ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 138 MPs. I must ask all the presidents of the parliamentary groups to consider in their parliamentary groups, in their parties, the most seriously, and address the problem of the lack of quorum, which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia faces on a daily basis. The National Assembly, you know very well, cannot in any way influence the work of the MPs, nor can it be regulated by the Rules of Procedure, nor by any decision of the Committee, either by the President of the Assembly. This is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the parties, to take care of the presence of MPs and the extent of responsibility with which they carry out their parliamentary duties. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to discuss this in the most serious way, within the parliamentary groups, and to assist the work of the National Assembly. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform that they will be absent from the following MPs: Višnja Nezić, Milos Radulović, Radomir Naumov, Milos Lukić, Neda Arnerić, Dusan Budisin, Slavoljub Matić, Vojislav Doshen, Goran Ćirić, Milos Radivojčević, Teodora Vlahović, Vasilija Pavicevic, Dragisa Djokovic, Dusan Golubović, Dragan Lazić, Dragan Sutanovac, Aleksandra Joksimović, Biaci Anton, Išpanovic Istvan, Predrag Bajčetic and Milorad Stanulov. The delay was announced by Predrag Stojanovic, a leave for the afternoon of Pal Shandor and Natasa Milojevic, and for the afternoon Boris Karaičić and Stanko Kovacevic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY LAW (the follow-up in particular) The 27th Amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He's got the word, Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already been in the general debate, and in the debate on the Law on Judges, we have discussed the same thing that we are currently talking about, so Article 27 and the introduction of so-called a personal list, which was accepted by the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as judges, and is now also proposed for public prosecutors. We then had a principled remark, and yesterday we pointed several times to a violation of the principle, relating to work fees and to the introduction of secondary legislation, that it greatly harms our legislation, that it is much better to codify or in one law to unite all norms of certain matter in any area. However, it seems to me that the legislators wanted at all costs and in every way to bring in a new mix-up, to make as much confusion as possible, in which few will manage. On the other hand, it is directly affecting the provisions of the Labour and Work Relations Act, as well as the work of the MUP, relating to citizens' records. On the side of all that is related to Article 28, which speaks of the contents of the personal list, in which the entry is even required, or the list of blood relatives in the right line, the slope line, up to the fourth degree of kinship and Tabin relatives in the right line, etc. There are some new files being used in who knows what ways, we don't know what reasons. It is absolutely amazing that someone is telling us that this represents some new democratic fluid or reform that needs to be implemented in the judiciary. We think this only goes into the norms of some other law. Of course, these will be applied, because they represent special norms, represent a back of specialis in relation to some other laws, but we believe that this should not be accepted and that it would be incomparable for the applicant to be such a member or these two members who are connected (I am talking about Art. 27 and 28.) In any case, they refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13621	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 122 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13622	I was just trying to point out the fact -- what does that have to do with a bill of law that contains a personal list? Let's try it that way to consider the provisions of this law. Perhaps the idea should ensure full expertise, complete purity, absolute personal competence and, at the same time, family purity so that someone could be a public prosecutor. On the side when those who have been illegally set up to this day could not be, but there is something else interesting here, which is - what is it going to be an impact, to come out of it, to explain to us, what it will do if one of his blood relatives in the slope line, up to the fourth degree of kinship, for example, was not worthy of that function (to use the term, because they do not like the term - reputation, but rather worthy, it is less laised and more professional, more turned to the legal public). To tell me what will then be the legal consequence, what kind of coincidences will it produce, because I'm guessing that this kind of contents of the personal list don't come out without any meaning, it doesn't go unnecessarily, so I'm asking myself a question -- what are the reasons, what are the motives? What kind of legal political conconsequences, what would happen to that man, if someone in this line of work didn't act the way the billmaker thought they should act or didn't do a certain kind of work, a certain kind of occupation. I think this is something that's completely illogical. Every man is responsible for his actions, for what he can do, for what he can do. My child can't be responsible for what I've done or my parents will be responsible for what I've done; they can be partially responsible by 18 years, but after that they can't. And it's funny in this way to deprive someone of his rights, guaranteed by the Constitution and in which no one can prevent him and in whom no one can contain him. I therefore call you once again to at least, if there are already personal sheets, by erasing this article, make the promoter do this matter in a different and more incomparably appropriate way. All that is said to contain a personal list, so name and last name, birth data, nationality, residence, so we have these data in the MUP. That data already exists and what now? We need to invent hot water again, so just for a certain kind of citizen, for a part of the citizens who will be dealing with the prosecution business or the judicial work, as we saw in the Judges' Law, there will be special records, special files, special personal papers, and they will have to depend on what kind of relatives there are in the third degree of kinship on the slope line, the Tazbin line, and I don't know which one, what was who doing it. I call on you to accept this amendment and thus to force the legislator to propose this in amendments and additions later on incomparably better, something that would not represent such problems and such difficulties and something that, I think, no one has counted on, and especially in view of the creation of secondary legislation that we have already talked about so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13623	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 22, against 141 abstentions, there were no votes, 6, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 127, against 28, a abstentioned one, was not voted on by 12, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 34th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Is the applicant of the amendment...? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 50, against 113, there were no abstentions, there were no 7, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 37. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 37 refers to the rights of public prosecutors to association. We had this same article in the Justice Act, and we also asked for its erasure, because we consider it inappropriate to function as public prosecutors. No association of public prosecutors, for the sake of alleged protection and their independence, is appropriate to their function, and their function is defined by the law and jurisdiction of the public prosecutor, but in Article 1 of this law - must be prosecuted by perpetrators of criminal acts, other criminal acts, safeguard constitutionality and legality, and take other actions to which the public prosecutor's office is authorized by law. They, like all other government workers, do not even have the right to strike. I am convinced that the promoter meant no association, such as the Association of Sports Fishermen or Rose Fans, but association with certain NGOs, alternative movements and so on, as we already have in practice when it comes to the Society of Judges, which is something we should not allow. Public prosecutors and judges have responsibility only to their country, or to the Assembly for what they are doing, because we have elected them to these functions and cannot seek any support from any other organisation, whose members would eventually be. It's possible that the proposer is thinking of something else, but in his explanation he didn't say anything but what is in this article, whose erasure I'm asking, they have the right to association. It should have been at least in an explanation to state what kind of association this is, in order to make it clearer, and this remains to be assumed, given the practice currently in Serbia government, where we also have cases where the Supreme Court judge, like Judge Ivosevic, had the strength and courage to go to a country abroad and to say that he was ashamed of being a judge in the Serbian state. This power has restored him to that post again, and it serves the honor of this authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13625	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and just before, when it came to the material independence of the public prosecutors, it was necessary to accept the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic, because that matter was regulated by another law, but it is obvious that we have decided to make special standards in each area, so who can handle it. Of the 50 laws that regulate someone's status, someone's position, someone's rights and obligations, you might find and see what they really need to do and how they do it. As for Article 37, when it comes to the right to association, the reasons for which we have already spoken are similar, when the same thing was foreseen for judges and judges' associations. I have to say, we have negative experiences with judges, and we have to do with the formation of so-called. The society of judges who showed how and how justice in our country should not and should not work. As the main in this society -- because it has the main word when it appears on television, not as a judge, but as a minister of the interior, as a public prosecutor, as president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, as President of the Constitutional Court -- a certain Ivosevic appears, and I don't know what he deserves. I guess he's in somebody's debt somewhere, so he decides to tell everyone what he wants and how he wants. He also assesses the work of the National Assembly, as does those who do and what are the legal proposals. It gets mixed up in everything and everything, so I wonder if that's what public prosecutors are like for us, what their associations look like. And not just what they're going to look like, but I'm asking a question -- and why they need such an association, because the public prosecutor's office is an independent state body. He works on the basis of the Constitution, the law according to his conscience. If he doesn't, he has to be relieved. I don't know what he's got to team up with and what he's got to team up with. He says in the second point, "They can take measures to protect and maintain their independence." What they're gonna do is buy baseball bats so they can fight or I don't know what they're gonna do, what they're gonna do. What's this about? Will a certain Ivosevic appear again, or I don't know who, who's going to go on TV and say - everyone in the Assembly has no brains, no brains, or I don't know what, only he's smart; then he says that it's an association above the Constitution, above the law, like the Society of Judges, who God forbids to say anything. Don't let anyone say anything to them, they'll immediately be attached to the lamppost, drawn as a target, so now beat and hit it as you know and know it. I don't understand why or why this is necessary, who needs this, what such an association would do. We don't have many prosecutors, we don't have many judges. If we have 3,000 judges (already 1,200 in the Society of Judges, who are protected as white bears, doing what they want in our country), then the question is, what is this going to look like, what is this going to turn out to be, or what would our people say is "what is it going to come on" if we do the same thing in the public prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13627	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 141 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Tomic submitted to the 39th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13628	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I would like you to pay attention to Article 39, because it is, in its contents, one of the essential members of this law and makes a significant distinction when it comes to the role of deputy attorney general. In the draft law, the public prosecutor's duties persist, and the deputy public prosecutor's office lasts for 8 years, as scheduled. The chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, which is very eloquent when it comes to telling who what, has tried to explain that it is a permanent function, limited by an 8-year-old. I didn't understand it at all, even though he's a college professor, I couldn't understand the reason for the perseverance. The amendment has a simple proposal, because I don't see how there's a difference between a public prosecutor and a public prosecutor's deputy. First, they do the same job, they apply the same rules and, above all, before the court councils, the public prosecutor's deputies are mostly sitting, and sometimes the prosecutor sits. Some times, the prosecutor and signed an indictment or indictment, mostly public prosecutor's deputies. So these are the highest-ranking state officials. And now that someone tells them they've been elected for eight years, and the public prosecutor has been elected uninterrupted, it means up to retirement, how we can determine absolute independence and continuity of function, and above all independence - independence in acting, in proposing, in the application of legal regulations. And how someone can explain to me when these top civil servants, who protect the state's interests, after eight years of losing that job, who will take them and where to take them into work. Let's make some kind of farming cooperative that everybody will go to together to find a way to live off something, because they worked those eight years for the state. I think the explanation of the Justice Committee, when it comes to the amendment to this article, is absolutely incompetent. Also, there's a story that the deputy public prosecutors aren't the same as the judges. It is not true either, because it is true that when it comes to senior civil servants, judges, prosecutors and deputies, they are absolutely in the same rank, with the same kind of work and on the same mission. There's no difference. Here, my colleague says it's not true. I invite you to come out, colleague Katic, and explain what is not true. Come out and explain. Because we're going to make one piece of a hearing aid here, and it's the essential engine of the state, and it's supposed to preserve the state, that's to preserve the rule of law, which everyone's been talking about these days, condemning, judging, making polls. How someone who is a deputy public prosecutor, who is limited to doing the job for 8 years, will be a permanent civil servant, when after four or five years he has to start thinking, courting someone or simply leaving the profession; because it is not known about us, how prices change, and when political parties change on a political scene, then these people find themselves politically inadequate. If we have elected public prosecutors, as politically similar people and particularly professional to do certain jobs, and they must be given opinions by independent or some kind of NGO, or the media should say who they are and what they are. How those who are deputies as civil servants will feel in that situation, when after five years they come into a situation and start to think, what will happen to their function, or their work. Therefore, I think that this amendment is absolutely meaningful, absolutely safeguarding the independence of the public prosecutor's office in every respect and also providing exactly what is the intensity of this law - to preserve the absolute independence of the judiciary and the public prosecutorial functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13629	Mr. Mamula, vice president of the Committee, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13630	Since the draft law on the High Council of Justice has been adopted, all amendments to the draft Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office are subject to Articles 39, 40, 42, 43, 48, 49, 50, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 65, 66, 67, 71, 73, 75, 78 and 93 are contrary to the Law on the High Council of Justice. That's why the order of the law was, of course, understood, so congratulations on your efficiency.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13631	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13632	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, for the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, there are a few amendments to which, possibly, adoption or non-adoptment will depend on our relationship with the vote on the draft law in general. We are also in the debate in principle, when we supported these laws, cited what areas these are. In this law, the draft law on the public prosecutor's office, that is certainly the amendment. We had encouragement after discussions on committees, where these amendments were accepted to a good extent. For us, this amendment to Article 39, which equalises the position of deputy public prosecutors with public prosecutors, is extremely important, and that it is not only important for us but also for the profession itself, the letter that we received as a parliamentary group, I hope other parliamentary groups in this House, which was delivered by the District Attorney of Belgrade and the Public Prosecutors of First, Second, Third, Fourth and Fifth Prosecutors in Belgrade, in which they, as a profession and directly interested, made objections to the bill. Among other things, they also advocated equalising the position of deputy public prosecutors with public prosecutors. In addition to this argument, some movements in European legislation, including international law, have been cited. Thus, they stated that the International Criminal Court's position is equal to that of judges, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, and that they are all elected by the General Assembly of the United Nations, with a mandate established and by the same professional criteria. They also cited examples from neighbouring countries' practices -- Republika Srpska, as well as the Muslim-Croatian Federation, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, where the situation is evened. They believe, like us, that the continued function of the deputy public prosecutors is one of the currents of this state, which we do not need to give up so easily. We do not see why the proponent is persistent in insisting that the deputies be separated by being appointed by the High Council of Justice, which is before the basic argument made by my esteemed colleague Tomic, that it is a category or part of the public prosecutor's body that carries the job. Public prosecutors certainly bear responsibility for organ function, but deputies are the ones carrying the job. We have no reason to degrade them by making their choice a different solution. If this amendment is not accepted, or at least the amendments that go after it to be some kind of re-election, check them for eight years, which we can compromise and accept, but still be chosen by the National Assembly, as well as by prosecutors, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, we will not be in a position to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13633	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13634	Happy Bogdanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... Mr. Bogdanovic is always happy. After 10 a.m., no one can disrupt his joy. I need to point out a few things about this amendment and a few facts. In fact, it seems clear to us that the applicant's intention to achieve this detachment of the deputy public prosecutor from the public prosecutor's office -- and to remind you, the deputy public prosecutor has the same status, the same authority as the public prosecutor. By naming him for eight years and being re-elected in fact is the intention that there is clear political control. The moment the authorities don't like it, the moment the authorities estimate that the function isn't done in a satisfactory way, in its interest, they can go political -- legal blackmail, you can say -- if you don't listen, if you don't act that way, you won't be a deputy public prosecutor anymore. Otherwise, I don't understand the second argument. What Mr. Tomic put out is quite true. But I have one question. We had the same thing in the Law on the High Council of Justice, where the High Council of Justice chooses the deputies of public prosecutors in this way, and you were in favour of that law. That's what I find illogical about it. But in any case, it's not true that it can't be accepted as an amendment. Well, what if it were different from what was provided for by the High Council of Justice? The promoter and the others would have an obligation to coordinate. It would be better to coordinate for the better, not to coordinate to the worse. I'd like to point out something else, regarding the mere declaration of the committee's representative, Mr. Mamula, who was speaking. We already had an example here of the amendments of the Justice Committee itself, at a time when the Justice Committee had no right to do so. I would point to absolute illegality, especially in the light of Article 142. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Because it is so illegal to act (although the Rules of Procedure are a sublegal act, but it cannot be violated, it is illegal, sanctions are the same as when it comes to the law), there is nothing left for us, since in this assembly, it is obvious that we cannot find someone who would protect the legality, who would protect constitutionality, I am quite certain that the only solution is to file criminal charges against those who are responsible for such brutal mistreatment of the law, for this brutal behaviour of certain people in the National Assembly, especially those who are most responsible, headed by the President of the National Assembly, that what cannot be on the agenda, that it becomes even an integral part of the law. This is precisely why I call once again to vote for this amendment, for the simple reason that at least we will provide someone with greater independence in doing the job. It's not an independent state body, it's an independent state body. But in order to be able to function as an independent state body, it is necessary, in any case, to have the permanent function of the deputy public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13635	The word has a folk MP Dragan Tomic (Replica). )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13636	Just to remind you, when the debate was held yesterday in particular about the proposal for a High Council of Justice bill, we have given an amendment to Article 1 of this proposal and we have asked that the words "named judges of jurors and deputy public prosecutors" be deleted in Article 1. In line with this proposal, Article 39 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the EEA Agreement’), the European Economic Area (‘the EEA The Law on Public Prosecutors, we want to take away the power of the High Council of Justice to appoint deputy public prosecutors, but only to propose them. We think that the deputy public prosecutors should also be named in this highest house, because by power, by function, by what they do, they're absolutely the same with the public prosecutor. There's no difference. So, according to that, just for the sake of correcting all this, we've been to this amendment. Obviously, two concepts are now being considered. It can be corrected, but it seems to me that a more drastic mistake would be made if we failed to do this now, because we're going to lose what the promoters have advocated - for the continuity, independence and independence of the public prosecutor's office. This is where you get lost, and I agree with my colleague Vukic, the independence of the public prosecutor's office when it comes to the deputy attorney general.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13637	The word is Mr. Michaels, the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13638	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to give my contribution to the debate on whether the deputy public prosecutors should or should not be permanent, whether this should be found in this law and whether, by law, we are now discussing it, since we believe that these amendments, by adopting the Law on the High Council of Justice, have become legally impossible. We must not and should not associate independence with continuity because these are not the same things. The concepts of independence are completely separate, and so is the one that is not permanent, which is re-election, and these are separate things and should not be tied together. These are two different principles and we hereby establish the principle of independence in the exercise of office, continuity for public prosecutors and re-election for deputy public prosecutors. That's three different things. Of course, deputy attorneys are also appointed, and this is done by the High Council of Justice, as we adopted yesterday the draft law on the High Council of Justice. Unfortunately, it's a fact and in this case we can't fight it. The Justice and Administration Committee also pleaded in favour of the re-election of deputies and appointments of the deputy public prosecutor, and the Committee had a debate on this, rather argumentative, anyway, as here, but we felt that in this situation it was better for the prosecution itself to make the deputies re-election. First, the public prosecutor is an incoherent, or a monocrat, and if we follow the principle of monocrat, we will see that this body is primarily referred to as a public prosecutor and that his deputies, regardless of their procedural equality with the public prosecutor, are not statusual, which I was talking about yesterday; the public prosecutor can give orders on how to do what, can take the case of the deputy public prosecutor and simply says that these two bodies are absolutely not the same. When a deputy public prosecutor performs, he is the same as a public prosecutor in court and he can take all the actions, but, speaking hierarchically, there is absolutely no equality in the rights and obligations of the public prosecutor and his deputy. We are guided by these principles, primarily by the principles of the professional public, because Professor Momcilo Grubač, who has certainly analysed these laws, has his own opinion in the construction of both criminal and procedural law, which speaks of the fact that the only real solution is that the deputy public prosecutors are re-election, that they have an eight-year term and that only makes it more effective to perform the prosecutor's office. So, we think that we need to support and stay on this solution, precisely because it is guaranteed by a better and more efficient performance of this function and more responsible work. Eight years is not a small period, not a period that can give birth to uncertainty with the deputy public prosecutor, especially since his re-election and appointment is not decided by the political body, but by the professional body, which is the High Council of Justice (compared to four to three for experts compared to these others) and it is in favour of the fact that re-election should be maintained, especially as it will take care of expertise, quality of work and above all the results of work and responsibility for what was done, and not something else. That is why we do not see an obstacle for eight years, which is a long period, to remain as a proposal, or to vote as a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13639	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Just to let you know that Mr. Mamula's opinion, as vice-president of the Board of Administration and Justice, can only be taken to the knowledge of the assessment of whether amendments to the Law on the High Council of Justice, some of the amendments he has stated are legally possible or not, because we do not have an official position of the Legislative Committee, which has fallen asleep a little bit, because it is obvious that he should have had a session and assess the new circumstances. So I will continue to inform you of their official position which has been submitted so far, if possible; after these remarks, it does not actually stand anymore, but it is my duty to read what I have officially delivered by the Legislative Committee. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted 12, a total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Tomic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13640	Gentlemen, when it comes to a member of the 40th, he is characteristic of another position, and he says in a sign, the effect of the change in the regulation of the public prosecutor's office. With this amendment, we made our comment on paragraph 2 which reads in the law: "If the public prosecutor's office is abolished, the public prosecutor shall continue his duties in accordance with the decision of the High Council of Justice. "We asked the question through the amendment - what happens to the deputy public prosecutors. Do they disappear like smoke, stop existing, lose jobs, what happens to them? Because, you know, both prosecutors and deputies work in the public prosecutor's office. It seems to me that this is a bit of a literal mistake and that here the Committee on Justice and Administration was careless when he rejected this amendment, to add beyond the word "public prosecutor" and "prosecutors of the public prosecutor". Because if the public prosecutor's office keeps working, and he's sure to continue for a while until he clears up cases, disputes, and what happened during his work until the end, because that matter can't just be interrupted, and it disappears from legal traffic, what happens to people who are deputy public prosecutor. It seems to me that this amendment has been unwarranted here, as well as the previous one, and that the counterarguments that have been exposed, seem to me, are not well-founded when it comes to Article 39, and especially when it comes to this Article of the 40th Law, especially when it comes to the position of the 2nd Law, which is referred to as the deputy public prosecutor. I must remind again - there is no difference between public prosecutors and deputies and responsibility, there is no difference in business and the main burden of public prosecutorial office in each prosecution is borne by deputies. It is known that there are over 30 and some deputy public prosecutors in the Belgrade District Court alone. By adopting a previous member, you've put them in a position to think about what they're going to do for the next five, six or seven years, or whether they're going to continue to do that job at all or leave this institution. We didn't keep with this what it is by wearing a skeleton of a public prosecutor's office, and that's the deputies, and what they're doing. It seems to me that this article in 40 has also made a certain mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13641	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13642	This amendment would make sense if the previous one had been adopted, that they had continuity. The point is that they are not related, but we should bear in mind the fact that the High Council of Justice appoints deputy public prosecutor and is presumed if we adopt that the public prosecutor entrusts certain tasks to deputies, that he is the one who is their superior. There is no question of who will make decisions regarding their deployment, because it is logical that whoever appoints them, and that is the High Council of Justice, if there is a breakdown of a particular public prosecutor's office, is also responsible for their deployment. So this amendment would only make sense that the Assembly chooses them and that they are permanent, so that a special obligation is foreseen. But it's simply unnecessary, because it's already the High Council of Justice who appoints them, he can deploy them from one prosecution to another if they're scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13643	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 58, against 109, one abstention, was not voted 15, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the draft law on the public prosecutor's office, there's something going on that's not just confusion and confusion, but a mess that's being brought into this bill and playing with the deputy public prosecutors. We can't hear from the promoter in which category and where he places the deputy public prosecutors. If we have repeatedly potentiated yesterday at the adoption of the Law on the High Council of Justice, that absolutely the same authority, the same procedural, same material responsibility as the public prosecutors have, if the deputy public prosecutors have immunity as the public prosecutors do, then the question is why is the bill so cruelly playing with the role of deputy public prosecutors. The question is, what's going to happen next to these people, and by article 40 and to the public prosecutors themselves. Whether or not the proposer will use this proposal to create an opportunity for someone, including the minister of justice, to play with them as ping-pong balls, to deploy them according to his personal opinion, according to a political group, where he thinks of them. It says here that the deputy public prosecutor continues his duties if the number of deputies in the public prosecutor's office is reduced. One question is now being raised for the promoter - who is making a decision on where the deputy public prosecutor continues his duty. That doesn't even stand here. The second is said that if the public prosecutor's office is abolished, the public prosecutor continues his duties as a follow-up to the High Council of Justice's decision. As I said yesterday, the whole law, which is confirmed today by the motionor and some of the MPs who support this bill, is based on the law voted on by the High Council of Justice, which is opposed to the SRS. Now I ask you a question - how is it possible for you to move the public prosecutor to another place, when we have chosen him, and in the future, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will choose him, for this prosecutor's office, who will make the decision and what a possibility it is and what a comfort you give yourself for the right of such a bill, especially in Article 40. That's why I invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13645	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 101, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 41 refers to a distance from the public prosecutor's office and defines the reasons for the distance. In the first position, the public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor are said to be removed from office when they are ordered to be detained. That's just fine. Article 2, however, uses a term that is inappropriate for the law, which is: "I can be removed from duty when a procedure for their resolution or a criminal procedure for an act that may be resolved. "I believe this term leaves the possibility of additional pressure on public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. He needs to be changed. In this regard, I have made an amendment that this position 2 reads as follows: "until the end of the proceedings for their resolution or the end of the criminal proceedings, they are vacated from their duties". If we follow the following members behind this article 41, we will see that Article 42, when this alternative distance is provided for, means if it is not mandatory, the decision is made by a republican public prosecutor, and if it is a republican public prosecutor, the minister responsible for the judiciary. Article 44 again says that the High Council of Justice has made this decision on distance, so directly by a senior public prosecutor or a republican public prosecutor or minister of justice (if it is a republican public prosecutor), can be abolished before the resolution procedure is completed. Now you can see whose claws are, say, one public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor as long as the proceedings are pending for his resolution, or you need a criminal trial. During this one period, because of all of these that depend on the decision of his fate, so whether he will be resolved or not, that there will be a further criminal procedure for the reasons that he has been initiated, if he continues to do what he needs to do under the law, he is in a position to do what he is told or to do. He becomes a blind listener to those who decide about him. This is where the independence of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors is lost. Therefore, I ask you to pay attention to this term, that I may be distant and that it should be deleted from the law as an alternative. If a person is being prosecuted, when it comes to resolution or criminal proceedings, he must do so in the meantime until the procedure is completed to be out of function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13647	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 41, which speaks of distance with duty and reason for distance, I think the amendment of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic is something that all MPs should accept. I'm sure the promoter will accept that. I am convinced, because this amendment in an incomparably more precise manner determines the reasons and moment of distance from duty, as well as the possible return to duty, rather than the proposal for a law or the position of Article 2 41. Namely, they are said to be remote, so they can be removed from duty when the procedure is launched. Once again, discretionary authority or right, the possibility of arbitrary behavior, someone will be, and someone won't be, can, doesn't have to. So we don't know that either. There is another very great danger, that this would not be more restrictive, which is - the moment he is away from duty (when a procedure for his resolution or a criminal act for which he can be resolved), if there is no resolution, there is no clear and precise provision that he will continue to carry out his duty. It is something that is clearly made clear by amendment of Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic. The moment the proceedings are carried out, he steps away from duty, the moment when there is no resolution, because the proceedings are suspended, the acquittal or any other reason, the man returns to his duty. It seems to me that the norm is incomparably more precise than the norm put forward by the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13649	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 42nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, against 101, a abstentioned one, was not voted 27, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word Mr. Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13650	Dear fellow Members of the People, I will use this time to explain this next amendment to Article 43 because they are conditioned and bound together. Article 42. The bill, paragraph 3, on which I tabled the amendment, reads: "The distance of the republican public prosecutor is decided by the minister in charge of the judiciary. "So we have submitted one set of amendments, related to the intrusion and influence of the executive authority in the public prosecutor's office, which we have proposed to amend, so that according to the amendment on the distance of the republican public prosecutor, the High Council of Justice should decide (and according to us). If we have already formed this institution, which cares about both status and other issues related to the judiciary and the public prosecutor's office, then it is logical that these issues, which are related to distance, which are not harmless, are decided by the same body, means the High Council of Justice. With this in mind, as the promoter sought to secure two-stageness, he gave the right to object to that decision on distance, and this to the High Council of Justice. So, if this amendment is accepted, that in the first degree, the High Council of Justice decides on a distance, then there is no logic in maintaining two degrees and it is necessary to erase the possibility of objecting to a decision on distance. I hope that the Assembly will also accept the position of the Committee on Justice, which has adopted both this and the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13651	He has the word Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13652	This amendment belongs to a group of those amendments which were legally possible until the Law on the High Council of Justice has been adopted. Starting with the fact that all the Constitution guarantees the right to two-stage in the process, by adopting the amendments, as you predicted - to explain why it might not be good even if this amendment could be adopted - to place the High Council of Justice instead of the Minister of Justice - would be denied the right of the prosecutor who is moving away to have the right to appeal. Because the first-degree procedure is for the minister to make a decision on distance. In the next article, as you said, the public prosecutor has the right to object to the High Council of Justice within three days, and the High Council of Justice in the extended composition, meaning that no executive body - the minister of justice is involved, makes a decision whether or not there will be a distance. So, starting with the Constitution that, simply, everyone has the right to appeal for a decision, we've anticipated two degrees here, so it's the minister of justice who decides in the first degree, and in the second degree the senior body decides, and in the non-justice system. This is what I am saying to make an argument in relation to the fact that this amendment is legally possible, but by adopting the Law on the High Council of Justice, this amendment, as such, is legally impossible. This one and the next one. If we talk about the essence of the proposals themselves, the solution to the two-stage and guarantee by the Constitution of the guaranteed right to the two-stage procedure, is more comprehensive at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13653	The word is Mr. Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13654	I would say something only about one thesis, which was presented by the proposer's representative, in order that the possible acceptance of this amendment would be legally impossible, because of the solutions we adopted in the adoption of the Law on the High Council of Justice. This does not correspond to the truth, given that in Article 1. The draft law on the High Council of Justice, which we adopted yesterday, reads: "The High Council of Justice is being established. He is proposing to the National Assembly the presidents of the courts, judges and public prosecutors, appoints judges as jurors and deputy public prosecutors and exercises other jurisdictional powers under a certain law. "Right now, this law determines the second jurisdiction of the High Council for Justice, so that from the aspect of the disagreement of the two laws, that argument cannot stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13655	It's clear things, I think we can approach the vote, with these things that have happened now and the circumstances changing, we have the old opinion of the Committee in changed circumstances, so I'm going to ask the Proposer to make himself clear every time, at least from place. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 70, against 72, abstention five, he did not vote 31, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted to Article 43, in the same text, by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? (Employer Zoran D. Nikolic quits, and Alexander Vukic doesn't give up.) ) Due to these circumstances, I will constantly ask for the position of the applicant. If no one calls for a word, I'll put the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 100, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken by 31, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We don't have a quorum. ) Can I interpret this as a requirement to determine the quorum? Please determine the quorum. You can see these ghosts don't put in cards. I am taking a break until 12.30 p.m. and inviting the presidents or vice presidents of the parliamentary groups, those six from the formerly joint DOS parliamentary group, to my office. [[After a break.]] Please determine if we have a quorum to continue the work of the National Assembly. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The amendment to article 44 was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 26, against 107, there were no abstentions, there was no 18 vote, a total of 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop - Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, a total of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 46th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13657	For those MPs who have not been notified of any law on the agenda, I must say again, if they had amendments in front of them it would be a miracle, this amendment requires that Article 46 be deleted. In order to have about any relationship with what is going on at the congregation speaker and what the promoter was going to say, I will read to you what Article 46 reads. The bill: "A public prosecutor and deputy may, without their own consent, be referred to another public prosecutor's office of the same or lower rank, for the longest period of nine months in two calendar years." Another point: "They are referred to the public prosecutor's office whose needs call for it." The third position: "The decision to refer is made by a republican public prosecutor". An hour ago, we discussed the amendment and Article 42, in which the freedom of Prime Minister Vladan Batić was given until the end to do whatever he wanted with his haughtiness, to get rid of how the republican public prosecutor is wanted, and here some compensation is given to the republican public prosecutor for what Vladan Batic intends to do to him, and it is said that he can move the public prosecutors without their consent and thus punish them worst. This is how only communists in Broz's time punished people without their consent, sent them to Goli Island, with you here predicting how time-consuming this punishment will be - two calendar years. When you said that and wrote it in the bill of law, you should have said, gentlemen, what is it that this public prosecutor, who, by the punishment of the Republic Public Prosecutor, is going to send from Kragujevac to Uzica, to support two calendar years, where he will live, where his family, where his children will go to school, what is going to happen to him and why such a rigorous punishment. Which is why such authority, as given to the Minister of Justice in Article 42, is in Article 46 for the Republic Public Prosecutor. Of course, you have no valid answer to that question. You will now say - so if deleted, as MP Natasa Jovanovic asks, a member of the 46th will be questioned by the whole law. The question is whether or not such a member was needed and whether this is the way the public prosecutor's office should be arranged in our country at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13658	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why do I think it would be good to accept this amendment? It would be good to accept it for the simple reason that it is again in a strange way limiting itself in its authorities, in its prerogatives, and in its ingenuities, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, we are those who, even formally, are elected by the High Council of Justice, we elect public prosecutors, but then we are not given the right to, therefore, the competent Committee on Justice and Administration or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make a decision on their referral, this right is not even given to the High Council of Justice which you have done under the previous law, but is given to the Republic Public Prosecutor. We here when we choose, we choose for a particular public prosecutor's office. If we want someone else elected to another prosecution, the Assembly is in charge, the Assembly is authorized to elect someone else for the aforementioned prosecution. It does not have to do so by any High Council of Justice, and especially by a republican public prosecutor, as foreseen by this norm. Secondly, it seems to me, as far as the law itself is concerned, that it would not mind, even your key provisions would not be touched if you accepted this amendment. You'd be left with the norms and the transfer provisions. So, it would only change the reference and I'm counting on the proposing to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13660	Mr. Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13661	First of all, transfer and reference are different concepts and cannot be interpreted the same. As far as reference is concerned, it is said that it is not a punishment, it is nothing else, when needs require it and do not refer to two years; and if a member is read, as it is to be read, it is well written that it is the longest nine months of two calendar years. That's the fact itself - if there is a disturbance in the work of a prosecutor's office, if one part of it gets sick, the majority of the deputy public prosecutors, if there is an increase in the size of the work while the Assembly, let's say, is unable to respond to a new prosecutor, we are in a position to refer someone to that work there. It is known that profits are regulated, that other things are regulated by this law, that there is a possibility to increase, especially because of the difficult circumstances in which it is done, and again the High Council of Justice in the enlarged system. It means that this provision should exist to allow the prosecution's uninterrupted work in some emergency situations, so that citizens and even the state can protect their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13662	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 5, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 47th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tried to amend the further humiliation of the prosecutorial post provided for by some of the provisions of this law and, for example, to prevent you from drastically breaking the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 3 and Article 13. Article 3 says: "The constitution guarantees and recognises the personal, political, national, economic, social, cultural and other rights of man and citizen. "Article 13 says: "Citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political or other belief." You have provided for Article 47 that the judge, the public prosecutor and the deputy may not be members of the political party. This prevents and violates fundamental human rights, and nothing proves that membership in a political party is immoral, unconscious, disrespect for duty. I think it is much more acceptable for a public prosecutor and deputy not to be officials and prominent political party activists, and whether it will be in one political party, you cannot forbid them, because the Constitution, a member of 100 concerning Judges and a member of the 105 public prosecutors, says that a public prosecutor cannot carry out a service or a job legally established as incompatible with his office. Why can't a judge be a member of a political party? If you're so rigorous about civil servants, then why can university professors be members of a political party? Why can ambassadors be members of a political party? Why can state journalists be members of a political party? It takes people everywhere to represent the state, objectivity. How come only public prosecutors and judges can't be members of a political party? For God's sake, they'll use it in their business. Shouldn't university professors and primary school teachers use it in their work, and whether university professors actually lectured more than once, and didn't pay attention to what they were supposed to do that day. It cannot be said that the republican public prosecutor will prescribe what procedures are contrary to the dignity and independence of the public prosecutor. It's gotta be the law. All that you forbid to a public prosecutor or judge (but that judge law has passed) must be prescribed by law, there can be no solution to him directly by a superior authority, because he is independent in the performance of his duty, and if someone thinks that something is incompatible with the judicial function, it must be explicitly determined by law. He's not a tape worker, so the brigade determines whether he was wrong when he was doing the job or not. It's a very responsible function. I remind you that yesterday, the federal constitutional court decided that the federal government's extradition regulation for Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague was unconstitutional. This means that the Republic Government Regulation is unconstitutional and that means that the public prosecutor today has to file a criminal complaint against all those involved in the adoption of the regulation and those who have implemented the regulation, by function, under the task given to him by the Public Prosecutor's Law. And I, as a savestan citizen, here's to help Serbia's MUP: I happen to have seen a photo-robot in News, someone suspected of killing Slavko Curuvija. I recognized Alexander Radovic, director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration here. I have footage from Republika Srpska when he harassed the Serbian people, which is about like that, and I call on journalists to send me photos of Aleksandar Radovic to make sure I'm right or wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13664	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment, which has nothing to do with Aleksandar Radovic? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 114, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubisa Maravić submitted to the 48th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13665	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 48 concerns the decision-making process on the incompatibility and duty of notifying public prosecutors in case they perform a service or a job which is likely to be incompatible with its duty. I wonder if the public prosecutors will look at the Bob what it is that could possibly be contrary and incompatible with their function and when it will be the republican public prosecutor, whom you have put in charge, to determine (not by any act, not by any means, not even by the time) that these jobs are done. The Constitution strictly obliges us to do so by law. We're not our own now to pass it on to the DA. It should be incorporated into this law, as well as the Law on Judges, which has already been passed and cannot be intervened at present on this matter, but it should be incorporated into the law and not left to the public prosecutor to decide. Article 48(2) states: "The public prosecutor shall inform the chief public prosecutor directly of his service or of his business, and the republican public prosecutor shall inform the minister responsible for the judiciary. "How come the Minister of Justice here now to be in charge of something like this and to interfere with the prosecution's business? He absolutely doesn't belong there. It's a completely inconsistencies law in that sense where all the Justice Ministers can intervene. If you had put in, in accordance with this phantom law that we have received, the Law on the High Council of Justice, that he decides on it, I could still understand the logic of the motionor's thinking. Like this, not at all. That concept, which could possibly only be acceptable, is to notify the Assembly's competent committee, because the Assembly still appoints a republican public prosecutor under these laws. In that regard, I asked for the jurisdiction of the Justice Minister, the Minister of Justice, to be excluded here, and for the obligation to be on the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13666	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 118, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 15, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Ruzic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13667	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, first of all, I would like to say that in Article 49(2) of the Law, the Minister in charge of the Justice Department is acting and handling the decision-making process on whether other services, affairs or procedures are incompatible with the duties of the Republic's public prosecutor. The amendment that I have submitted, which was adopted by the Committee on Justice and Administration, defines that, instead of the Minister of Justice, the High Council of Justice decides whether other services, affairs or procedures are incompatible with the duty of the Republic's public prosecutor, since, if this decision is left to the minister responsible for the judiciary, it practically implies the interference of the executive authority in the work of the prosecution. Respecting the constitutional position of the public prosecutor's office as an independent body, it is more appropriate that the High Council of Justice decides on incompatibility with the duty of the republican public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13668	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13669	And this is one of the amendments that belongs to a group of legally impossible in this situation, because Article 13 is Article 2. The Law on the High Council of Justice provides for the two-stage procedure, i.e. the High Council of Justice, to decide on an objection to a certain extent by the minister of justice, so that it is already regulated. In this way, it may be possible to deny the constitutional right to the two-stage procedure, provided that the High Council of Justice decides in both the first and second stages. So there would be no possibility of objecting to that decision. Essentially, and formally impossible, because the Law on the High Council of Justice has already been passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13670	I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 54, against 119, two abstentions, were not voted 11, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 49. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13671	It would be a good idea if whoever signed this act to which these draft laws were sent provided the equality of all the positive regulations, and not only to warn us that yesterday we passed some law disagreed with today's amendments to some other law, but to tell us why he did not warn us when these laws were adopted yesterday, that they were contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When we passed the Law under which a High Council of Justice proposes judges to us, which did not say that it was not in line with the provisions concerning the Assembly's Justice Committee, which is responsible for proposing the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions. That should be said to the MPs because the Rules of Procedure, which is still in force, is dissuading. So I'm interested, when tomorrow's proposal comes to you from the High Council for Justice, whether it will be rejected, because we have to propose a Justice Committee, that is, how could anyone who was so smart as to write five laws not have been able to pass through the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so as to clear out the provisions of particular Article. Article 49(2) - on who proposes the choice of judges, republican public prosecutor and other officials laid down by law. But Article 49, which I have submitted to the amendment, paragraph 2, reads: "The minister responsible for the judiciary is initiating and leading the decision-making process on whether other services, affairs or procedures are incompatible with the duties of the Republic's public prosecutor. "Where does the minister in charge of justice work come from now? Why the minister when we have the assembly board, the same committee that suggested the public prosecutor. Well, I guess, when he got the information that he could be a prosecutor, he needed the data now so he couldn't, because if he had to be relieved, the National Assembly would let him go, and the National Assembly would have to propose to her the Justice and Management Committee. I am convinced that the National Assembly will never allow itself to be humiliated to eliminate its congregation committee. Because when there is no assembly board, when the material directly arrives at the National Assembly, then something in the state is wrong, then something is wrong. Even the government, the executive body, has its own committees that process her material and suggest whether she adopts it or not. And you people are forcing the National Assembly, without the opinion of its expert committee, to make some decisions concerning the work of the National Assembly, such as the choice of a republican public prosecutor. The work of the National Assembly is based on the proposal of the minister, the interpretation of the minister chosen by the National Assembly. You are fully putting the National Assembly under the authority of the executive authority, under the authority of the executive authority. Think about how you'll stay remembered as the people who passed the laws. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, while it's time, and I recommend these credentials that they discuss this with me in private.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13672	Anybody else answer for a word? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13673	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, four members are dealing with the problem of incompatibility and the duties of the attorney general and the deputy public prosecutor with other services, affairs and procedures. This is referred to in Article 47, and then in Article 48, we have the decision-making process, and in Article 49, who is initiating the procedure. We've already responded to this amendment. And this last member of the 50th is talking about what's the consequence of a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor doing some work that's incompatible with his job. The consequences are practically gone. Because Article 50 says, "At the same time as determining incompatibility (and we said who determines it - a Republic public prosecutor or minister of justice), a warning measure, which is entered in the personal list, can be given." So, what's the penalty here now? There's no sanctions. It's one legal void, and only for that reason should we absolutely erase this whole chapter from the law. Now, that decision is allowed to be objected to by the High Judicial Council even though it did not decide at all, and the public prosecutor and deputy may ordinarily expose their claims either by themselves or through the MPs. It would be necessary if you want to keep this chapter that speaks of incompatibility at all, to precisely define what a sanction is if someone performs a duty that is incompatible with that function. Because this is just how it goes in that record that the minister of justice keeps and that one day he can, like a ace out of his sleeve, pull out and tell that public prosecutor or the deputy public prosecutor -- yeah, you did that and you didn't have any consequences, that could be a reason to get rid of you later on for something else and you're gonna listen and do what Vladan Batic says. The law here clearly regulates when their duty ceases and does not mention any incompatibility of functions. He says the D.A.'s office ends at his request, when he ends his working life or when he's relieved. And Article 69 sets out the reasons for the resolution and does not mention the compatibility of functions at all. I think the amendment is perfectly logical, that this is one legal void, where there's no point in having this whole chapter exist in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13674	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8, a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 50th and the title of the amendment were submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote 17, a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 52nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday, during a debate on the Law on the High Council of Justice, we had an objection to a member who said that the High Council of Justice could determine compensations for judges of jurors and for permanent members of the High Council of Justice, in fact, he made a proposal, and then the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decided on how much compensation these compensations would be. However, here is a strange graduation and an opportunity to reward obediently in Article 52, similar, those who will carry out the tasks of a majority group of current authorities. It is said that the High Council of Justice can, depending on the scope and complexity of the affairs, decide that some public prosecutor has a basic salary equal to the judge's basic salary directly to the high court, and then that the basic salary of the deputy public prosecutor is lower by 7% than the general salary of the public prosecutor. This phantom body, the High Council of Justice, has almost been inserted into every member of the Public Prosecutor's Law proposal, has been given too much authority. And worst of all, this article in 52 is too high, because the Law on Salary in State Authorities, and we talked about it yesterday during the debate on the Law on Judges, is precisely defined how many salaries can be employed by state authorities. Therefore, it is pointless to define it in this way and in this way. That is why I urge you to accept the amendment to Article 52, which requires that this article be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13676	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 122, there were no abstentions, there was no 7. A total of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 115, there were no abstentions, no vote was made 21, a total of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic, the Committee on Justice and Administration, who did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 116, the abstentioned one, did not vote 15, a total of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government has accepted the amendment. That's when the amendment became part of the bill. The 55th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted amendments to each of these members of the law relating to the material position of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, believing that it is not the place for these provisions in this law because we have the Law on the salaries of employees in the state authorities. If you wanted to improve the position of public prosecutors and judges, and when we talked about the Law on Judges, it was necessary to intervene in such a way as to propose an amendment to the Law on Salaries of Public Authorities. That would be one normal way, if we essentially wanted some legal logic to respect and regulate legislation properly. However, the very provision of article 55 is so unacceptable for anyone who understands legal norms, that I, above all, went out for a pay phone, to show you how unequivocal this law, which is full of contradiction. Article 55 reads: "The introduction of a supplement on the court's salary at the same time introduces a supplement on the salary of public prosecutors and deputies". What difference does it make? I believe it was your logic to think and introduce this legal norm. Why do you have to tell the law now, because we did it and we gave it to the judges, and now we want to give it to the prosecutors? Simply, it could be said, public prosecutors have the right to an allowance. It's like little Perica was writing the law, it looks like. You have heard our reasons for considering the provisions concerning the material position of the judges. You have now heard all of our arguments, which are primarily motivated by some legal clarity and building legislation that would mean some progress. This is not motivated by the fact that we do not want public prosecutors or judges to have a better material position. Of course we want to, but let's sort it out where we need to go. Not always some back specialis - there is, how we started to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13678	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 121 abstentions 28, 8 voted, a total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members 56, 57, 58, 61 and 66 of the amendment, respectively, were submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13679	Ladies and gentlemen, in chapter IV, the title is "choice and appointment." In accordance with our commitment to equate the status of the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor, we have proposed in Article 1(2). A law on the High Council of Justice against the right of the High Council of Justice to appoint deputy public prosecutor. In order not to explain in detail the essence of this proposal, since there has already been a lot of talk about it, I would just like to point out that the appointment of something that is really, in our opinion, inappropriate to one body such as the High Council of Justice, and that the National Assembly should also elect the deputy public prosecutor, as well as the public prosecutor himself. So my amendment refers to erasing all appointment positions in Chapter IV, and regarding that proposal and the same idea are my next amendments. I hope you will respond to this amendment as well as in the previous four cases, when you had the understanding of the argument that I presented to you, as the most responsible body in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13680	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Mr. Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13681	I would just like to say that this amendment has become legally impossible, by adopting the Law on the High Council of Justice, because Article 1 says it is regulated: Deputy Prosecutors are appointed by the High Council of Justice; and this, as are amendments submitted to the article. 56, 57 and 58, and beyond that, legally impossible, precisely because of a member who regulates the deputy public prosecutor to appoint the High Council of Justice. We adopted this, so for these reasons these amendments are legally impossible and contrary to the existing law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13682	Anyone else want a word? He's got the word, Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to say something about the motional's statement, Mr. Michael, who said none of these amendments could be accepted, for the simple reason that it would be contrary to the previously passed law, in this case, the Law on the High Council of Justice. I must say that we have already adopted norms, passed laws that contain provisions that are contrary to some other laws, but are interpreted as special norms, special provisions, and as such derivated general norms that existed in some other laws. The law regulates the position of the public prosecutor, therefore, of the public prosecutor, and it is a special law in relation to any other law regulating the place, role, status, position of the public prosecutor. From that point of view, we think it would be good, even for that, and because of the fact that there would have to be a change in the Law on the High Council of Justice, to accept such an amendment. There is another significant reason here - now the question is raised, and I would ask it to the promoter: and why is such a detachment of the deputy public prosecutor, in relation to the public prosecutor? Just so he doesn't call on Mr. Grubach and his opinion. Special decisions of the Constitutional Court have shown what his opinion is and what his legal-political position was. I would say that, procedurally speaking, the exact same role is played by the deputy attorney general and the public prosecutor. In this way, the only way to put more pressure on the deputy public prosecutors, political pressure above all, and in such a way that the executive authority can carry out incomparably more control than it has ever been before. Otherwise, I don't understand why the motionary wouldn't accept the existence of such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13684	He has the word Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13685	The fact is that secondary legislation is something that exists which is not foreign and which, of course, is also this law, like the back of a specialis - which, compared to the laws that generally regulate certain areas, is applied to more norms, especially those relating to the profits of judges and public prosecutors and especially to ensure their material independence, so that they are independent of political influences. That's what the fact is and why we've defined ourselves for it. This assembly was also defined as a concept, which was discussed on the Committee on Justice and Administration and in the professional public, which is that the deputy public prosecutors should be re-election, that is, for eight years, and that is one concept some can agree on or disagree with. We've had a different concept so far, we'll have different from now, and we'll see which one will prove better. We who have defined ourselves for this concept, with full responsibility, will stand behind it and take responsibility for the potential consequences that arise, if this concept proves to be bad, or not good enough. But let's just see, because it's obvious that what we've had so far is inadequate to existing situations, in which the prosecution is quite passive, politically burdened. Just let's try something else, 'cause we're changing the system. It's something we all have to get back together with, whether we like it or not, but it's just, it's our duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13686	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 60, against 109 abstentions, three were not voted by three, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 119 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Committee for Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, noting that it is necessary to make amendments to the Article. In 67 and 93, the word "named" is "chosen". The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13687	Ladies and gentlemen, since my argument and argument, obviously, regarding the last amendment that comes down to the same idea, so that equalises the position of the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor, were not enough, I will take the opportunity to remind you of what I am based on this position. In Chapter III, which regulates the position of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, their rights and obligations are equalised: as regards independence, Article 32; as regards maintaining confidence in independence, Article 33; as regards material independence, Article 34; as regards immunity, Article 35; as regards liability for damages, Article 36; the right to association, Article 37; as well as the right to professional training, Article 38. So, all these members are said to literally equalise the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutors. So this is about a fundamental problem, which should not be burdened with some procedural matters related to a solution in the previous law, for example in the Law on the High Council of Justice. Please take this problem extremely seriously because it will have far greater consequences than we do, or at least most of you think you will. I therefore suggested that the term "and the deputy public prosecutor" should be added in article 56 behind the words "public prosecutor" and that paragraph 2, which is proposed to appoint the High Council of Justice, be deleted in the same article. Therefore, given the role and importance of the deputy public prosecutor, it is logical that they are chosen by the same authority as the public prosecutor, i.e. The National Assembly, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. I hope I've been precise and clear enough now, and you'll have the same understanding as in the previous four cases, and about my amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13688	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 44, against 117, two abstentions, five, a total of 168 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The Committee for Justice and Administration accepted it, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13689	My colleagues suggest I stay behind the pay phone all the time, but I'll be right there. So, in Article 57, which regulates the conditions for choice, and not the appointment, as is our idea, I suggested that a Yugoslav citizen who meets all the conditions could be chosen as a public prosecutor and a deputy public prosecutor. I'm re-incentive to equate the position of Deputy Attorney General and Public Prosecutor. This solution is in line with the proposed way of choice, taken mainly from Article 56, and in order to save myself from going out for a pay phone, and regarding the other amendments, you will allow me to remind you in what circumstances such a bill, or set of law in the field of justice, has been passed. First, the Ministry of Justice submitted its proposal for a law on courts and judges. This went to some professional debate in district and municipal courts. At the same time, the DSS, on the basis of a proposal for a set of justice laws from 1996 and 1997, put this set of laws in the assembly procedure. Whether by chance or under other circumstances, this proposal came first. On the boards on several occasions, we discussed the proposed laws on both the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice. I am really surprised that one of the government's representatives, and I think his name is Mr. Protic, expressed very large reserves regarding these laws, and that the government subsequently gave an opinion on both the laws and amendments. I would also like to remind you that both the Legislative and the Committee on Justice on the Acceptability of Amendments, which we as a parliamentary group, have submitted positively to these laws in co-operation with the SPS expert team on legal issues, given that such amendments will contribute to the quality of future laws. Of course, I hope you will have the same opinion, but as things are now clearly not understood enough by most MPs about what importance this is. So, the same idea and the essence of my amendments to Article 58, where it is proposed that the election of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors be advertised by the High Council of Justice. Also, to Article 59, where I suggested that it be deleted that the application should be accompanied by evidence of meeting the conditions for the election, not the appointment. This will be my last date on this set of amendments. I hope you'll finally understand the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13690	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 39, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that a legal amendment is possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13691	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 57. I asked for the bill to be deleted in the first position part of the sentence that we had in the Judges' Law, and where it is said that the public prosecutor must be worthy of the public prosecutor's duty. What kind of a flat-rate assessment and what is it, what are moral criteria and who is who determines whether someone is worthy of being a public prosecutor or not. If something is wanted, if asked by a candidate, and the conditions are known and someone would compete as a public prosecutor, which all legal conditions must meet, then why is this definition now being introduced that can be widely interpreted. To be worthy of a public prosecutor's duty, to like the ruling structure of DOS, or perhaps to be worthy of a public prosecutor, to have a certain height, weight, eye color, so I think this is really one of the nonsense that we had when we passed Judges' Law, and I suggest that this part of Article 1 be deleted by the amendment that I have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13692	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 32, against 119, one abstention, not voting 10, 162 MPs are present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We're still working at 15.00 hours, but I'm really asking you at 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.30.]] I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 35, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8, a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 58. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 42, against 109 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13694	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted amendments to Article 59 and Article 60, which concern the selection and appointment of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, primarily for reasons of consistency, because I object to the establishment of the High Council of Justice and because I believe that some of the basic principles of legal norms should really be respected. In Article 58, the second point reads that an election ad is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and in the second means of public notification, and Article 59(1) leaves this "and other means of public information". However, it is possible, and this is indeed happening in practice, that the same day will not be published as "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and that at the same time be published in a daily newspaper, which otherwise publishes the ads. There would be those who answer the ad, let's say, on the basis of the date published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" in a more favourable position than those who, for example, read the ad in the daily press and applied to the competition. It is impossible to establish on this basis when the time limit for the conclusion of the ad itself expires. I asked the third attitude to be deleted because I believe that the High Council of Justice should not be the one to look for a personal list for each candidate and that this personal list should certainly not be guided. Especially not to be led by the Ministry of Justice as envisaged here and especially because it contains this personal list such that it is a bit humiliating for candidates, and there are moments that cannot even be determined, especially when it comes to candidate property. It's something that always remains to be discussed, based on which it can be determined whether someone has this much or so property. If you're referring to immobility, then it's easy to take out of the catastradoment, but if it's moving property or if it's money, it's all over again on the one who needs to report whether there are as many or as many thousands of marks, as you already agreed in the election campaign, so you all had, I think, thirty thousand savings. No one else, no less. Article 60 places candidates who apply to the competition, those who come from the public prosecutor's office in relation to those who come from another body or organisation, because those who come from the public prosecutor's office must deliver that personal list, and those others do not. Information on the expertise or, as you say, candidate dignity is data obtained from their former employers, and they are mostly subjective. Assuming that, as you've now predicted, two years for a public prosecutor in the municipal public prosecutor's office or one year for a deputy district attorney, you're asking his former employer for information:what he is, is he professional, is he professional. Let's say one graduate attorney who works in the municipality, who works in a municipal inspection, what the secretary of the board's office will say, is he an expert in being a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor. If I were in place, say, this employer as a secretary, if I had a bad worker and I didn't know how to get rid of him, I'd write all about him. So that's untrustworthy data. That's why I asked for the intervention of both members, because I think the candidates are in an unequal position to call the competition and compete in these places.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13695	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, against 108, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 104, a abstentioned one, was not voted 13, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 11, a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. (Zoran D. Nikolić: I give up the amendment. ) I find that MP Zoran D. Nikolic gives up the amendment to Article 61. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13696	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, in 61, it is proposed that the appointment of deputy public prosecutors and the proposal of public prosecutors, the High Council of Justice, take into account only the expertise and dignity, and any appointment and any proposal for a choice must be reasoned. Namely, the National Assembly has nothing to explain. This puts the National Assembly, as well as the people’s messengers in it, in an unworthy position. It is they who must accept in advance the justification for the appointments carried out by another body, and it is not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or its competent authority, so that under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia it should fall within its jurisdiction, in its prerogatives. That's why I think a member like this would be good to avoid. Of course, it would be better if there wasn't even a proposal from the High Council of Justice, but we'll see it in article 62, which we'll also be talking about. It says that if a public prosecutor is not elected, the High Council of Justice re-establishs the proposal. It seems to me that in the most senseless way, it does nothing that could be done or done in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine just an example we could come to at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia if the High Council of Justice proposes public prosecutors, we do not accept it here, and they are obliged to re-establish the proposal. What if they re-establish the same proposal? There is no obligation anywhere that if the National Assembly says that the proposal is not valid, they must make a different proposal. We have almost no right, except to postpone the adoption of what the High Council of Justice has proposed for a while. Not only is this a bad legal solution, but it is also contrary to other legal acts, and especially contrary to the Constitution as a back of superior.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13697	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 23, against 145, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 62nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. (Zoran D. Nikolić: I give up the amendment. ) I find that MP Zoran D. Nikolic withdrew the amendment to Article 62. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 63rd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 22, against 143, a abstentioned one, was not voted on by 12, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 120, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 17, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13698	The honourable MPs, article 64, refer to the text of an oath by public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. Before I say anything about the proposed text, I would say that taking an oath from the deputy public prosecutors to the president of the National Assembly is really not appropriate at the moment when the public prosecutors are elected by the Assembly, and the deputy public prosecutors are the High Council of Justice. Where they were elected, I guess they should take an oath. Which would take an oath here in this building and in front of the president of the National Assembly. This is just another proof of the inconsistency and inconsistency of the text of the law. The promoter says that the text of the oath should read: "I swear to Almighty God that I will protect constitutionality and legality in a committed, safe and impartial manner." The second attitude says, "The oath can be passed without the word "the Almighty God." It would really be a shame for me to propose, first of all, something like this and such a concept as the one proposed to the member himself as the text of the oath, because in practice it would seem really stupid, because it would lower the level of the oath. I believe that every man when he has to take an oath, and even when he has to say, that when he's married, he has one special sense of responsibility, and, especially when he swears that some profession he's chosen to perform is what he's supposed to do, it means by the Constitution and the law. For this reason, we Serbian radicals have proposed one text that would be acceptable absolutely to everyone, which would contain everything that such a high-ranking civil servant should have in mind when entering such a high duty. The text of the oath would be as follows: "I swear to do my duty faithfully to the Constitution and to the law, according to my best knowledge and skill, and to serve only truth and justice. As I honor this oath, so help me God." A man must swear, first of all, that there is something above him. First, there is a constitution and a law that must certainly be respected, secondly, if an honorable man must think that he may exist, and there is something beyond his power, no matter what function he was in. He must remember that the oath is something that makes him special. Because if it weren't for such a significant function, it wouldn't have been an oath like that, either in law or in practice. If there is no Bible to lay hands on the Bible, there is a Constitution, but the Constitution is trampled daily in our country, so it represents nothing. Therefore, if you have avoided - God, here, by amendment and introduced - honor, it is no guarantee, because it can be proved after some time that this man is not even an honorable man, so he had nothing to swear on. That's why this second part of the oath, which we Serbian radicals are proposing, which is, "How I will honor this oath, so help me God," because even the greatest unbelievers, when they find themselves in some difficult situations of life, are calling on God to help them -- it still has some significance for the people who are taking it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13699	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 116, abstentions 31, were not voted 14, a total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The promoter and representative of the government have accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible and has become an integral part of the bill. The 64th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 115, with 35 abstentions, 12, a total of 185 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment, although at first it accepted it. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 115, the three abstentions, were not voted 11, a total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13700	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, just because of some stubbornness that occurred during yesterday's session, we are now in a rather complex situation and everyone is a little quiet about it, because no one will talk about why the deputy prosecutor's office is missing, or determined by an eight-year deadline... The voices -- because they're all yours. I haven't heard what you're saying, whose are they all? That's Shormaz, come and say it here. You're a national MP, just like me, so come and talk to me. Please, let's hear from each other. I have to go back to the Constitution, Article 106, which has in its first sentence: "The public prosecutor's function is permanent". I don't know if we should write it and that it refers to the Deputy Attorney General's office. We have now come to the situation in which we have come, because my colleague Zoran D. Nikolic's amendment in the previous law has not been adopted, that this moment the Assembly is voting against the amendments of the SPS representatives, even though they are trying to introduce this law into constitutionality. We have a story all the time, both from the Minister of Justice and from all the living who, if necessary, are called to the Constitution, of course when they need the Constitution, and when they don't need it, it doesn't matter when we say, "The Constitution is wrong and we'll change it, and until we change the Constitution, we'll use it for a little while, and we won't. I would ask that we stop here and that this stalemate position be resolved precisely in the spirit in which this package of laws is proposed. Because I think we're getting into a stalemate situation, when it comes to this article 66, the law, where I've asked for that right to be appointed by the High Council of Justice to be suspended once it comes to deputy public prosecutors. I have to mention now the Constitution, Article 106, and those members around article 106, are talking about it. Please, look, read, and then we'll talk again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13701	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Michael, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13702	I don't know if Mr. Tomic and I were at the same session, but as far as I can tell, we talked a good part of the afternoon about this particular problem and the issue of continuity and independence, both the prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors. I ask Mr. Tomic to show me in the Constitution where the deputy public prosecutor's office is permanent, to show me that he writes in the Constitution provisions -- the deputy public prosecutors are permanent. When he shows it to me, then we will honor that provision. If he finds out to me, at this point, I'm willing to stop by the law and check it out. As it's not there, there's no reason for us to stop at all. I know a lot of people would love to stop in this country with everything that's been done to keep what's wrong. Of course we're not gonna do that. Of course we're going through a change. No trick question, about like that, will stop us from continuing the changes we started, so I don't see that there's any reason to stop with any law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13703	We may have a different constitution. As a replica, you can read if it says - deputy. Here, you can read it through the replica. This is a real parliamentary debate, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13704	Since we've all started showing the Constitution, here's someone in the Constitution to read me where the deputy is separated from the public prosecutor's office. There's a function, there's just a public prosecutor's office. [[elevator in the O.R.]] She's constitutionally guaranteed. The D.A.'s office is acting as a state authority, so he has to have his own boss. It's a public prosecutor, and the rest are deputies. All responsibilities within the prosecution and powers are the same. That's what the Constitution says in Article 106. Then somebody please read to me where the replacement function is separated from the public prosecutor's office. (Dejan Mihajlov: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13705	According to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, let's say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13706	I just want Mr. Tomic to read me where the public prosecutor's office is connected with the deputy attorney general's office and then we can talk about the continuity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13707	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, obviously we've moved from the law level to the level of the Constitution. The constitution is a very serious thing to make it easy to interpret and interpret as anyone arrives. Nor do I give myself the right to do so, but only this Parliament can do so in a credible way. If we've already gone through different interpretations, then I have to blame my esteemed colleague, Michael, on this separatical or occasional legalism or the applicable legality. , when it fits a certain moment. [[elevator in the O.R.]] Let me remind you that no mention of local communities in the Constitution, but no one here in this room can say that local communities do not exist. The constitution also states that no Serbian citizen can be extradited or expelled from the country, but the government, in which Mr. Mihajlov did, did. So be careful with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13708	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that the joyous society from the corner has passed on that mood to the entire O.R. I'm going to try to say something in a few sentences about calling the bill promoter to the Constitution. It is true that, literally and looking at the Constitution, no mention is made of the deputy public prosecutors, but since you have called for logical interpretation of legal acts and legal norms by that interpretation, you would conclude that this is understood. We don't have to go any further, we can do a brief analysis of what you are and how you've done so far about these laws, in which way individual members of the Constitution, of a certain constitutional norm, have been violated. I don't think that's gonna be hard to prove. In Article 35. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to guarantee the right to work. We have seen how it is taken away from individual people who, eventually, could be resolved on their own request, and after that, they would not be able to carry out this kind of work. As far as the Constitution is concerned, we have seen in which way, which is far more dangerous than even this right given to every individual and every man, the ingenuity and prerogatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are directly taken away and given directly to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. So, to the executive body of power. We can't call the Constitution when it suits us and when we don't. At the same time, the question arises, since we are talking about a public prosecutor's office, what does the Republic's public prosecutor do after the Constitutional Court's decision to declare the Federal Government's regulation unconstitutional, means the decisions of the Republic government and all that happened with the kidnapping or kidnapping and extradition of certain citizens to the UN tribunal, or to another country. I have a question -- why he doesn't, on official duty, initiate a procedure on this matter. He'd have to do it. If he doesn't do the job, I'm asked why the National Assembly doesn't raise the question of establishing someone who would be a republican public prosecutor, if he's not already or I don't know what a man's doing, what he thinks he's doing, what business he's doing, and what kind of business he's gonna do sometimes. So this constitution, which is used to sometimes tell someone he's legalist, that sometimes someone would say that he cares a lot about legal standards, seems to fit you sometimes, and it seems to me that it doesn't suit you much more often. I think we need more than ever to appeal to legal acts and strictly interpret them. Of course, one of the interpretations, the best authentic interpretation of the law, but one of the interpretations (I don't know, language can also be logical interpretation) -- it's quite clear, given that the exact same procedural rights have a deputy public prosecutor, that he's a de facto public prosecutor, that he's performing a public prosecutor's office, and that he should be evened out in a position. So that's what we think. As for the local communities, by the way, and about who adheres to the Constitution, there is no such thing as the Constitution. Where we were able to influence no local communities. After that, everyone started criticizing, and something that socialist self-government brought is being violated. I see it suits everyone. I have to say we're not going to be in on it. We stick to the strict constitution. Whoever wrote it, whatever that Constitution looks like, the Constitution is the Holy Scriptures. No one can say like the Minister of Justice, not the Constitution of the Holy Scriptures. It is the Constitution of the Holy Scriptures, for anyone who deals with government affairs. It doesn't have to be for an individual, it can be more important to him than the Constitution. But for civil servants, civil servants, the Constitution must be as important as the Holy Scriptures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13710	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I would like to put the amendments to the vote, noting that we have shown as a Assembly for the last 15-20 minutes that we have the potential to function truly as a Assembly and to conduct a proper assembly debate. I'm closing the vote. [[Applause]] For 54, against 116, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 24, against 152 abstentions, there were no nine votes, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 67th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word Mr. Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13711	Dear President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 67, which discusses the reasons for the termination of the public prosecutor's office. I asked for the erasure of attitude 2, which also says that the deputy public prosecutor ceases his duty when the time for which he was appointed expires and if the public prosecutor's office is suspended. In favour of a little earlier debate, I will now really quote this article 106. The Constitution, only in the first sentence. The constitution uses the term: "The public prosecutor's function is permanent". To whom the public prosecutor's office belongs - the public prosecutor's office belongs to the prosecutors and their deputies. This is a very clear interpretation, you don't need any form of interpretation done. So the very clear interpretation of this article is 106. We are now in a situation that, by failing to adopt Article 1 of the previous law, we have really come into a paradoxical situation. I hope, Mr. Michael, that you now understand Article 106(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13712	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 54, against 119, two abstentions, 12 did not vote, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 69th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the fact that today is really hard to convince you of anything that is justified, I will try to explain my amendment, although it is difficult to reach you. For you, the deputy prosecutor is not a prosecutor, not even a V.D. for you. The Republic's public prosecutor is not a republican public prosecutor, because you provided for him to be appointed by the High Council of Justice, and you did not write - from the ranks of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic, or from the ranks of the Public Prosecutors, who were already elected by the Assembly, but only by article 25, you said that v.d. appoints the High Council of Justice. For someone to be a V.D. a republican public prosecutor, which means a republican public prosecutor, must be elected in this assembly as a public prosecutor. You're just persecuting yourself about whether or not the public prosecutor is writing and whether or not the deputy is mentioned, and this is about something that's just as serious. Namely, you provided for a member of 69 to be released by the public prosecutor and deputy when convicted of a criminal offence to an unconditional sentence of prison for six months or for a criminal offence that makes them unworthy of their duties. I suggest that they be resolved when convicted of a crime and that we delete the provision to keep it minimum for six months. Because what it means is you keep a public prosecutor who's been sentenced to five months in prison, get out of jail and become a public prosecutor again. Now, you may object that he will be relieved because he has done an act that makes him unworthy of his duties, but you have not said anywhere who will judge what work is unworthy of duty and what work is worthy. You know, for the D.A.'s office, it's unworthy to be sentenced to prison, and there's no question anymore -- what kind of act is it and how long has it been? The prosecutor can't, the judge, when he gets out of prison, continue his post. Well, the people will laugh. How will he ask the participant in the matter? Are you condemned? Then he'll say if you, Mr. Prosecutor, were in the same cell together. I think you should think about it a little bit, because it's about people who should be doing serious duties in this country. Even if you're trying to get a dose of insecure into this whole process, there are things you don't play with. The judge is one of the most respected people in every municipality, the public prosecutor as well. Who am I talking to? [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13714	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 57, there were no abstentions against 121, not nine, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 69th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 88, against 66, with nine abstentions, they did not vote 24, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word Mr. Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13715	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, has moved on to the new chapter of the law, which is to determine the reason for the termination of the office of the prosecutor's office and has nothing to do with what we have adopted so far. It is here in Article 71, paragraphs 2 and 3, where we have carried out certain interventions, stated the following - that the procedure for resolution is initiated by a public prosecutor, directly a senior public prosecutor, a republican public prosecutor and a minister in charge of the judiciary. We have suggested that the term "Minister of Justice" be deleted, and we think it is enough for these authorities to be authorised to initiate the procedure, so that even under existing rules, the minister of justice did not have the authority to initiate the procedure for resolving prosecutors. As a result, this draft law offers more to the executive authority than it has under existing laws, and the proposer assured us that the desire and spirit of the law to provide these proposals with a higher degree of stability and independence of the public prosecutor's office. We therefore consider it entirely possible, regardless of the votes before this, to exclude the Minister of Justice from launching a procedure for the resolution of public prosecutors. We agree that he can give the initiative, as a member of the High Council of Justice and that this is the right measure of things, but we think that this is excessive and that the proposed solution is not in the spirit of the concept of the bill itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13716	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? If not, I would like to put the amendment tabled by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. For 58, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the 71st Amendment is President Natasa Jovanovic's member. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that it is the same legally possible. Do you want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13717	The amendment to Article 71, paragraph 2, and I will not go forward with the same objection in the amendment to Article 73, paragraph 3, concerns our continuing objections since the start of the debate on this law in particular on direct interference, the direct interference of the minister of justice in the work of the independent body, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the public prosecutors. In Article 71, we are just talking about a procedure for resolution when it comes to formal reasons, and someone may look like the reasons of a technical nature when someone finishes a working century, can be initiated by the minister of justice. But, when other reasons arise, as the proposer has stated, the unwitting exercise of the duty, the authority to initiate the procedure, in addition to the others mentioned, also has a minister of justice. The question is how will this law on the Public Prosecutor's Office look after all these amendments and the question is whether the Proposer himself knows what amendment has been adopted, which is not, but one thing is quite certain - that these will make the broad powers of Minister Batic, not only through the provisions of Articles 71 and 73, but through the application of the whole law, so that he can continue to act arrogantly, as well as so far: that one prosecutor likes it, the other does not like it; that he distances them by personal sympathies and antipathies; that he runs the campaign; that he, as part of the executive authority, has an open story, day by day, on all DOS media, on all televisions, and then says - he has the support of the people. And those who are employed in DOS media, walking on Belgrade streets, almost couldn't find anyone from citizens who would justify such Batic's actions. And you, and by this law, and you give these members even greater authority, to do whatever they want, to behave as they please. After all, the DOS gentlemen, because of such Batic, because of such laws, you will bear the consequences in front of the Serbian voters. These are certainly not laws, as you said during this almost 10-day debate, which will lead to an independent judiciary, the possibility that people are responsible, highly moral, highly professional, in the best possible way doing their job. You're aware of that. It is now like this, and in the future political trade, the question is how things will stand and who will take the advantage, whether a new Batic, similar to him, but God forbid someone worse comes than Vladan Batic, hardly then to prosecutors, judges and all those who need to seek judicial protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13718	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 55, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 23, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 53, against 117 abstentions, there were no, no 22, a total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to Article 73, which was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. For 51, against 115, the two abstentions, were not voted 24, a total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that it is the same legal possibility. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 73, which was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. For 53, against 126, a abstentioned one, was not voted 13, a total of 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 75th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13719	Article 75, whose erasure I seek, says a republican public prosecutor may be in the process of resolving for an unconscious or unprofessional performance of his duties to give a warning measure or a measure of removal from the public prosecutor's office from one month to one year. The High Council of Justice can do the same when it resolves the objection, and the first-degree prime minister in charge of the judiciary tells the republic's public prosecutor. The pronunciation of both disciplinary measures is the result of the previously initiated procedure for discharge due to unconscious or unprofessional performance, so now imagine, you have a public prosecutor, it is found that he carries out his duties unwittingly or unprofessionally, and then the public prosecutor tells him - but you are not good, go to the corner for up to a year, as a small child. Is this about high-ranking civil servants, and it's supposed to be high-level lawyers, serious, adult, responsible people, or kindergarten kids? Given the suggestions that we have for public prosecutors, given the proposals that we had for judges, we assume that perhaps this measure of warning or driving into a corner might be appropriate, because your candidates are disastrous. If we start from there, this provision is fine, but of course I'm not going away from it. I come from the fact that it's the law that needs to last a little while, although I doubt this one can last longer than the mandate of this assembly, that if the public prosecutors are aware of what is coming to them, they should feel greatly humiliated by such a provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13720	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 56, against 123, there were no abstentions, there was no 13 vote, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13721	I will no longer report for the floor, although I have a few amendments, since it is clear that the assembly majority has not accepted some of our ideas, which is certainly the right of the majority in Parliament. It is not a problem that the congregation minority is not obedient, I think the bigger problem is that in some ways most have resented and trained. I said that our parliamentary group, and I hope that other groups have received a letter from the district attorney in Belgrade, with colleagues of five municipal public prosecutors in Belgrade, made certain remarks and suggestions on the proposal for this law, whose epilogue can take note of one of their sentences, which they stated in a letter -- by adopting these laws, without appropriate changes, we get independent courts and dependent prosecutors. That's what the function holders said that this assembly, the majority, put on these high duties a few months ago, put on the big majority of votes. I don't think that's right, but I'm saying it's certainly the right of the majority. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, he refers to who makes first-degree measures to the republican public prosecutor. The bill stipulates that it is done by the minister of justice. It is devastating for the republican public prosecutor, who represents the public prosecutor's office, to, conditionally speaking, not persuasively, the executive official gives notices. That's why we suggested that if someone has to warn him, that's what the High Council of Justice does. In addition, my colleague, Petar Jojic, spoke of the names of the republican prosecutor and the prosecution in a similar way in the discussion in principle, especially with regard to the powers he has under the Criminal Penal Code, so I think this time the majority will be wrong if he does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13723	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has all been said about these laws and I would only correct my colleague Nikolic in the part in which he quoted a letter from the district attorney, supported by the presidents of the municipal prosecutors from Belgrade. We have fully met these requirements, and we have actually shown our good will and honesty in our intention, which was primarily motivated by our efforts to depolitize the area of justice. In only two cases, prosecutors were left without our support, and that is: in a (one) case where, in practice, through a member of this law, the process of resolution, or re-election, the deputy prosecutor in the prosecution; and in a (other) case in which, instead of a competitive appeal to a colleague of the republican public prosecutor, which makes up, in addition to the republican public prosecutor, the president of Belgrade, Kragujevac and Novi Sad, we are actually staying at a college of three district court presidents, not telling which three are. So it's a more or less formal difference, essentially not. The conceptal, political, is about re-election, because we felt that in such a way it could be more effectively corrected all of what is a poor feature of prosecution activities at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13724	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13725	Just, for the sake of the public, some of the objections in the form of an amendment to Article 39. The bill -- the public prosecutor's duty and the deputy public prosecutor's office is continued continuously from the first election to the completion of the working century. That's a suggestion. Then point 56, point 1 and point 2. - the attorney general and the deputy attorney general elects the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. It is also necessary to delete the provision of Article 42(3). The proposal, under which a decision on the distance of the republican public prosecutor in the first degree is taken by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary, as that authority should belong to the High Council of Justice, whose decision should be final. A couple more, so I don't bother the congregation majority. So there's no small difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13726	Mr. Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13727	The fact is that the prosecutors had one proposal and we met them in the good part of the case. We've adopted proposals for their amendments. We are not alone in these provisions, which were referred to by Mr Jovanovic, which relate to the continuity of the deputy public prosecutors and the college. We think this concept is better and I don't see that it's some obstacle to doing that function. We simply made such a proposal and accepted the suggestions of the public prosecutors, but we decided on this concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13728	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 58, against 114, a abstentioned one, was not voted by 17, a total of 190-nation MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 76. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are nearing the end of the debate in detail on the draft law on the public prosecutor's office. I am increasingly convinced that the law is not done professionally enough, that not all the laws to which it applies and that it will come into collage, not only with the Republic but even with federal legislation. For example, you have provided for the provisions of Article 17 that a public prosecutor may request a postponement or termination of the decision when he considers that there are reasons to deny by means of emergency legal means a decision taken in court or other proceedings. On page 24 of the "Official Journal of the SRJ", where the Executive Procedure Act was published, Article 263 says: "The provisions of other laws, relating to the request for a stay and termination of execution, will not apply to the executive procedure. "What does that mean? This is from the time we amended the laws in the Federal Assembly. You are now predicting that if someone gets the dispute, for example, against the "Cepter Bank" and gets the executive verdict, that the public prosecutor may, under Article 17, as you have now adopted it, demand a postponement or termination of the decision and never again be charged that debt. That's what's happened before. You're predicting that now, even though the federal law is clear and rigorous. The executive decision can no longer be stopped, because many people and today walk with executive judgments in their pocket and have never charged their debts. Disputes with executive verdicts have been extended for another 10 or 15 years. We wanted the practice to stop and at a time when the minister of justice was Petar Jojic and when the SRS took part in the federal government, with a great struggle at the government's own session, this member entered legal traffic. He cannot be killed by the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, which we bring to the Republic Assembly. So the non-compliance of the law is evident and obvious. Of course, I don't like the warning measure you're about to give to a public prosecutor or his deputy. I think when a man performs such a responsible duty, when he's the most professional lawyer you can choose, he simply can't deserve a warning measure -- either he'll be far away, or he'll be resolved or he'll do it right. Is this a violation in which you will give a warning to the prosecutor in the performance of your duties? I don't mean late for work. But if a public prosecutor doesn't do his job properly, even if it's minimally possible, he can't get any warning. From whom should he receive warnings? He's not a student, he's not a student. Of course, there are some smart MPs here who've identified themselves with the people they've been hanging out with, so they can make money. But this is about serious things. This is about laws under which courts and prosecutions will start to act tomorrow. It should point to all aspects, whether you like it or not. It would have been good if you had read these laws in detail and found what was wrong with them yourself. The number of amendments that were accepted on these laws already says they were not well prepared. There are never well-prepared laws that are not proposed by the government, because no one has such a apparatus. Then what good is it for the government if we are able to write the laws ourselves, to which we fully derivate the government's duties? The government is the prime lawmaker and has a huge apparatus. Thousands of people are employed in that machine. Now, we write five laws, sign them only one man. Here, here for five days five laws explain one man. Do you think that's good? Do you think we've seen it all right? Do you think there will be no conflict in practice? Do you think there will be no humiliation in practice? I think it will be. Do you think it'll be an independent judiciary, that it'll be an independent prosecutor's office? I'm convinced it won't be independent. You're saying there's no Deputy Prosecutor in the Constitution. There's no such thing as a member of the duties of a republican public prosecutor. You can't find an employee of the duties of a republican public prosecutor anywhere. Will he have that man's immunity? Will the National Assembly decide on his immunity when it is appointed by the High Council of Justice?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13730	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 55, against 116, two abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 77th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13731	This is the last amendment I filed in front of the SRS parliamentary group. We are approaching the end of the debate in detail on the package of laws. However, there is still one law on areas and the seats of prosecutors and courts, which we will soon consider. However, what I would remind you and what I would say for the public, who is following these assembly meetings, is the fact that these packages of the law on the judiciary were given by the Proposer and that he was probably not himself, nor is he at this point aware of the consequences that the entire judicial system will have to adopt such nadadal legal projects. Legislative projects written by one from the Yugoslav Left, which the former minister, also from the Yugoslav Left, tried in 1998 to push for adoption into the government of the Republic of Serbia. The laws that have been broken by the spear for days, for which we have been forced, we MPs of the SRS and other MPs of the opposition who have revised their position in the meantime, to go to their homes and return to the invitation of the President of the Assembly only when some agreement has been reached, political trade between the two strongest parliamentary groups within the formerly unique DOS. Article 77 of this Law speaks enough about the inconsistency and the promoter and the whole part of the DOS to vote in favour of this law. But I do not believe at all that many MPs, who have been absent from the assembly halls for days, who have caused the lack of quorum, and from the parliamentary groups are once a unique DOS, know what kind of legal projects there have been here for several days. That you are inconsistencies, talks and the position of a member of 77, in which you say that the public prosecutor, who is to be dismissed or who is to file a request, submits a request to the High Council of Justice. And you know very well that it is appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Only the deputy public prosecutors, for which you have not yet defined where the Constitution requires you to place them, it is not yet clear to you, appoints the High Justice Council for which you voted. All of this at the same time shows that this inconsistency will be present, not only in the case of such legal proposals, but also in the course of your operation, and I am also confident, and this is also today my last message to my colleague, Michael, who is only pro-formist here of these laws, that also his parliamentary group is not referred to what happens through such legislative proposals. And let's not talk about those who are going to press the key today - to vote the Prosecution Act and the next law to end this set of law on justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13732	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 115, the abstentioned were not voted 22, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 114 abstentions, there were no 22 votes, a total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 79, which actually refers to Article 78, was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this section, in Article 79, it is said that the termination of the public prosecutor's office is being decided by the National Assembly, and that is how right we were when we spoke about who is essentially electing a public prosecutor, and that is not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, de facto. But in the second position, the High Council of Justice is said to decide on the termination of the deputy prosecutor's office. Completely unnecessary, because that status would have to be identical to that of a public prosecutor. Therefore, if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does so for a public prosecutor, it should also do so for the deputy public prosecutor, because his procedural powers are exactly the same and there is no fundamental difference. Secondly, in view of this article's third position, you can see everything we talked about yesterday. The question was raised yesterday, concerning the Law on Judges, as well as the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the possibility of a administrative dispute and why only appeal to the Constitutional Court. However, it is obvious that the promoter has remained in his original position, or counts that it is best to resolve the appeal to the Constitutional Court, which we consider to be wrong. It would have been incomparably better if the possibility had also been left in this case of running and running a administrative dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13734	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 25, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 79th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) The Proposer accepted this amendment. We don't have the government's opinion. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 132, against 30, two abstentions, were not voted 26, a total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Tomic submitted to the 80th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have the same illogicality here as in the draft law on the election of judges. The type is written, so there are similar mistakes, i.e. Wrong solutions. Namely, it is said that the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor cannot file an application for election in the court or public prosecutor's office, nor an application for appointment as deputy public prosecutor or judge for violations. Again, the question arises - and what if the resolution was carried out on his request, because of family problems, or anything else. It is again denied by the Constitution guaranteed the right to work for a man, and I will repeat the wing of Gaš Knezevic - the famous Minister of Education, famous in Europe and beyond, as our people would say, because such a minister has nowhere to go - who says that those who are so educated, so professional that they would be better waiters and better do other jobs for which no such high professional prepares are needed, but I guess we're fighting for them to do what their profession is, what they're interested in, what this school ended for. That's why I'd say he shouldn't and can't in this way deny the right to apply or we could at least tax Sorry to interrupt. [[growls]] So I think we had to tax the cases where there would be exceptions, if nothing else, because what happens in practice when there's an example like this. When a person on a personal request is resolved, for any reason, and then after that he wants to do the job, he wants to do what his profession is, what his profession is, what he's trained and qualified to do, and we say, "E, you have no right to apply, let alone do the same job. Go, be a waiter or do something else." Of course, by the way, I have nothing against the waiter and I used to do it myself when I was 15 or 16. Perhaps it would be better and easier to convince others how jobs are done than you are. So I ask the Proposer to accept this amendment, to accept the amendment of this article, because I am sure that it will be much better and that many difficult situations, many incredible situations in practice itself, will be avoided in this way. I'm sure who has the sense to accept that, and if not, the easiest thing to do is to say no again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13736	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 74, against 101, there were no abstentions, there was no 16 vote, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Radovanovic submitted to the 81st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13737	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 81, and I ask that it be deleted. Why? In almost all the discussions that were behind this speaker today, opposition MPs, above all from the SPS, the party that has the most representatives in the previous elections, have shown that the public prosecutor and his deputy have the same rights, the same obligations and that they are equal. Article 14 This bill says the deputy public prosecutor may, without special authority, take any action for which the public prosecutor is authorised. The whole third chapter of this bill speaks of public prosecutors and deputies, in terms of public prosecutors and deputies, public prosecutors and deputies are entitled, no one is responsible etc. First of all, that's why I think article 81 needs to be deleted. It is not good for him to find himself in this proposal or in the final version of the law. By the way, I have one question for the bill promoter. Article 1 of this law says: "The public prosecutor's office is an independent state body that prosecutes perpetrators of criminal and other criminal acts, by investing legal means protects the constitutionality and legality and takes other actions for which the law has been authorised. The public prosecutor's office is only subject to the constitution and the law." Article 6 of this proposal says "The public prosecutor's office informs the public of the state of crime and other phenomena observed in the work". Since you are speaking more declaratively about an independent judiciary, I am asking the applicant whether this means that after the adoption of this legal prosecutor and his deputy, since they are equal, as are all public prosecutors at the level of district and municipal areas, they will file criminal charges and take other actions for all those involved in the kidnapping and kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic and his delivery to The Hague. Does this mean that by adopting this law, we have received an independent judiciary that respects constitutionality, the Constitution, the legality and, above all, the Supreme Court's decision, which said the federal government's regulation is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13738	Anybody else answer for a word? (Niko) I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 114, a abstentioned one, was not voted 23, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, George Mamul, to article 86. The Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does Mr. Mamula want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 25, against 136, the two abstentions did not vote 30, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13739	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am here as a representative of the SPS, a party that had the highest percentage of votes in Sunday's elections, just to remind you [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13740	You must understand this laugh.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13741	President, I understand the smile, but the figures show that we have the most MPs and the highest percentage, and that's nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13742	Let's hear from each other and talk about the subject a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13743	I asked for the removal of Article 93, which refers to transitional and final provisions and which says the deputy public prosecutors will be appointed by 1 May 2002. In the light of the Law, it says that they will be appointed by May 1st and what scares me is that you have given one light period of several months to test which people are obedient and which people will be deputy prosecutors. If you look at what the papers say these days, and if you remember the one you've appointed as minister of justice, who is a doctor, but mentions a C-section, which I'm sure you don't understand, the story of the C-section in the judiciary, says the people want justice. The election has shown these days whether the people want just that kind of justice or someone else. He mentions cleaning up in courts, mentions people who used to do things by law and want to change them. The big title in "Glass" two days ago was - eight branded judges from Nis in the Nink Palace of Justice. It's a shame, it's a disgrace from the minister of justice. People are being replaced on the basis of an assessment, his assessment of the work, or the unhappiness of the courts. I have proved for this speaker, so one of the heads of Parliament, to whom I congratulate the new group, apologized for this pay phone, saying it was true that this gentleman was never the secretary of the SPS. The data I showed here was that it was the best commercial court, not the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13744	I just thought today would go by without a warning, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13745	All these things that have been said show only - yes, if Minister Batic assesses someone's work and is up-to-date, it certainly doesn't sound good. In the end, I just want to say one thing -- it's a good thing that the laws in this assembly, instead of ministers, are written by MPs, are written by union workers instead of the Minister of Labour. And probably the Minister of Justice of the Poor doesn't know, or he's not informed, he'll probably be removed. You haven't told him yet, but let him know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13746	Anybody else answer for a word? He's got the word, Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe this is another illogical explanation, a very illogical member, who has been proposed by the DSS. Since this was proposed earlier by another political party, JUL, it was probably not even a particularly important explanation and explanation now. Namely, for those who do not know what law is on the agenda, or who are members, I will read Article 92, which is related to Article 93, which makes Article 93 completely pointless. In fact, Article 92 states that public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors continue their duties in public prosecutors, in which they were elected or deployed under the Public Prosecutor's Law. Article 93 says "The deputy public prosecutors will be appointed by 1 May 2002. "The last provision says, in the second position of Article 95, that the law enters into force on 1 January 2002. I know, for those who listen to me, that they've already read all the papers, that they're getting closer to the end of the day, that they have nothing to read, but I'm asking for just a little more patience. So the question is -- who, in what way, and why did he set the date on May 1, 2002? If anyone can explain it to us, and it doesn't say it in the text of an explanation, it would be good. He could have written July 1st, and October 1st, and April 1st, but we don't understand why this member of the Law would? We have clearly defined the behaviour of all the authorities, and even the High Council of Justice, what it will do by the time it chooses, either until it appoints the deputy public prosecutors, and until the Republic Assembly chooses, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, public prosecutors. Who needs this, why it's put into this law, it seems to me that no one, so it's not clear to the Proposer either. It will not be of special importance and we will not change anything much better if this amendment is accepted. We can't essentially fix it, we can't essentially make it better, we can provide an incomparably better position for the public prosecutor's office, especially for the deputy public prosecutors, who are essentially doing the same duties, but we can make one insignificant and meaningless provision even in this way, in the hope that things will be fixed by a future promoter, and it'll probably be one of the representatives of the Serbian government, because as you can see, no one from the Serbian government is at all interested in attending these discussions. Maybe someone's been 15 minutes since the start of the debate on a package of court laws. It would be interesting, because these are far more important laws, incomparably more important matter than the MPs want to present, than the media does. It seems much better to me that the MPs have also paid more and more attention to what they have proposed, that they have read it more than once, and not just taken the proposal and submitted it to the National Assembly for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13748	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the draft law on the public prosecutor's office on the inside. For 124, against 58, a abstentioned one, did not vote six, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the public prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13749	We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Seats and Areas of the Courts and Public Prosecutors (specificities) You have received a bill submitted by the People's MP Dejan Mihajlov. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Rajko Baralic, Djordje Mamula and Natasa Jovanovic, as well as amendments submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of the bill. Since the National Assembly, after a joint principled search has been concluded, under which the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors has also been discussed, has adopted the proposal for this law in principle, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has a positive view of the amendment, making the amendment an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) This amendment to Article 1 submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration has become an integral part of the draft law. The People's MP, George Mamul, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Did the bill promoter accept the amendment? Yeah. ) The vote will determine whether the amendment becomes part of the law. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare the amendment to Article 2. For 118, against 25, with 26 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment to the Second National MP George Mamula. The Committee on Justice and Administration submitted the amendment to Article 5. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee and the Government believe that the amendment is legally possible, making the amendment an integral part of the bill and not put to the vote. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13750	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, esteemed journalists, will try to ensure with this amendment that the territory of the Moravik district in everything, i.e. in all jurisdictions, is equalized and coincided, since the District Court of Cačak and the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka are in charge of courts and prosecutors in the municipalities of Gornja Milanovac, Cačak and Luciani, but not in Ivanjica. I believe that this is not logical, the District Court and the Užica District Public Prosecutor's Office cover 12 municipalities, and the citizens of Ivanjica do not exercise any rights and interests in Užica, or in the Užička District, and Moravički is one of the smaller in Serbia and thus needs to strengthen the authority of state institutions and bodies. The famous Jovan Cvijic found that all migrations went through the plums and downriver. Moravica is a river that makes West Morava with Rzava. This district is called the Moravia de Moravia, which is formed in the Ivanic region. The residents and citizens of Ivanjica have numerous friends and relatives in Cačka. There they are educated, there they are being treated, and the NBJ has an organization at the county level also where Ivanica is involved, and therefore I ask for your support, given that the relevant committee has said that this amendment is legally possible. There is no MP from the municipality of Ivanica in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I ask you to accept this amendment for collegiation and understanding. This is not about any party interest, it is simply about equating and equating the organization in the district itself and the jurisdiction of these two important state bodies. I thank you for your attention and ask that you vote in favour of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13751	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to Article 5 on the vote. For 69, against 91, with five abstentions, did not vote 16, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has not accepted this amendment. The proposal to add a new title and a new Article 5a after Article 5a. The Justice and Administration Committee has tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new Article 5a be added after Article 5. The promoter accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, the government has accepted, making it an integral part of the bill. Proposal to amend the title above Article 6. The Committee on Justice and Administration has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above Article 6. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legal, the government has accepted, making the amendment an integral part of the bill. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13752	Mrs. Comic said at the beginning of the debate on the Law in particular that the government of the Republic of Serbia accepted this bill, which is not true at all. If you call that incursion of Vladan Batic a few minutes ago at the Assembly Hall a positive attitude of the government, then this is a non-serious assembly, an unserious proposal, because you who laugh must pay attention to what it says on this paper. You probably lost it, you threw it away, and the question is, are you opening your envelopes? It says here, October 11th, Deputy Prime Minister Joseph Kassa, who said the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes to the National Assembly, listen to what the government tells you, these are not members of the government, accidentally sitting in its benches -- the government of the Republic of Serbia says it proposes to the National Assembly not to accept this bill. It is likely that Joseph Kasa had in mind that it is not exactly the reason for the promoter that this law does not require specific budgetary resources. That is exactly what the amendment to Article 6 I have submitted before the SRS parliamentary group, which speaks of areas of trade courts. First, this term, what it means to you, from what law you're from, from which states you've taken over -- trade courts. The SRS advocates a single judiciary, and in order for this law, as you wrote in your explanation, to be integrally normative, to be stated in the motionary sentence, would have to, and only one law on courts and judges had to be passed. And not to have such laws and to establish trade courts, that we don't know what budgets will be needed for this, and how you're going to explain to that kid, what it's called, Minister Bozidar Djelic, how you're going to explain to him when you design the 2002 budget that you need so much and so much funds for commercial courts. Instead of having business disputes departments as part of regular courts, instead of abolishing business courts, which is the position of the SRS, you're going to set up trade courts. And that's the very term for anyone who looks into it when it's known that it's not just trade disputes, it's different disputes between different economic operators. You are setting up new courts without knowing, you have no explanation, nor is it a majority group within the DOS, nor is it president of the Assembly -- why we still don't have a Constitutional Court of Serbia. Why can't we do this tyranny of yours in the Assembly, especially by the Serbian Government headed by Zoran Djindjic, to challenge the Constitutional Court of Serbia. These unconstitutional regulations, almost 100 of them brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Well, you know, you need to remind yourself that you're in Sustina, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that there are very serious laws here, not that you're throwing and screaming from the MPs' benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13753	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so there is no confusion, we already have economic courts. This is where the name is changed and they are called trade courts, so specialised courts within the so-called so-called "traffic courts". The regular court. We in the Serbian Radical Party are in favour of the existence of courts of general jurisdiction, which would have divided into four departments -- criminal-legal, civil-law, administrative and economic-law or trade-law, however. Serbia's tradition may be closer to trade-law, but it doesn't essentially change anything. We believe that specialized courts are not needed, first of all, because of the fact that, in this way, by applying the concept advocated by the Serbian Radical Party, we would provide better judicial protection for citizens, which is another of the constitutional rights of each individual in the Republic of Serbia, SR Yugoslavia. Why would every man in Serbia and Yugoslavia have to have legal knowledge? Why would everyone need to know in front of which specialised court or possibly court of general jurisdiction a certain procedure will be conducted. It seems to me that it is incomparably easier and incomparably better, but incomparably less complicated not only for the citizens but also for the court staff, complete for the administration to sort it out in this way, as we predicted. What still surprises me in this bill is the fact that we haven't received an explanation and that we don't understand why there is no law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors of administrative courts. There are many specialized courts that we have voted, of course not with our wish, not with our will, but with the will of the majority, and I don't know where, how and how they will function, where their seats will be, which areas will cover. They cannot be formed as departments of general jurisdiction, for this National Assembly voted them and decided that there are specialised administrative courts. We in the bill of this law, so we have municipal courts, we have municipal courts with extended jurisdiction for international assistance, district courts, trade courts, public prosecutors. So we're missing administrative courts from specialized courts. It's amazing that no one's thought of it or thought of it being introduced, so then they'll see how much it's going to be, whether it's money in the budget or not, so let's see where there's going to be seats of newly established specialised courts, so on. administrative courts. It is a huge shortage, but if it was already possible to leave out the administrative judiciary, seats, areas, and can be left out of trade courts, for the simple reason that it seems to me that in such a way we would force the proposing and the government of the Republic of Serbia to reform real reforms, and the real and serious reforms are that we have different departments, but that we have the courts of general jurisdiction, that the proceedings are more effective and that the work of the courts is more incomparably effective and more profitable than it has been before. Public prosecutors also seem to me that our concept was more uncomparably acceptable to most citizens, if they could hear it these days listening to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and since everyone was talking about their political parties, something boasted, I must boast that I am a member of the Serbian Radical Party. It's my first party, I've been and I'll stay, because it's a party that always holds to its principles and, of course, always respects the people's will. That's how it's always gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-07-0.u13755	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Proposer of acceptance. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 118, against 25, 30 abstentions, were not voted by 11, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. This ended the search of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular and put the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors in general to vote. For 150, against 27, there were no abstentions, no 9. A total of 186 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. I propose to the National Assembly that we make a decision to stop working today, because we have completed this law package in the field of justice, not to open a new agenda point and continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Please plead. For 144, against 6, two abstentions, did not vote 23, a total of 175 MPs. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 136 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. Since there's an uncoordinated attitude here, whether we're going in or counting. Well, it's a walk, it's a count. It's Mitrovdan, but let's count ourselves. I ask the service to count the members of the Parliament present in the O.R. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Višnja Nežić, Milan Radulović, Dragisa Đoković, Milos Lukić, Neda Arnerić, Dusan Budišin, Slavoljub Matić, Vojislav Doshen, Goran Ćirić, Teodora Vlahović, Jovan Deretic, Gvosden Jovanovic, Marina Stamenković, Borisvoje Drakulović, Ratimir Svirčević, Marin Krešić, Aleksandra Joksimović, Branislav Kovačević, Boško Ničić, Milorad Stanulović, Branko Beševic, Milos Radivojčević, Sredoje Mihajlov, Stanko Kovačević, Predrag Bajčetić, Dragoljub Vojnović, Branislav Grubački, Biačički, Biači Anton, Išpanovič, Milutin, Milutin, Milut, Milutović and Miha Jagodić. In the morning, prevents Miomir Tadic, Vasilija Pavicevic and Gordana Comic from attending. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Development Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Tomislav Nikolic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Aleksandar Vukic, Natasa Jovanovic, Radojko Petrovic, Dusan Ilic and Dragan Šormaz. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments submitted to the draft law. At the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the abroad, MPs Jovan Todorovic and Slobodan Tomovic set out. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Is there any suggestion that time should be different? Yeah. )
