ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14500	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 135 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the people's heirs to insert their identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, an electronic system established, and that the electronic system is something in which it may be, we should express our suspicion, because by comparing the electronic system with the visual identification in the hall, the persons sitting in the third, fourth and fifth rows on the right and the persons sitting in the seventh, eighth and ninth rows on the left of the chairman, are not MPs or do not have their identification cards. I can get the temporarys in the lobby at the service. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Goran Ćirić, Juhas Atila, Milutin Svetović, Milan Ernjaković, Višnja Nežić, Dragan Lazić, Zoran M. Nikolic, Marko Culibrk, Vasilija Pavicevic, Dragan Jočić, Boško Ristic, Vladan Jovičić, Išpanovic Istvan, Biači Anton and Nada Kolundžija. National MP Srdjan Sikimic was prevented from attending in the morning, and Stanko Kovacevic was prevented from attending in the afternoon. The delay was announced by MP Natasa Micic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF RAD (addition) The word has a National MP Stanko Kovacevic
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14501	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I have reported on behalf of Article 112 and on Article 116. The Rules of Procedure, concerning our decision yesterday, as proposed by MP Zarko Obradovic to work tomorrow or not. We pleaded yesterday, and the result was conditionally unsettled -- 81 MPs said yes, and the rest of the assembly was 81, so it was interpreted as not a decision to work tomorrow. Such behaviour by the MPs in the Serbian Parliament has caused a very negative public odyssey, especially because we advocated the removal of November 29th as a state holiday, especially because both DOS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are calling on all state and social institutions to work tomorrow. It is illogical that MPs plead that we do not work tomorrow. Madam President, I would like to propose that this time we declare that tomorrow the Serbian Parliament is working, as a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia will do. We need to give an example that we're for work too. Please put it to a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14502	I put to vote the proposal of MP Stanko Kovacevic... (National MP Zarko Obradovic asks for a word. ) I ask MP Zarko Obradovic to sit in the seat. If 153 leads us to this session, it won't work. The order of things is next. National MP Stanko Kovacevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, told which members of the Rules of Procedure, submitted the proposal. The proposal will be made known to the Assembly, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic. I ask the MPs to make a statement about the motion that the Assembly is working tomorrow. For 55, the anti-one, abstentioned, did not vote 96, a total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has rejected the proposal of MP Stanko Kovacevic. People's MP Zarko Obradovic, a replica, came forward. The basis of the replica is wrong interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14503	My fellow MPs, a colleague of the previous MP, mentioned a name, and on that basis, I am reporting for a replica. I am glad that the Serbian Parliament did not accept this attempt at legal violence in the Assembly, which tried to stage an MP without the chairman. Secondly, yesterday, during a discussion on the draft labour law, I asked the Assembly to make a statement on whether or not to comply with federal law. I said we're socialists for respecting federal law until it's over. The federal congregation had plenty of time to put the law on the agenda and to abolish it, that it wanted and that it could. That's their problem. Mr. Martian, President of the Assembly, has formulated the question - did you have to work for November 29th? By vote of 162 present MPs, 81 have declared themselves. The proposal didn't get the necessary majority. Mr President said the proposal did not get the required majority and that 29 will not work. That's the whole truth. Please don't rape this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14504	I only ask the People's MP, today's work is, therefore, to sit in your seat and you'll get your word. Would you be good enough to sit in your seat? (He speaks to Branislav Ivkovic, who stands next to the pay phone). You can't get to the pay phone until the chairman gives you his word. I would only ask the MPs to be careful with the use of the word violence. In this procedure, the Chairman was under the Rules of Procedure. When a member of the People's Parliament makes a proposal by the Rules of Procedure, it is then a motion to vote, and no debate is being held. Since I believe that Mr. Zarko Obradovic, as a National MP, has accepted that there is no doubt that I am not carrying out violence in the Assembly, I think we understand each other. MP Alexander Vukic, on what grounds, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? People's MP, on what grounds are you looking for a word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14505	Don't count me this time while Mr. Ivkovic distracted me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must point out to you what the chairman did, and what he shouldn't have done, and look back at what the first speaker was talking about today. Namely, as you know, the Serbian Radical Party is against celebrating such a communist holiday, a day that has brought only misfortune to the Serbian people, and no good, no happiness (you can laugh both cynically and as you wish, it speaks more of you than of me). We were against that holiday, I think, 12 or 13 years ago, when the Serbian Radical Party was founded. Yesterday, we didn't want to get involved at all in what most people wanted. Most people wanted to work the next day, and we didn't want to be against it. So, we'd work tomorrow, tomorrow. However, the National Assembly voted not to work tomorrow. You here instead of giving an interpretation that you can't decide the same thing twice, as there is a rule in the judiciary, you can't decide here twice about the same thing, which decision has already been made. Not to mention the fact that the Rules of Procedure has been injured by the fact that an unauthorized representative called, went out for a pay phone and submitted a certain proposal. So you double-crossed the Rules of Procedure. Whether it's legal violence or you're going to call it some other name, it doesn't matter. It's a violation of legal norms, a very serious violation of legal norms, and it would be good, it would be important if such things didn't happen in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14506	I owe the MP an explanation. So it's about interpreting MP Alexander Vukic that he can't vote twice on the working time of the National Assembly. Okay, we can vote again today and see if we can work on Friday, Saturday, whether or not we'll work until 7:00. The MP who proposed it had given the National Assembly the authority to represent the parliamentary group and was authorised to propose, as well as any MP. The interpretation of Alexander Vukic is such that he is right when it comes to the legal act, this is about the working time of the National Assembly session. Do you want to vote? National MP Branislav Ivković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Have a seat, MP Branislav Ivkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14507	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I would like to address you first, since you and I have four children, I understand your pedagogical proclivities because I am so inclined, but I don't understand why you gave the first word to Mr. Alexander Vukic, and then to me, even though I was the first to ask for a word to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Okay, that's your right, and it's for me to think. I report for breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 24 paragraphs 3 and 4. Article 24 speaks of the education of parliamentary groups, and Article 3 speaks of at least five MPs being able to form a parliamentary group, to be delivered by written means to the assembly of a parliamentary group and, in particular, to the speaker group. For several days now, on behalf of the PDS parliamentary group, Mr Stanko Kovacevic has appeared as chairman of the parliamentary group. I ask that we get a list of the five members of that parliamentary group, who signed it, and where it says Mr Stanko Kovacevic is an MP. As for November 29th, I would ask all present MPs and citizens, first of all, to understand and to understand that here is not a struggle for unhappiness or for work, but here is a fight for principles. If a decision by the Serbian Parliament is made on one issue, the same issue is not voted again after 24 hours. Otherwise, as far as work goes, each of us can measure, what is who in his life and who is worth it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14508	The MP Alexander Vukic came forward before you, and that's the only reason. My sympathies with you two as People's Messengers are divided and equal. So that's not the point. As for your list of facts about how many children we have, I'd really be interested in the course of your births and everything else that was there. National MP Predrag Bajcetic is asking for a word. On what basis are you looking for a word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Only the president of the parliamentary group can ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14509	Please, so as not to be mistaken, while there is a MP group of PDS and while the last soldier is on the line, the president of that parliamentary group is me. I must tell you that with joy, if you throw me out, I will leave this congregation, and with greater joy, I will return to it from spite in the next term. In order for the confusion not to be, please, I think the president of the parliamentary group, that's my style, I'm sorry for being like this, has the right by the Rules of Procedure to empower the expert or the most professional among his colleagues to represent certain laws. For a part of the agenda, the labour law has been authorised as representative of Boris Karaicic. The only thing to respect, be kind, please, is that Mr Kovacevic was not talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but he made a proposal and that's something else. I don't know if he can or can't, but I have to say my personal attitude to Mrs. Comic: something that's been voted on, can't be voted tomorrow, because then we're not serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14510	When it comes to working hours, we can vote in accordance with Article 81. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as during the session of the Assembly, and it would be good if the MPs, who no doubt know the Rules of Procedure, did not prosecute the legal acts and working hours of the Assembly. Given that we have identified all the presidents of the parliamentary groups and that this will not lead to confusion in the work, to continue with the work of the session. The word is by MP Vojislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14511	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is under the impression that in the course of preparations for the adoption of this law many things have come into place. It is understandable that the union is trying to improve the position of the social group it belongs to; the opposition is trying to use the difficult material situation to score certain political points; the government is doing what it is to do, which is to carry out this country through transition, creating conditions for opening new jobs, creating conditions for increasing productivity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14512	I ask the MPs to pay attention and respect their own obligations from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to listen to the speaker and to the course of his exposure without distraction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14513	The problem of productivity has long been not a subject that is rounding up the public in Serbia, so I will remind you that Western research is saying that there are two basic motives for good work: the first and most common motive for good work is fear for job, and the second is the desire for greater income. With us, thanks to the fact that labour rights were the theoretical basis for semi-eternal communist governance of the state, fear for the workplace is an unknown category. On the other hand, thanks to the long-term destruction of the profits, they're so small that they're not a serious motive for work, so of the two most common and most serious motives for good work here we don't have any. This law finally gives responsibility for good work, hence good profit, and then for the social position of workers and their families, evenly divided between the employer and the employee. The current concept, where the employer, whoever it was in the social economy, was the only one responsible for the social position of workers and his family simply did not produce good results. That is why it is necessary to establish the labour market, and the labour market is a difficult match with winners, but there are also winners. What is a break-up with our habits, so I would say even with a newly created mentality, is exactly establishing that personal responsibility for your existence. It is difficult, but it is quite certain that it is also healing. The second goal that this law achieves is to create conditions for job creation and here we can talk about two aspects of this problem. The first aspect of this problem is the establishment of labour law as regulated in European countries. If these regulations correspond to a huge number of our workers in Germany, Austria or Switzerland, I don't know why these same regulations wouldn't fit us here, but it is therefore quite clear that potential investors won't invest their capital in a country where workers' rights and union rights are at that level that virtually disabled highly productive work. I think it's clear to all of us that without new investments and without fresh capital there is no development, there is no new jobs, there is no economic development, but on the contrary, we are threatened by the collapse of the existing economy. Another aspect of the problem of new employment lies in the fact that many employers precisely because once employed by workers about it have to take care practically to retirement and avoid hiring people. So, an employer who employs a worker must take care of him, regardless of all the changed circumstances, regardless of the changes in the market, on the scale of work, on the change of technology, on the poor work of the employee. Regardless of all these circumstances, current practice suggests that the employer must take care of the worker and that is one of the reasons why employers prefer and use other opportunities to do jobs, which is work for a certain time, work through temporary and occasional jobs, through youth and student cooperatives or in other ways. It is only then that when the work contract is terminated becomes practically possible that we can expect faster and new employment to occur. From the point of view of the national economy, it is not crucial whether one job is done, one job or another. The most important number of jobs is the ability to produce goods that meet world standards at prices and quality. Ladies and gentlemen, when a potential buyer, let's say, cars decide whether to buy "damage", "hyundai" or "pejo" he doesn't question what the labour law is like in the Czech Republic, Korea or France. Only two factors are crucial in deciding, which are price and quality. That's the fundamental difference between our previous approach and ours. In the case of socialists, this labour law was a goal for itself, i.e. it was a measure of the quality of the regulation of a state, and with us the labour law is one, the truth very important, instrument for training the economy for market business. That's why it's important for us to look into the truth with this law, get rid of self-rule delusions, and realize that the market is the only one, and that's a very strict arbitration. He's not an arbiter or a labour law, he's not an arbiter, he's not a union, he's not an employer, he's not an employee, he's not a congregation. The only arbiter is the market: whether or not you can produce and sell your product. There's the beginning and end of business philosophy. If we fail to establish a market - if there are no businesses, and there is no business if it does not have that business capacity - then there are no jobs, there is no need to talk about the labour law. I think, technically, this law is just finding a balance between protecting labour rights and market conditions. What is immutable above the power of this assembly is the price of certain goods on the world market and this law is tasked with creating conditions to produce world prices in Serbia. If we are unable to meet that condition, then there is no market economy, there is no economic reforms and there is no involvement in world and European economic flows. This is precisely the ability to produce at market prices is the upper measure of labour and trade union rights. If that upper measure is crossed, then there are no businesses anymore, no jobs, no employees. That picture has all of us together, ladies and gentlemen, in Serbia been looking at it for a decade and that's why this law is stepping in one good direction. These are the reasons why this law has no economically justified alternative. The alternative to this law is the short-term political gain and leaving businesses in a position to be market-free. It's a safe path to long-term economic losses and it's a road that we've all seen many times, and it's actually just a waste of time. It is precisely aware of these responsibilities that Democratic Party MPs will vote in favour of this law, and I call on all other DOS deputies to share that responsibility together and allow for the establishment of a market economy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14514	The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, followed by MP Milija Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14515	It's good when you start working normally. We must express our satisfaction that most have accepted that once a decision is made, it cannot be changed. There would be great repercussions to all the further decisions that would be adopted in the congregation. Then parliament would go some other way. I think that's a good thing, and it would be okay if we started working normally right now, but I'd have to look back at what the minister said last night and I'd start from there. He said, when he explained that this law did not provide for competitions to be called, there was a lot of competitions. That's why he suggested that there should be no competition in this new law and - we solved the problem. So there won't be any furniture. He, as union president, formerly, knows the likely setting up of these competitions, may have been, but that is no reason not to introduce into the new law exactly the clause that the employer undertakes to call the competition. I don't want to talk about it any further. A lot of people have talked about it before. Furthermore, when it comes to the position of women, or maternity leave -- he said we've never been better at protecting women than we are now. I know we've tried that before, that by economic emancipation of women we've managed to sort of bring them into line with other people who have the right to work. We didn't release them from other obligations, followers. Here, first of all, I mean childcare, the whole-day stay of children in preschool institutions. It's only partially solved. We don't have a whole day's stay of children in primary schools without talking about services and other services where we would free a woman from these obligations, so that I could commit myself to political, scientific or any other work. So we haven't changed anything. Now the situation is getting worse, because we're looking practically for a maternity leave, which lasted a year or two, to be reduced to three months. Then we see how much better that position is. Milka reacts, probably; but, ladies, I especially respect you as a colleague, and especially as a woman and mother, I expected that exactly the colleagues will discuss this problem much more and that they will protect women, because they know best what it means whether a woman will be three months in maternity or be a year. So, it was missing, probably for some other reasons. The minister mentioned that women will not work at night - namely, they can work if they sign written consent. You know what that means in the employer. She may not sign, but she will sign another woman or another worker who will work, and after a year an employer certainly an insubordination worker can always fire, precisely because of that. So we haven't solved anything by saying that a woman can sign, but she doesn't have to. It is known in this system, according to this new law, how it will be further regulated. In particular, the minister mentioned that there will be no layoffs under this law, and said one reason that is very good, safe and very guaranteed for all employees, because all directors are now members of DOS, and it is true that from 5 October to today, more than 4,000 directors have been fired. Watch what happens. Now I'm talking first and foremost about social and state-owned companies, where the director has every right, can fire all those who are politically insolent. So we solved that problem, too. This is the result, above all (when it comes to firing), those crisis headquarters, which began, we heard, from above, but they went down. There were also official crisis headquarters, there were unofficial crisis headquarters, there were falsified crisis headquarters, but they acted and they finished their job. When it comes to extra workers, I don't think you should talk, because you know who this law is going to hit. Please, it is no accident, gentlemen, that this law, or bill before entering the assembly procedure, has caused so much controversy in the wider and professional public, and especially in the unions, among the workers. He practically changes the status and position of workers in general. We must admit, though, to the truth of the will, that even under those laws that used to apply, in that centralized period, there were workers who worked according to pay grade, who worked according to self-government laws, but who were also working under this law that now applies, where coefficients practically solve the problem and where conditions were created to get us to one maybe better law. If that's what the government was interested in. It is clear to us that the pressure of the international community, the European Union, has just been conditioned, and is in some way initiated by the Privatisation Act. There's no privatisation without one of these laws that's about to solve this issue. The SPS is against a law like this, not a law that will address the issue of workers and labour discipline. So much earlier, because we are now talking about a law that solves property issues differently. We'll still have state, social property, and we'll have private property anyway. Couldn't we have singled it out and somehow, at least when it comes to state and social property, we have something different. Who can guarantee us that the director of a social or state-owned company wants to receive the best worker, even if he sets up a competition. Who can guarantee that he will receive this employee, the employee who earns the greatest profit? We have to admit that in capitalism, the owner, the employer, does not invest in the means of production, in the workforce, in order to only maintain capital, but to make profit. If so, then to what extent the director who is not the owner of the company will be interested in rewarding just the worker who earned his greatest profit (without talking about other things) or firing the worker who really deserves it. He's gonna fire someone else, for sure, who he doesn't like. Maybe someone will ask if it's different in Europe. Yes, gentlemen, in Europe it's different, they work differently there. But for this law now proposed, some say it would prefer the law on the original accumulation in Serbia, somewhere from the 19th century or the second half of the 19th century, etc. Maybe that's true. However, one thing is certain - that in capitalism the employer will not fire the worker who brings him the profits, because he also lives out of that profit. He won't fire a good worker, not for the union, but we, gentlemen, have a very well-organized union there that takes care of a worker who protects his rights. It's hard for that employer whose firm, because he fired a good worker, comes to the blacklist; he can shut down the company. And with our company, there's a politician who can shut down overnight, so nothing. Therefore, what is even more important - both for the employer and for the worker there is so-called. business morality. We didn't build it and our people are now in some psychological dilemma of what to do. We need to change people's minds to adjust. That's why the SPS, not because it doesn't want a law like this (of course not, it wants a better law), requires that this law be withdrawn from the assembly procedure, that we create conditions so that workers can work later. They remind me of the weather, since it expires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14516	The word has Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14517	I'd like to explain some things. By who knows which time opposition representatives come out here and then misread some of the provisions in the law. The story always ends with the fact that directors under the new bill will be some people who will have broad powers and then those powers will benefit and fire workers because they hate them. I must remind the MPs that we, under the current Labour Law, have much greater powers for directors than this proposed law. I will now read to you a member of the 4th Old Labour Act: "The director of enterprises, institutions, or other organisations (hereinafter: Director) decides on individual rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employee". What does that mean? (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: Read on. ) "If for individual rights, obligations and responsibilities by law is not defined differently". Which means he has unlimited rights. Well, then, Article 137, which regulates the powers of the director (let's say when it comes to disciplinary decorations), the constitution of the 14th very clearly and precisely says: that the director is in the running and running of the disciplinary procedure, says disciplinary measures and what kind of universality the Socialists gave to their directors while they were in power. And why did they give them those rights? So they can handle the factories from a centralized place. Now that one ultimate democratic law is proposed, a law that does not favour directors here comes out with extreme flatulences. Of course, the opposition has the right to always criticise the proposed laws. But here is the question: is the opposition's interest in living well in Serbia too; or is it the opposition's interest to live badly in Serbia; is the opposition arguing that workers are out of work in Serbia; is the opposition trying to keep thousands and thousands of workers out of work? If that's what the opposition's up for, then normally he shouldn't vote for this bill. I think it's an interest and opposition to open up as many jobs here as possible, to keep the standard as high as possible and to make the payments as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14518	The word has a folk MP, Milija Jovanovic (not here). Replica -- an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14519	Dear MPs, here we are, the minister told us again about a law that is reforming, which brings all good. And I ask the minister, what is reforming in this law? Here, the minister says everything. The difference between us socialists and DOS representatives is that we see reform differently. We believe that reforms are an improvement in life and work in every segment of society. In the opinion of DOS and in the view of the Minister of Reform, the following are:insulting collective agreements; reducing maternity leave; abolishing the right to a third child, respectively.... Yes, the use of a higher right to leave for a third child; the reduction of annual leave; the reduction of paid leave; the reduction of sickness benefits; the reduction of severances; these are reforms. And crazy knows it's not a reform. What kind of reform is that? That's the point. Just now, an MP was talking about what is wrong with the current law. The data, he said, is too much of a right for workers and trade unions to have a significant impact so no foreign investor will come. So, big rights were given to workers in the past law. That was good for the workers. And every law is good when it's good for most, for most employees, for most workers, and it's not good when it's just good for some... (Tomislav Nikolic from the site - oligarchy) oligarchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14520	The word has a National MP, Milija Jovanovic, and then Bozidar Vucurovic. The MP Jovanovic is not here, nor is MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dragos Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14521	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will focus my exposure on three essential aspects of this law, given that this is a debate in principle. I believe that motives, purpose and consequences are something that should be undermined under this law. It is absolutely clear from the previous presentations of speakers that this law is necessarily passed, for reasons we all know and there is no need to explain them in particular - the situation in our economy requires such a law as inevitable. On this occasion, I will express one determination shown by the Government in taking responsibility to deal with the problems that are pressing our economy and the absolute determination to make changes which, among other things, regardless of whether they are property, business, organisational and other transformations, will make certain changes and in delicate relations in the way of becoming in our economy, which are the relations between employers and employees. On the basis of conversations with people from the profession, I have concluded that this law in no way reduces the rights of employees in relation to the developed economies of our environment, but I am therefore sure that the obligations and responsibilities are trying to raise them to an even level, among which, in the whole of the past, the elderly who are following our economic development are clearly disproportionate. Just between the rights, on the one hand, and the obligations and responsibilities of the employees, on the other hand, there was one striking difference and disproportionate, so the whole legislative regulations and especially practices allowed for greatness and favouring precisely the rights, while obligations and responsibilities were of secondary importance. This should not even be surprising given that the profitability, efficiency and competitiveness of operators on the market were mostly declarative, since some other signs in the so-called so-called ‘. the agreed economy was more intrusive. I would also like to point out this occasion of obligations and responsibilities, this law raises them to a striking level, precisely these disproportionateities have contributed to the creation of one concept which is unknown to developed and medium-developed economies, which is the notion of unemployed, or unemployed. Despite all the objective causes which are back 10 or 20 years inconsequential -- inefficiencies, incompetence, poor technological preparation -- and also this disproportionate, which we are talking about today, on rights and obligations, has a significant share in the negative results of our economy in the emergence of European markets and the emergence of a great burden on our economic operators, who themselves, (as a skillfully the state apparatus has set up such a problem, as a social problem) were unable to solve. Generally and simplistically looking at the problem of these relationships, which are in fact a necessary combination of opposing interests, the employer, on the one hand, insists on making the market as competitive as possible to achieve one excess value or profit, as it is said, while on the other hand employees are mostly interested in increasing their standard of living because they want, aware of their participation in the share of excess value, to increase their share as much as possible. Of course, the only logical solution by consensus is an agreement, or compromise. And that particular feature, that's what I want to underline, this law contains. This is the negotiating level that the employer and employees possess, whether it is collective agreements; individual contracts; the influence of the union; the advice of employees or individuals. What must be noted, and back a few months ago this law was in public debate, it's a certain reluctance of quite a number of people according to the law. In my opinion, that reluctance mostly arises for three reasons. The first reason is the general ignorance, ignorance and lack of interest of the employees of the case and details of the proposed text of the law. Then, mainly relying on malicious interpretations of those who, metaphorically, are treated as a layer of people who are "not waves", i.e. for status quo, who are only formally employed in this situation and have a vision of existence through the gray economy, working on black etc. Another reason is the obvious concern and uncertainty of a considerable number of people, who care for their fate and future in the working sense, given these laws, start from privatisation to labour law. They are faced with something that is understandable at this point -- a lack of confidence in the promise or the possibility of future employment, a solution through requalification or additional severance, which would allow some private businesses. Of course, they doubt the possibility and reality that the government will be able to do so in good time. The third reason for reluctance under this law lies mainly with that layer of people who, priori, are against all that is like or at least a hint of the law that reminds them of some capitalist law, since for them such laws are mostly cruel, ruthless and prioritized to protect the employer at the expense of the employee. What I want to express as my position this time is that I really expect this law to follow and must be a key support for a quality, realistic and enforceable social programme. Only such a social programme, for which the government is responsible, especially with all those institutions that have to support it, I mean judicial and social institutions, can only bring the expected results, which should indicate positive changes. What I might say as a personal point of view is that even previous state appliances in the years before us, decades or two, have seen the unskilled results of the economic system that existed. Perhaps some measures and intentions, which they wanted to carry out gradually and in walking, failed, precisely because such a social programme was not able to implement. One of the reasons for their failure can also be sought in a political sense. What gives a hint that this government, whether federal or republican, will succeed in this achievement, is exactly what allows future economic operators, and also businesses in general, to communicate with the world. Not only so far, in the fluctuation of the workforce, unfortunately, the most qualitative labour force we've exported to the world, but also goods and capital. This will allow for its real achievement, I mean the social programme, because only in such a way, by communicating with the world in every way, in the fluctuation of labour force, goods and capital, can some progress be expected and some improvement in our future work. Since this debate is in principle, I have no intention of commenting on specific details, either in this legislative project, whether it is a minimum wage, criteria for its determination, contracts, collective agreements, individual contracts on the protection of workers when they are prevented from carrying out their duties, the cancellation and criteria that justify it, etc., as well as on the mass of these details, because I believe that the number of amendments submitted and adopted by the Committee and the Government may additionally give special quality to the proposed text of the law. I will also avoid telling the court about the quality and value of this bill, for the simple reason that, however it is interpreted, positive or negative, by experts, experts, people with experience or layman, the law and the only metric assessment of the results of this legal project is precisely the result of its implementation in practice. Only such a result can be relevant and reliable information on the effects of this law. In that, it is a huge responsibility of the government and a crucial test of the government's success, so if you want most of this Parliament to trust this government. For the reasons that I've put forward by saying about the Privatisation Act and this law, I'm confident that he'll make the initial, expected positive swing for our, unfortunately, dormant and atrophed economy. In that sense, I'm an optimist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14522	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a radical and as someone who writes songs, I feel disabled after yesterday's divine lyrics that I heard from this pay phone from my fellow speaker, but given the fact that not everyone can be Ovidius or Lorca, I will tell my departure to this law, even if I risked staying at the level of a mediocre satiric: "The new proposal of dear government to us our sixth version of the labour law protects owners and rich people, to take more, to steal better; it showed a good government, how to watch out for its workers, so it saves them by a miraculous measure of cancelation; when the boss comes from the white world, to collect money like water, to plow, to a quiet circle of factory walks, not to bother him with the labor crowd. For those who remain a miracle, a huge minimumer smiles, thanks to the law of the crazy, who he comes up with a former union; they will, and neither the debtor nor the guilty, spin their causes, work until as long as they live, or somewhat shorter, until their death; the pension fund is, it tells us, empty, so the minister, the working mother, will frame them for an empty penalty, without contract, salary and strike. And the minister is sweet, although he has no broom and brushes, and he's got an important job, because he has an important brother from his aunt; the overcrowding of Serbia is a pain in the ass, the birth is gone, what our children are going to do, it's going to sound really good for the maternity care of up to three months; and then, straight to the halls, so they don't get paid, while moms are doing for the money, so long as the kids are breastfeeding their dads. The law is missing, nothing is worth it, so after all, by the way and after, you realize what's in the middle, what kind of minister, what kind of law; when the dice finally agree, it shouldn't be clear enough, in this country really anything can, that the unionman is a minister. "
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14524	The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14525	I'm going to start, and I'm going to end it safely so that this law is bad, that it needs to be withdrawn for peace in this country. Why--I'll explain it and try to explain it to everyone. With this DOS law, the government wants to significantly change the situation in our country. This primarily refers to the position, rights and obligations of employees, on the one hand, and the authority of employers, on the other hand. By passing this law, DOS wants to create conditions and assumptions for large redundancies of workers and the creation of insecurity of employees. In defence of the interests of employees, the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia, the Association of Independent and Free Unions, the United Border Unions "Independence", and I believe even citizens whose representatives participated in the preparation of the labour law. The government, as the legislator of this law, has significantly deviated from those solutions that were in line with the unions at the time of their joint work on this law. My main remark, as one of the MPs, refers primarily to the fact that the conditions of the establishment of work, i.e. the release are extremely liberal, so that employers have great authority over employees. They can hire and fire whoever they want, without adequate procedure and without greater legal criteria, only if they like it or don't like it. As part of the chapters of maternity leave and absence from work, maternity leave is reduced from 365 days to three months, only during this period an employed woman is paid full compensation, and the other period of care of the child is significantly reduced. Special attention must be paid to provisions relating to the conclusion of collective agreements. Contrary to trade unions, the government advocates solutions that do not commit to the conclusion of a collective agreement: because it wants to endanger the safety of employees and take full power over them; because, in parallel with the privatisation that is under way, it would allow employers to fire more easily and faster on dozens, hundreds and thousands of workers, whose fate they are not even interested in. The evidence is that neither this nor any other law provides for any transitional status of these workers, which will be socially endangered. The government and its employers are only interested in profit that will be achieved by the sale of social and state assets, as well as by firing a large number of employees in all areas of work. Since the adoption of the agenda of this session, the SPS and its MPs have proposed that this bill as a bad withdrawal from the procedure, but the DOS authorities and its government have sought to manipulate workers and trade unions, after which they have subsequently pledged to improve their amendments to the draft labour law, which primarily refers to collective agreements, but also to other issues, such as labour relations, resignation and labour contracts. It is now clear that the government has no intention to adequately address the issue of the rights and obligations of workers, that only 19 half-accepted unions, out of a total of 50 amendments, which were agreed with the government and parliamentary groups in the negotiation process. The DOS parties, as it turns out, and these negotiations lead them, want to tear them apart, to agree, to pass these other laws, as laws on justice. So this is where the store came in, and that's probably why this bill is going to be passed, unfortunately for all the employees. Workers will lose not only to safety and protection, but to any profit and lose their jobs, unless they are organised against this and this government. This is what I'm saying, I repeat, withdraw the law in time. There'll be a lot more peace, and it'll be better for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14526	The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the word, followed by Parliament MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the Vojvodina Coalition are known for our ability to criticize our own side when we think she's wrong. For this draft labour law, I must say at first, that we think it is good, that it is in line with European legislation and that we will certainly support it. So, the government has delivered us a good bill, but what we're looking forward to is that we've encountered a constructiveity among the heads of the most powerful unions in the country. We've been having talks and we've established that unlike the former government, unions have more understanding for the government. At no time did they try to seek anything that would violate the whole of the law, unlike the previous government that allegedly defends them. The work's constructiveity reflects the words of Mr. Smiljanic, the head of the Independent Union, who, after the talks, said that he now sees clearly the face of a new Serbia, which is ready for compromises and concessions as a representative of the labour union. I hope I quoted him correctly. That was said at a press conference immediately after talks with representatives of the DOS parliamentary group, which found time to talk to them, just as they held talks with all the heads of parliament. Let me also say that, as far as the worker is concerned, we could have made a much better law on paper. As the previous government did, we could make a list of good wishes, make an inconclusive law, and then see if it can be implemented or not. We could have written in the law that workers can't lose their jobs, that once they're hired, they're in the factory for life, they're hired by these kids, they retire, they die there, they get funeral costs, etc. We could have written that mothers don't have to work at all, that fathers don't have to work. We could have written that the guaranteed minimum profit was 35,000 marks. We could have written it all, but the union representatives and we were aware that we needed to write something that could be implemented and that could live in practice. So we weren't on the capital side. We were more on the side of the workers, they made it clear how long they intend to go and what will not endanger the whole of the law. We could've written there that Tito didn't die, we could've written that Bane was still wearing a staff. We could have written that Cardellus was writing a law on joint labor, that he was in effect indefinitely. We could have predicted courts for the law on joint labor, we could have trained judges. We could write that Marxism is mandatory in the factory. We could write that the talk - the beloved leader must listen to the workers at the factory while working on lunch breaks. We could have written anything, but we didn't. We wrote, I repeat, what is enforceable. We wish we had a better state, if we hadn't gotten a broken economy, if we hadn't gotten $25 billion in external and internal debt, which is 2.5 gross annual social national products, and by economic theory, as I recall, when the country's external and internal debt crosses 80%, it's considered to be bankrupt. You left us a state that went bankrupt three times. Instead of covering your ears, as our people say, no shame or shame, you dare yet to criticise such a law. So, gentlemen of the former government, let's see who's to blame for this, and you're certainly guilty of the state of affairs. You can't say now that in less than a year it takes us to correct what you're 50, and for some 10 years, you've systematically ruined it. How did we get to this? 12 years ago, your beloved leader and your beloved coalition partner told workers who had gathered to support him: "Now, everyone on their work assignments." After that, he soon said, "If we don't know we're working, we know we're fighting," so he gave the workers guns instead of jobs. So overnight the locksmiths, the scrapers, the rodents became warriors, fought for your territories. You said the target was territory. You sacrificed a worker, you sacrificed people for territories. You've lost both people and territories, jobs have been lost, and there's been a war on the doctrine of a doctor, who's well watered -- universal defense and social self-defense. When the workers returned from that war, yours, along with the evasive population you protected by voting in the Serbian Parliament, the workers found that their jobs were gone. The first thing you said was that your great leader and your great coalition partner said: "Sanctions can't do anything to us, they're a challenge to the vital Serbian economy." And then you said, "Sanctions are for everyone." You don't trust yourself. Who could have trusted you more? So when the workers came back, when they saw that their jobs were gone, that there were no salaries, then you came up with a new business, your business: Latin American privatisation, picking up the cherry, unloaded beer crates, smuggling...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14528	Please stick to the subject, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14529	I'm talking about the draft labour law, I'm saying no capital has no jobs, and I'm saying that gentlemen from the former government, who resent us today, they've listed the jobs of the workers, that it's the head that ate her body and fell down. So she ate the capital. They made the workers poor and made the factories of a social institution. How the workers lost their jobs, then you opened up new ones on the street to smuggle your gasoline, to smuggle your cigarettes. That's how you came up with a cheap labor force for your dubious jobs. Today, these social institutions, these factories that have about 40,000, which are in bankruptcy, come to the Serbian government and say -- we have 40,000 workers, we have 3,000 workers. They write an elborate out of which they clearly see that they need money for five or six salaries and say this - is that we don't work, but you have to give us money for the salary. And we say -- how? All you've earned, share. The amount of profit depends on how much money is earned. They say -- you know, if you don't give money, we'll bring three or 30,000 workers to the capital and you'll fall. We usually say, bring us in, take us down from power, but the money you didn't earn, you can't get that easy. And today, gentlemen, who have ruined all the jobs that have ruined everything that could have been ruined, we resent the new law. Yesterday they even said that the law did not cover farmers and that this year 2001 is the worst year for peasants. That's not true. We agree that for years they have been neglected, that they do not know what summering, wintering, camping, vacationing, etc. is all spoken of on your part. But this is the first government to pay attention to them and this year they get the best price for their work. We will make sure that the peasants in us recognize the political power that will fight for their interests, and you gentlemen, who led to this, need to know that you've gotten away with what you've done in this country as an ex-government. You're so good, Mira Markovice won't take you either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14530	Replica - Mr. Vukic, then replica - Mr. Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14531	You don't say - what's the replica, but you should finish some grade elementary school to know that, and my predecessor didn't finish it. I didn't recognize myself in this last one, I guess some other party from some other party will say, I'll tell you what I recognized and what I have to answer to, Mr. Risticevic. What you were talking about, the way you were saying-- that someone wanted to listen, and whoever was in charge of it had to not give you a warning, but to take you away from the session. You are talking about European laws and saying that something is in line with European law. You have no idea, you've never seen any European law. You didn't see him, let alone read him. You know it well and everyone knows it in this congregation. Tell me, what European law have you ever read in your life? You've never even seen him, you have no idea. As for your remarks about who finished what school, and some international defense you mentioned, I recognized here, you meant the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, I must tell you that you are lying. You're lying because Professor Vojislav Seselj doctored on the subject: "Political essence of militarism and fascism", at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Now, you are as much a liar as all your media, in which you have used them and abused them, such lies have been repeated dozens of times. I, of course, am not worried that you will never be able to dream of finishing school, not with such success and with such speed as Mr. Seselj did, but that you will never be able to do as average, ordinary people and ordinary citizens of Serbia do. I have something else to answer. You mentioned some business cigarettes here, oil, I don't know what. That's what you do, the sea. That's what you of this government do, Mr. Risticevic. And your boss is a thief. He is a well-known poacher, caught several times in the Deliblat Cave and in many other places across the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. So much so you know. No one has caught us in the thieving, no one is going to catch us in the hole, because we are honest and honest people, unlike you; we are not ashamed of anyone and we are not ashamed of anyone and we are allowed to come everywhere and every man and every citizen to look at our faces, because we have cheeks. Another much more dangerous thing you were talking about: you were talking about wars, about how someone, business, was doing, sending people into wars. Don't forget, Mr. Risticevic, you were an MP (don't be nervous and don't throw it away) in the last term. Your colleague was our MP, Serbian Radical Party MP Dragan Milunovic - Djule. He lost his life, laid his life on the altar of the country, defending Kosovo and Metohija. The only MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, an SRS MP, not you. And never again play with such things, and do not insult the families of our people, nor the feelings of all the people who laid their lives on the altar of the homeland, and you will insult them, you who were in the hole of the mouse. The worst mice in Serbia and Yugoslavia, which you surfaced today. We'll never...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14532	Mr. Wolfie, I'm asking you to finish. Mr. Risticevic, you've been talking for ten minutes, you've been talking about two parliamentary groups present here. Don't play now, you're the one who caused the replica. Ten minutes you were talking, you weren't talking about the law, you were talking about what... What isn't true? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14533	As an SPS MP, I would like to express my protest over the evaluations we've heard from fellow MPs, malicious evaluations of the past ten years. In fact, we socialists have never run away from our responsibility for everything that happened between 1990 and 2000. The Socialist Party of Serbia then organised power and of course we were responsible, both as a party and individually. And that thing is standing. The grades that have been presented are extremely malicious. I think in this House sooner or later, but rather sooner than later, it will also have to be heard from MPs of the assembly majority, honor for exceptions, things that are persistently ignored and persistently skipped. These things are related to our past, to the way the splintered SFRY, who helped, who actively participated, who made decisions or decisions to support the republics of the former SFRY, who supported Albanian terrorists in Kosovo, and all those things that were related to our close past -- who bombed this country, who did $100 billion damage, and we talked about it all. Please, I have in my hand the data made by the IMF. So, it's not SPS data, it's not MPs' data, it's black in the white picture of Yugoslavia. Alone, and with our coalition partners, we have been an economy that has been exposed to sanctions since 1992 as much, with production, with employment and with all those side effects that were in that state. And we're proud of it. Look at 1999, when it was war and 2000, when it was growing again. They're facts, and we didn't write this. The second thing, regarding the claim that the unions participated in this, we as a parliamentary group received today a letter from the Union Council of Unions and I will read only two views to the MPs. We have no reason to be a spokesman for any union, but we have accepted only the obligation, as well as any parliamentary group, to participate in the conversation, with the intention of improving the bill, if possible, for the sake of employees. However, what happened happened and, truth be told, I would like to read to you only two views: "The Union of Unions has expressed a fierce protest that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has deafened on the people's initiative to withdraw labour law from the assembly procedure, which was signed by 97,000 citizens." The following position: "If only the amendments to which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given its consent are accepted, the Union will initiate the procedure for assessing the constitutionality and legality of certain members of the labour law in relation to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Fundamentals of Working Relations and the Ratified International Convention." Of course, this will not be possible, at least when it comes to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, until the assembly majority elects judges who will be able to assess the constitutionality of not only this, but over 100 regulations brought by the Serbian Government in the meantime and on the basis of which it rules this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14534	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Lucic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14535	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to draw attention to a detail that is related to the finding that a part of us may have been hiding in the muscle holes or elsewhere. From this point on, I can say that during the 1999 period during the bombing, I spent the uniform of the Yugoslav Army wearing a red beret, as well as a large portion of the people present in the parliamentary benches, MPs of DOS. We were where our duty required us to be. I feel so much that the unacceptable finding that has been made for this speaker is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14536	I gave him my word in the Rules of Procedure, and he misused the wording of the Rules of Procedure, and it's a daily phenomenon. Everyone behave as the MPs tell him to, and I can't react in 10 seconds. I'm sure he abused the law. Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14537	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the strange assembly majority decided not to work tomorrow, I'd like to ask you to trade at least today's fight with work. From what the IMF has said about the quality of government over the past 10 years, none of the ones we've been trying to change today will benefit, because they don't live. Try to follow logic and order in everything. Try once, one of you 37 (as many of you as there are within the Socialist Party of Serbia) to tell us what you're telling us as soon as you get out of this room, to congratulate us on the courage of the law we're making, which you also support, which you can't bring. Come out once, you successful businessmen, with the collective contracts of the company you ran. Come out once with the mothering supplements you've been paying for. Come out once with the maternity leave that you respected, and then we'll have some understanding for you, and by then it'll be just a mere argument. So pay attention to the facts, the members of the law we're talking about. In what was left behind, no one was happy, I believe that neither you as a government enjoyed what was happening. Therefore, there are many members in this labour law that can be seriously discussed and there is no member who could become the subject of an unargumented argument. Since you decided not to work tomorrow, I suggest you respect what you have to respect, because the citizens have chosen you by their election decision to work here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14538	Mr. Obradovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14539	I won't keep you long, believe me. There's more of me behind this pay phone today than you might need, but I have to say this. Mr. Jovanovic, our party certainly did not say a single nice word about what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. We have enough arguments in favour of the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia is working badly and that it needs to be replaced as soon as possible by another government, which -- the Serbian citizens will decide. The other thing is, if there's one of the socialists who gives you compliments individually, here's a congregation pay phone, say his name, and the other MPs will know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14540	The People's MP Dragan Marsican has the word, and after him, the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to try to say a little bit about the labour law we're considering today. What we all no doubt agree on is that we are discussing one of the most important laws; and this assembly should adopt one of those laws on which a new democratic and legal state will be based. What most no doubt agree on is that this new labour law must be reformable, must allow for transformation, change, reform in the economy, in social activities, in the bodies of the administration. This is something that I think has the support of most of the MPs who are in the National Assembly today. If that is the case, and I am absolutely sure and I am telling you that this is the case, then the fact that such a proposal, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has delivered to the National Assembly, does not have majority support among MPs. That fact does not say what Quasireform government appologists here said on several occasions yesterday, which is that this is about the conflict of those who are for reform and those who are against reform. It is simply a replacement of thesis, and it is a lie that is presented in the manner we are used to from the time of Josip Broz and Slobodan Milosevic, which today applies the Bureau of Disinformation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is not good to enter the Assembly Hall. It's that we here need to pass reform law, so no doubt quite different from what is present today, valid. But not only reform, but also good reform law. What does good reform law mean, and what are our obligations, our country's obligations in the first place, and what is the interest of our country? On the one hand, we ourselves and the citizens of this country are obliged to make such changes that, over time, by changing the system, will bring us into order of the European countries and introduce us within a reasonable period, as short as possible, into the order of the Member States of the European Union. In order to do so, we must bring domestic legislation into line, including the Labour Act, with European standards. Not only this law, all our laws must be consistent with the laws and written by standards that apply in developed European countries. Therefore, this harmonisation of legislation, the establishment of a rule of law, the establishment of a rule of law, and not the rule of organised crime and political oligarchy, the establishment of institutions, solid and respectable, once again brought into line with the institutions of the European Union, that is the topic, because the Labour Act (reforming) can also help (deformation) to a large extent to prevent it. These are the obligations we have ahead of us, those are ours, anyway (if someone forgets to remind me), electoral obligations and the DOS election programme. That's what we have to do here, among other things, by passing quality labour laws, to realize. In order for such changes, as well as the changes made by the labour law, to be implemented, it is necessary to have a political and social consensus. All countries in transition, in order to go as easily as possible through transition processes, it is necessary to reach within themselves a social consensus on how these changes will be done. Do we generally not have that social and political consensus? Do we have that consensus when it comes to the labour law? So the question arises, on the one hand, the compliance of this law with the International Labour Organisation conventions, compliance with European standards, and on the other hand, whether we have the government's social consensus, employers, employees, when it comes to this fundamentally important law. On several occasions, representatives of the unions and representatives of the government, and yesterday some of the MPs, were false about compliance and the position of the International Labour Organisation. It is true that the bill does not have the support of the International Labour Organisation, and it is also false and that it has the support of the International Labour Organisation. Simply, the latest version of the draft law has not been made clear by the International Labour Organisation. Since she hasn't come forward, then no one can say she doesn't have any, no one can say she doesn't have any support. It's just like that, I heard it in meetings with the representatives of the International Labour Organization. When I hear something with my ears, I believe a lot more than when I hear from the mouth of the representatives of any union, any government. Thus, the International Labour Organization had some 70 pages on its first version in June (and it is shown to me, it seems, here on some earlier occasions) of extremely serious objections to the first and original version of the law. This version has been very modified in relation to that version. It has not been officially declared by the International Organisation. That's where it was manipulated on both sides and that's what I want to point out here, so you can keep that in mind when you decide. In addition, it should be noted that when the International Labour Organisation takes a position on the bill, it is merely an opinion on compliance with international conventions; when there is, when there are no direct conflicts, it gives a positive opinion. In doing so, compliance with the International Labour Organisation Convention leaves very much room for political decisions and the introduction of those provisions into laws which respect the specificity of the country to which the law applies. So that's what we're deciding here, otherwise a state law would be prescribed, which would serve as an example, could no longer go left or right. No, that's not true. Simply, there is always a very large space that every country, in accordance with European legislation, brings home regulations and domestic laws, which will be applicable in the country and which will ensure that this law meets the specific situation of each country. Is this where it was done? It's not. That is why the DSS has also proposed that the National Assembly adopt a large number of amendments, believing that the law is basically reformable, if these essential things, which we do not think have found a good solution in the bill, are corrected by amendments. By accepting all amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia, proposed by the Assembly, we can accept the law. I repeat, any amendments proposed by the DSS (except those withdrawn) to the adoption of the National Assembly. This is about fundamental changes to the bill. Secondly, has a consensus been reached? We, unfortunately, find ourselves on such occasions that the consensus is otherwise difficult to achieve. First, there is no political consensus in all these issues, and for being gone, we are responsible, we are guilty. On the other hand, there are also objective circumstances that make this reaching consensus difficult, and that is because we do not have, in fact, authentic representatives of the interests of employees. The unions are what they are, but it's not ours, anyway, to appreciate what they are. First of all, it's the job of the employees, so those whose interest they protect. That doesn't take much to deal with. It's our job to find a partner, i.e. First of all, the government finds a partner to talk to employee representatives. They're unions at this point, just the way they are. On the other hand, the question arises as to who the employers are. There is also a big problem, but it is certain that employers can't be representatives of the World Bank, for example. They have to be searched here. So the experience of the world can be consulted, the experience of Western countries can be consulted, but the consensus must be achieved here and there must be an adequate talker here, to ensure the conditions that the law on work being brought here does not constitute a generator of conflict, crisis, that in the end, instead of encouraging reforms, it does not turn into an act that will stop and stop reforms. From there, every story has been deplaced that an effort to reach consensus, an effort to repair these laws, is an obstacle to the reform process. It seems to me this way that I've been able to explain the circumstances in which this law is being passed. To mention briefly to you that the amendments to the DSS, which we will insist on being accepted (and if not, we will not be able to support the labour law), aim to keep this law in line with the conventions of the International Labour Organisation, to be a modern reform law, which largely respects the specificities of Serbia as a country entering the transition process, in the process of radical changes in the economy and in society, which respects and, as well as the specificities of social and economic opportunities in the country. The DSS is trying to achieve as high a degree of balance of interests as possible between employers and employees who have to be reflected in this law by these amendments and by opening discussions with union representatives, as well as with the amendments discussed with trade unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14542	The word has a minister for work, Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14543	Dear Presidency, I just want to explain a few things about the International Labour Organization. The IOR was actively involved in the making of this law. Representatives of the International Labour Organisation stayed in our country on three occasions and actively participated in the drafting of this law. They see whether the law is in line with international conventions ratified by an IOR member state. The SRJ has ratified certain conventions and all these conventions are incorporated into this law. Representatives of the International Labour Organisation, Mr Bronstein, Mr Geleb, were guests of this assembly and spoke with representatives of parliamentary groups, where they suggested that the law was in line with the International Labour Organisation conventions. At the last meeting, held on Zlatibor, I think it was October 13th, this law was backed by the International Labour Organisation. So much for whether the law is in agreement with the conventions. After all, it will always be possible to check through the International Labour Organisation, which is there to determine whether or not it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14544	It's a replica after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14545	It doesn't have to be overwhelming in making decisions, but it just doesn't. Mr.... (speaks - minister lies). No, maybe we're just interpreting things differently. Mr. Bronstein is not the International Labour Organization. He's an individual. The individual here spoke to experts, experts, I suppose, all MP groups. I've already said - the International Labour Organization appreciates compliance with international conventions. This consistency is not disputed. She's not controversial. In some elements, it was controversial, but it is essentially not controversial. The bill on that side is not controversial. The international organisation of work does not express the court's decisions, and different solutions are possible only to comply with international conventions. Could be maternity leave for three months, six months and 12 months. It is not appreciated by the International Labour Organization, at least Mr Bronstein on Zlatibor. This is appreciated in another way, here in the Assembly, because it is a political decision, and it is harmonised both, and the other, and a third solution with the International Organisation's conventions. That is why I insist on this when it is said that there is or is no support; there is no official - because Mr Bronstein was here and talked, in my opinion it is okay, but it is not the official position of the International Labour Organisation, otherwise it is obtained an official document with the signature and seal of the competent person. (Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, from the place: E, so they don't give it. If they don't, then there's no support. Secondly, the more important question is: what are the solutions that we are deciding here today, not the International Labour Organisation, in the context of what can be interpreted under harmonised solutions. There's a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14546	The right to replica has Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14547	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would still like to ask you to behave properly. Believe me, the limits of decency do not respect the limits of the party I represent here in parliament. A very serious remark has been made not only because Mr. Marsican is the president of the Assembly, but because we here need to make a decision that makes this law a certain conflict with international labour legislation. I will propose to the presidents of the parliamentary groups that we, in the break, analyse from international regulations, among other things, the 107 Convention of the International Labour Organisation, to make sure once again what we have convinced ourselves in the discussion with the representatives of the unions - that there is no member of this law that is in conflict with the international conventions that we have signed and which is protected by the International Labour Organisation. It is true that Mr. Bronstein is not the International Labour Organisation, but let's hear the name and name of that international organisation, if it isn't enough to talk to the deputy director of that organization, then let's see who this representative person is that we're going to meet with. But that logic neither Vojislav Kostunica nor Zoran Djindjic are the federal state, or the Republic government, but we should probably talk to each citizen in person. I'm asking you to still focus this debate on facts and arguments. We discussed with the deputy director of the International Labour Organisation, in order to fully comply with the law on working with international conventions, which -- not the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, but the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1970, and we are obliged to respect it today. So, no segment of labour legislation that we propose is in conflict with the signed and adopted conventions, nor is our working legislation being set in a different way towards a worker than modern Europe's labour legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14548	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14549	Gentlemen and distinguished citizens of Serbia, as your representative in this House, I would like to inform you that the bill of this law is another attack by DOS authority on you and your life. In this House, there are a small number of MPs who are from the economy -- either students or who have done other administrative work, so they are very little familiar with economic problems. I know the problems of workers well, because I've been in the economy for more than 20 years, and I've started my working life just as a worker. Mr Cedomir Jovanovic points out yesterday after a pay phone to separate work from work and I agree, but so you did not, Cedomire Jovanovic, with your leaders in the pre-election campaign, speak to the citizens of Serbia, but promised them help and donations from the West worth six billion dollars, that is, you kept mentioning the begging aid of the London and Paris Club. You are constantly pointing out the example of the West and the countries in transition, you were probably referring to newly combined businessmen of suspected morality, who have now legalised their capital, and are showing it as you, Mr. Cedomire Jovanovic, on Serbia's hypodroms. The proposal is reportedly in line with socially-oriented structures and with representatives of parliamentary groups. Instead of being submitted to the Labour Law proposal, the government participated and conducted a dialogue with the representatives of the workers, she gave it to representatives of the parliamentary groups because she was afraid of the real truth. It shows here that workers have been deceived by the government, by representatives of the parliamentary clubs and by their representatives. Laws are passed as in the past, just in a revolutionary way, behind the backs of those who are concerned, even though it is known or must be known that the adoption of this very bill will cause a social injustice of great proportions. Your cynical smile on Mr. Jovanovic's face, saying that all the riots would be suppressed, and the law would be enforced by force -- it liked to no one, just like in dictatorial regimes. It can be seen that this country is ruled by the oligarchy of the ruling set, which wants to privatise the country completely. In the election campaign and upon coming to power, you said that your work, both the Prime Minister and the Ministers, would be transparent, i.e. that your private capital, before entering certain functions, will be publicly listed. You're lying! It would be good to conduct a transparent control of your capital after a year. With this capital, you are now buying businesses in Serbia and those that do well. That's why you need this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14550	The word has the People's Messenger Siniša Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14551	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, honourable ministers, on frequent quasi- and literary presentations in Parliament, I propose that we organise a day of piratery so that we can compete for the interpretation of events in Serbia. The debate on labour law, reform law on Serbian economy, economy and democracy, has been translated from scientific, trade union and journalistic circles into parliament, which should mark the end of the state economy and open a process that introduces us to a new economic order. The very process of deciding on the labour law has been announced as a political marathon, which will finally place us here in Parliament as reformists and conservatives - left-wings and liberals. Discarding labour law will strengthen left-wing forces, will try to add conservative ideological comrades who would once again shake Serbia's government and thus put moratorium on reforms. We belong to the ideal political option, which stands for the fundamental position of the market, for human freedoms, for private property and for the country's minimal interference in the economy. The bearers of the second concept, marked as a leftist concept, advocate social justice, equality and a powerful state that regulates the market. Respecting politicians and political elites who advocate the leftist concept, we must agree that he has experienced a historic failure, we must agree that he has proved ineffective, because he has produced a million and two hundred thousand unemployed, poverty, high inflation, national robbery and imperceptibility. Therefore, fellow MPs, the debate on the labour law cannot be conducted with the political philosophy of left-wing, but that is why we are so different. What happens to the unions -- the unions in Serbia, at the announcement of the reform law, brought together allies in elected political parties, opened dialogue with the government and Parliament, and very unknowingly tried to defend something that could be categorized as -- let's be realistic, we are looking for the impossible; or something that appeared on the banners in the union protest -- we are not going to be a labour force. But the union will reform itself in the market economy, be the real partner of the government, the corrective policy factor and the only legal protector of workers and workers' rights, not the undertaker of their fate, which offers them equality in poverty instead of work. The problem of the union protest is the problem of the mental philosophy of its union leaders, and I am glad that there are significant movements there too. The union's biggest problem is, as it claims, the problem of collective agreements. The obligation and purpose of this law is that the employer and the union must negotiate, I am confident that the law encourages negotiation, and what the employer and trade unions agree on, is the subject of their settlement. It is normal that they cannot go below legal solutions, because legal solutions are the minimum they must find in their negotiations. After all, the collective contract was designed by employers, not trade unions. Employers need social peace, they need a guarantee that they can plan and organise production, as well as a contract that would at least protect their profits and business. Fellow MPs, this government has received a mandate from the people and has chosen a reform path, in which there is no contract with anyone, with any group. The government and Parliament are obliged to create an economic and social environment, to implement reforms, introduce a market economy and enable investment and economic growth. The experience of transition countries clearly states that all reform governments in the re-election failed, were punished by the people in the free elections. So be it in Serbia, but let the reforms succeed, let production be launched, new jobs are created, large systems are transferred, productivity is increased, quality management is ensured, trade marks from Serbia, and a market economy is established. Such an economy, efficient and cruel, will blow away political elites and politicians who advocate equality in poverty. My fellow MPs, this is about choice, and every time you choose, you lose someone or something. In the case of labour laws, profits, black marketers, lose dishonest, lose half-breeds, and get only working, valuable, quality and professional, get quality masters, engineers. For such a country to fight, to allow them to create more, to live from their work. Respected citizens, advocates of the leftist concept, have shown their devastating mistakes -- families, marriages, factories, cities have been destroyed, economic emigration of young people as one state's largest intellectual fund. The success of reform allows us to live better, change cars, go on vacations, rebuild furniture, white technique. So let's give the economy a chance. Finally, what is passed by the labour law - the possibility of earning, greater legal certainty for employees, the rights and obligations of employers and employees to comply with obligations undertaken by law, strict sanctions for employers for non-compliance with the law and labour contracts. The law opens up opportunities for new types of employment, protection of minors, protection of employees in determining their rights; protection when it comes to determining working time, rest, the role of unions and sanctioning employers. Fellow MPs, if we want to do well in Serbia, support the labour law, ignore world conspiracy stories, the IMF, the collective sale of Serbia, some new colony in the Balkans. We don't deserve that. No one here will win, no government, no opponents of the law. It would be easier to offer social peace, to extend this economic tragedy, but we don't have a mandate for that. A new democracy, as a party to the liberal principles, will support the law, and I am confident that the parties of the right centre, which were promoted yesterday in parliament, will do so. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14552	He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14553	Article 101(1) has been injured. The former did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Many accusations have been made here on account of those who, by God, have so far represented left-wing ideas, even in working relationships. Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic signed the Labour Relations Act on 25 December 1996, which was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was also voted by MPs of the political party to which the predecessor belonged. New democracy represented left-wing ideas, so charge her with hundreds of thousands of unemployed, for robbery, for crime, for corruption. The predecessor attacked a union organisation in Serbia. That looks like your president, who said last night, will resign if a police officer is extradited to The Hague. Why can't he resign if any citizens are extradited to The Hague? Why are you just investing in the police, which is something else for you police officers than other Serbian citizens? And that I, my dear friends from DOS, congratulate you today's holiday -- today is the holiday of your coalition partners in Kosovo and Metohija, today is Ship's Flag Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14554	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14555	Mr. President, honourable MPs, before us is the law, I would say, one of the last in the chain, which creates suitable ground for those who should come here tomorrow, whether at the orders of the World Bank, the IMF or multinational companies, to take over what is right for the budget, and to just watch what they came here for, and that is that cruel capitalist law that appears as a form of profit. Therefore, this profit will only be in its function, this profit will have nowhere to do with the social programs that should be here, that profit will simply not know about any difficulties of those who will lose their jobs, nor will they know about the problems of the state. The primary task is to get him out of where he came from, and literally forget what caused the workers to be fired, which is why they were taken from what they were creating. I said, and now I would immediately answer Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, although he is not there, because he has also called me among 37 SPS MPs -- he will never tell anyone, if such a law remains, that it is good, but he is the worst that could be offered to the workers. It is a law that drastically derivates all acquired rights that workers have achieved and all that they have succeeded in negotiations with employers so far. And, as one of my colleagues here, an MP, there is no so-called member who can be said to be something more favourable than he was;literally, whoever member you get caught talking about, or referring to them, at least for a few percent or several segments in a worse position puts workers, than it has been so far. Let's just take the turn. Let us take a member of 103 who speaks when a worker can lose his job: "Employee can cancel an employment contract if there is a legitimate reason to do so concerning the employment capacity of an employee, his behaviour and the needs of an employer". So, only by his need and will depends on whether the daughter-in-law stays at work. "If it is found that the employee does not achieve the results of the work" - who brings it and who will bring some rules which are the results of the work by which he will measure when he quits the worker? Further - if he doesn't have the ability and if he doesn't have the knowledge he needs. Well, as the worker has worked for 20 years, how has he had the abilities so far and how has he been able to make some objects so far quality, and suddenly he doesn't have it? So if the employer's will to reduce a certain number of employees, he won't look at whether the worker has the ability and knowledge, whether he achieved the results of the work, simply, he'll lose his job. "If he doesn't respect work discipline," what rule is that he prescribed when labour discipline is not respected? What he should do if he doesn't respect work discipline; or if you run past the employer, you don't tell him "good morning" or "good morning," and he just says - I don't need it anymore; or, literally, if one of his lovable employees says he's faced with another worker and simply won't work alongside such a worker, that's just the same reason he's out of a job. Now let's get this straight, I never speak against employers, and I never speak for those who will not work and who have caused problems. But unfortunately, that's how you supported it. The crisis headquarters were mainly attended by those who did not work and by those who were making noises. The honor of individuals who were professional and capable, but mostly crisis headquarters were attended by such workers, who may be causing problems today. How about a solution when in an organization with over 50 employees the employer decides to fire more than 10%. He's got to do a social program. What about the ones up to 10%? What do we do with a 500-employee working organization if he decides to fire 50 workers? Who does he account for? He doesn't lay it on anyone, just himself. He fired 50 workers, no need to account for anyone. Where's that second-degree organ, where's some kind of protection? I don't want to get into whether or not the amendment has accepted anything. The main thing to end is a collective contract, like a defense and protection of workers so far. A collective contract is now being put aside and now it's a matter - a work contract or a labour rule, a code? It's brought by an employer. As it pleases him, that's how he'll write the labour rule, so he'll write the labor contract. He'll take it to the worker and if he doesn't accept it, what's next? He's going to be fired. Let's ask ourselves, what about the organization of up to 50 workers? Practically under this law is given the possibility of an employer, who does not have to take advantage of, who no one can influence, that he fires all 50 workers. Let's get back to this job advertising thing, the competition. The minister said, "So far there's been reading." I'm not even going to stand up to the fact that there's been a reading, but what's going to happen now that no one knows where the serady place is, or where there's a need for jobs. Are we then equal to all of us, who possess certain knowledge required for this job, to have the opportunity to compete? No, it's being abused even more now, especially party membership. He's been told, especially in social enterprises -- you're going to get that and that, whether he's got school equipment or not, whether or not he's got a job experience. I won't say it's just this government doing it, but we're creating an opportunity for another government to do it tomorrow when it comes. Practically, where's the worker protection? You have to admit, it's just, it's nowhere to be found. Something about maternity leave, to touch that too. (Mr. Minister, if you have a morale and if you have a culture, it's yours to listen, not to throw it out of place). I couldn't agree more - three months of maternity leave. You couldn't say for a year because you needed a child's father to take over the child's care role. What you didn't write - the child care fee is the same as it was, like the maternity leave fee, and the problem solved. No one will object. This way, we're undermining the child's care situation so they can be paid for a sick leave that can be up to 65%. It doesn't have to be, but it leaves open the possibility for the employer to do so. In the end, speaking of members, 90% of the cases are absolutely unfavourable. Take this example -- the employee who's been charged with maintaining a three-month sentence loses his right to return to work. Very often we witness coded car accidents or accidents made by a driver who didn't drive at all fast, who didn't even have a drop of alcohol in him, to condemn himself to six months. Practically, a man loses his job. It's been six months. What did you have to make worse for three months? I've gone too far, because what's done to make it short, pabish left time for my colleagues because everyone has something to say about this bill. So, as finally, this is the worst thing you could offer the workers. In no segment does the worker have protection to rely on, to say that he is protected. I repeat, we are not for the protection of those who do not work, those who are incompetent, but most workers are safe and able and ready to do what is entrusted to her as a task. But with what kind of motive does he have to go when he can really get fired at any moment, whether he's a good worker or not. I thank you for your attention and leave it to my colleagues to say the rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14556	The word has Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14557	Since viewers listen to the discussion here, and apparently some MPs, especially the opposition, above all the SPS, cannot interpret some of the members of the law, I will try to explain it to you and make it much clearer. And Mr. Nikolic will probably remember that. In Article 71, it reads, "In the course of maternity leave and absence from work, for the care of a child, a woman, or father of a child, has the right to compensation, in accordance with the law." Then he says, in the Family and Child Care Act, Article 16: "For the first three children in the family, the salary is 100%". So let's take that story off the agenda sometime. Secondly, I have to explain to the gentleman again that under the Employment Act, it is the employer's obligation to report the need for a job. It is registered to the Labour Market Office, and the Tajsnavod through its service throughout Serbia, because it is a good information centre, stresses the need in its bureaus, which means that anyone interested in any part of our country can, if he wants to, compete in a particular workplace. Therefore, dear MPs, I think that's very clear. Only the malignancies in this can seek certain machinations. When it comes to director's rights, I have to read the article again. The 137th old law, which you adopted and which former Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic signed, said Mr Nikolic, which says, "In the exercise of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of employees in accordance with the law and collective agreement, the director brings a general act establishing jobs, types and degrees of professional training and other conditions for working in a given job." Article 7: "He's making a choice amongst the registered candidates". Look out, he's making a choice between candidates. He doesn't need a commission. He needs a commission. So we're going on, "He's closing the labor contract." Be careful, the director under this 1996 law: he concludes an agreement on the deployment of employees; he makes a decision on the deployment of employees; he concludes a takeover agreement (Article 26(1), point (2), Article 32(2).) concludes an agreement within the meaning of Article 39 of this Act; determines the need and scope of duty; delivers decisions on work longer than full-time; delivers a solution on the allocation of working time; provides a solution on redistribution of working hours; brings a solution on vacations and absences, brings a solution on the use of the right to maternity leave and leave for special care of the child, be careful, even so; initiates and conducts disciplinary proceedings, gives rise to disciplinary measures - cadium and sues, cadiya judges; brings a solution to the distance of the employee, Article 102, 104; educates the Commission under Article 106(6) of this Act; cancels the contract of work, or brings a solution to the termination of working relationship; makes a solution for the employees to remain in the meaning of the employment relationship within the meaning of Article 110; concludes the agreement of Article 112 of this Law; concludes the Treaty; concludes that the contract with a third party. The Director may transfer the powers referred to in paragraphs 3, 4, 7 to 16 of this Article by written means of staff with special powers and responsibilities. Therefore, such powers, which you have given in the old law, do not exist under this law as director. Please don't make this more potent, because this law is reform law, this law is in the interests of workers and employees, and this law is in the interests of employers. Therefore, please, if you have any other objections, it would be good to present them, in order to make further discussion possible, and make the law better. What you're presenting so far is very clear and precise written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14558	The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Katic. Excuse me, right on line, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14559	I don't know why the minister mentioned me twice, but right now I'd just like to say something about an explanation that I don't understand either, and I seem to be able to understand everything this minister says about this pay phone. For example, Article 9. The labour law, which has been in force and is now in force until the entry into force of this law, regulates the way in which work relations are established. I repeat, Article 9. The labour law regulates the way the work relationship is founded, so it says - the job and the working conditions of the job, the employer reports to the organisation of compulsory social security, and so on. The employment organisation shall, within five days of the date of receipt of the application, have the responsibility to make public notices, etc. Penalties, Article 142, item 1 point 3. - a fine of 1,000 to 10,000 new dinars will punish the employer's offence as a legal person if he does not report a job and working conditions to the employment organisation. By passing this law, that member shall be deleted. And the employer? Don't tell us he's a liability here. I would ask the MPs of the majority to listen to their minister, the minister said it remains a commitment (I don't know if it's stupid or not, you solve it amongst yourselves), to announce the job opening; I claim by deleting this law, its Article 9 and the criminal provisions under Article 9, there is no longer any obligation to report job vacancies. I'm not getting into whether it's necessary or not, I'm just getting into it because there's no obligation to report jobs anymore. Then don't go out for a pay phone and say he has to report a job. He doesn't have to. There's no obligation, and it doesn't have to. As far as the director's authority is concerned, of course they're gone now, I'm just asking again the question I asked as I spoke in principle: what in the transitional period while the company is social, and some will still be, for years, social enterprises? Who, in that case, is the employer, who exercises all the powers of the employer in the labour law? The current Labour Relations Act had to be appointed, to identify the Director as some kind of employer, authorised to lead and initiate the dispute and to conclude agreements on takeover, etc., has 15 points. Who's going to do this now, you don't mention that member anymore. You say, "Employer." I ask the legislator, who's the employer of the social enterprise? And the social enterprise will exist for at least two years, at least one in the country, and there will be hundreds of them, because you have not yet privatized any enterprise. And if you privatize, maybe you'll only be 10 or 15 of those that are most profitable, if they can be sold tomorrow. I'm asking you, who's gonna be in the Sartide employer, that's all I care about?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14560	National MP Tom Bushetic, right on line. I'm sorry, Mr. Katichu.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14561	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I simply don't trust a minister when he talks about any law. He says everything has already been regulated by the Employment Act. We ask that all these important provisions be in this particular law, in the labour law. Why? The employment law is changing. We brought in a few months ago only amendments and additions to the Employment Act. What's next? I know very well, followed by a cut in cash compensation, according to the Employment Act, for a year, and then by public works; so there's no cash fee who doesn't accept to go out to work some street, etc. These are the new laws that will follow. Therefore, we ask that this law be a clear provision on both the ad and all other issues; nothing must be left to regulate in another way and that it is already regulated by another law. Why did you even change maternity leave for a year if there was a replacement with child care? It's not the same thing. What's not the same? It's not the same sick leave. It's not regulated for child care. (Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, from the place: Well, it is not sick. ) Please, secondly, I had not interfered before when they spoke about the harmonisation of this law by the president of the Marcicanin Assembly and the president of the DOS parliamentary group Ceda Jovanovic. There's nothing consistent with the MOR. The deputy director or vice president of the IOR said that this law, he watched for two hours on the plane. I was present on that committee. He said the law is inconsistencies, inconsistencies, even said the law is not worthy of Serbia in that correspondence with President Lariek. It's the truth of this law. He also said that the provisions of the law are considered compatible, if 90% of these provisions are compatible with the international convention. If 10% is incompatible, although only three or four members speak here are not compatible, then the law does not comply with the international convention, with the International Labour Organisation. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14562	The word has a minister for work, Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14563	I've always wondered why there was a decline in birth in Serbia, and now I've actually figured it out. Because socialists, who ruled, were considered to be a disease. Obviously, gentlemen, that you do not realize that pregnancy, that maternity leave, care about the child is not sick. These women aren't sick, these kids aren't sick, and I guess you should learn that when you're going out for this pay phone to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14564	The People's MP Borisvoje Katic has the word, and after him, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14565	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Minister, cannot help but notice what has been done here in several previous speeches. It's that story about the obligations we took when we came to power. It's true that we've taken over our duties, but what obligations? Obligations to persist in a reform story that would circle changes and lead to a goal, which is rich in Serbia. This is what we have taken, and for such a single move we need to have the courage, strength and certain good, significant acts, which, among other things, are here on the agenda. Serbia's government, headed by Zoran Djindjic as its prime minister, favours toss, opportunities, wishes and will, because this is a clear goal, an absolutely clear goal to which the government is seeking. We have others who are trying to get into some cheap demagogy, and without having the courage to deal with problems, they're trying to get political points. We have the third one, whose concept for 10 years in Serbia was offered, which suffered its collapse and seduced, brought Serbia to the ashes. This law, which is before us, ladies and gentlemen, is a fundamental law which, together with a package of tax laws and, the Privatisation Act, forms the basis for a country we intend to build - stable, strong, strong and rich. This labour law provides, indeed, a consistent application of the conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organisation. This law gives a special emphasis on the security of conditions for the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises, and on many occasions we all agreed as a general assembly that Serbia's future is right in small and medium-sized enterprises. This law lays down uniform standards regarding the rights and obligations of employees, establishing one balance in ensuring the rights and interests of employees on the one hand and employers on the other. This law gives greater material and social security to employees. This law abolishes a very complex procedure we've had so far, and it's about starting a working relationship. When it comes to collective agreements, collective agreements with this law and how they exist, but as one written agreement concerning working conditions and employment between, on the one hand, the employer and, on the other hand, one representative organisation of workers or trade unions, and only if the agreement is reached is concluded. In the event that there is no organised union in the company's employer, even if there is no union enough power to deal with problems, there is a possibility of conclusion of a labour rule. It's an act that allows the right of the employee to negotiate with the employer in fact, and that's the essence. Ladies and gentlemen, in many parts of it, this law is adapted to the new requirements of the market, which are not simple, which, we must say, are cruel in these market fights ahead of us in some future period. The main feature of this law is a chance in fact for fast employment, without the complicated procedure I mentioned earlier. One of the important things is that I get into a work relationship not to get a job but to get a job. As a worker does, his job will depend on him, and that is one of the great and significant things in this law. This law, as well as the process in which we are going, clearly also leads to extra employees in those companies where the administrations are simply so set up that there must be a certain surplus. Of course, the Serbian government has also envisioned these requalification and qualification programmes for those deficiting professions. We also have the possibility of realising ideas related to the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, a certain number of workers will be on the burden of the state. Given the process and the conditions we've been living in, it's our inevitability in the next 10 years or so. Workers of this law are entitled to adequate income, protection at work, health care, as well as other rights in case of illness. I've been processing working relationships up and down as simple as that. It solves the problem of surpluses. More protection of employees, especially women and minors, is ensured by the introduction of minimum earnings, which will be determined in accordance with the cost of living, the existential needs of employees, market movements and the general level of development of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, this law cannot only fit certain individual union officials and those workers who have learned so far, in this previous period, to work or not to work as much as it pleases or find various curves not to work. So, the one who is ready to deal with a job is certain that a law like this suits him, so, among other things, this law helps us clear a path that will allow for economic rebirth and reform in Serbia. Yes forever, ladies and gentlemen, let's forget about the so far economic decadent and backward system, which, fortunately, is far behind us. Let us pass this law, and such a system no longer returns.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14566	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14567	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft labour law that is in front of us is not good, it contains many shortcomings and I will try to point to two members, because we are time-limited, well, I don't have time to explain it a little bit more and beyond. Article 3 states, and I ask the chairman that this time of reckoning, I quote: "A employer who has not concluded an individual collective contract, rights, obligations and responsibilities under work shall regulate the labour rule or contract, in accordance with the law and other regulations". Article 2 says, "The employer brings work." This member directly suspends collective bargaining. Namely, no employer will ever want to negotiate with unions, with employees, means he's making a collective contract. Each employer will be responsible for direct adoption of the labour rules, which will regulate the rights, obligations and duties of employees. Speaking of collective agreements, I must point out that the chapter relating to collective bargaining is also not fully clearly defined. In collective agreements, it is not precise and decadently said, what is the relationship between the level of rights guaranteed to employees by individual collective agreements. So far, the rule has been that the general collective agreement gives the lowest level, minimum level of rights to employees, and that each other, meaning special and individual, must give more rights than general. In this proposal of the law, this is decidently not said, so that certain inaccuracies remain. Article 33(2) refers to a working relationship with the auxiliary household staff, and I quote: "The labour contract can also contract the payment of a part of the profits in nature". Item 3: "The payout of part of the profit in nature is considered to provide housing and food, i.e. self-sustaining of housing or food". This member of the law is directly contrary to the Labour Relations Act, which we changed here a few months ago, in which it is decadent that profits are paid exclusively in money. So no natural form of payout is considered. Exceptionally, it's paid in cash. But this is not the first time that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the current government, has broken the regulations and laws it has proposed itself, and this assembly has adopted. In fact, several months ago, Minister Djelic admitted that some of the other regulations we adopted here were not respected, and primarily thinks of the Profits Law, which was arranged to pay off earnings in gross amounts. Minister Djelic admitted that even today in the EPS and some other profit companies are still being paid off in the net, according to the old law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14568	The word is a folk letter from Gordana Komic, and after it is a folk apostle, Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14569	Ladies and gentlemen, based on experiences that other countries have had in a similar situation like us, although no one is essentially in a similar situation like we, every law, and so is this law on work that we explain to each other, and we hope all together for the benefit of all employees in Serbia, we come across a sentence-will, but we wouldn't... It's the nature of every law that deeply covers something that's an unchangeable way of thinking, and that's the problem of psychology, not a craftsy and dishonest political attitude about the content of a law. With your permission and your wish to say that we really will, but we wouldn't, either we will, with a lot of awareness of what problems will be produced for us and for employees and employers. In short, let me try to establish a consensus on what is the economic and political mileage in which this labour law should be applied. We have an economy that produces $1,100 per capita in Serbia, which puts us in a club of poor countries, not very poor, but very close. We have an economy that has been restored and prevented for the little development of sanctions, insulation from financial flows and from international organisations, economics and everyone else. I'm not getting into any of the causes, and don't look at this for reasons for replication, because I just want to establish a consensus, if we can. So let's find out what kind of economic and political mile this labour law is prepared for, if it's ready. We have 770,000 really unemployed and 700,000 seemingly unemployed, and these are people who are according to previous or existing law on forced vacations. You know, the term forced vacation is something you won't be able to translate into any of the world's languages, but it's our daily life, our reality; either it's vacation or it's not forced, it's not going with each other, not at all. So it's a total of a million and a half people, with their families, who are in an extremely difficult social situation. There's the first point I'm going to add to something that I'm sure we don't have a consensus in this assembly, which is that it's due to the poor governance of public goods, the poor management of public affairs and the hiding of public money flows, or something called budget money. It's a group we address when we talk about established and acquired rights. We believe that if we tell these people that they must remain rights acquired and determined by collective agreements, that no one can fire them, although they are seemingly employed, and that no one can fire even those who are now really employed, that we are then talking about the consumption of rights? We're not talking. That's where we part ways now. Consummation of rights is if you have an answer to who's going to pay for it. Who will pay what the social needs of the state are, it is a stubborn fact that will remain and if most in this assembly do not accept the labour law and do not vote it, with or without amendments. It won't change the facts that are stubborn and in this case, in the dispute with the theory that we're talking about when we talk about established and acquired rights of workers. The good news about the labour law is that the situation among workers, among employees and employers is much better at dealing with facts than here in this assembly. Perhaps it is time for the good news of this kind to be in the country of Serbia. Hypothetically just take, if you want 150 marks, which is about half of the average earnings for the past month in Serbia, to give these people under social programmes, so really unemployed (770.000) and seemingly unemployed who have a total of about a million and a half, it is about a billion and 400 million marks a year. This falls on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which amounts to around four billion marks, which is the average budget of a medium-developed city in Central Europe. That's the facts. If the political parties in this assembly, who will not accept these facts, will be satisfied if the labour law is not accepted, it will not challenge the question - and who will pay us our rights. Referring to the Serbian government in that case will be the wrong address. That's what we really need to explain when it comes to labour law, not to explain ourselves, like when we had a gross salary term in this assembly. For a while, we haven't been clear about what gross pay really is, and obviously we still have a dilemma about it. Let's get this straight about maternity leave, how much money you get when you're on maternity leave, like the woman who gave birth. I would really ask my fellow Members to have as little access as possible and to have as little family leave as possible. As most MPs and decision-makers have dealt with it, on average we have about 5,000 women in Serbia each year who use the right to leave for two years because of the birth of a third child. We have a woman giving birth to a fourth child and she's got 80% compensation, and she's always had it, and I'm saying it's my experience, and a part-time maternity leave. Therefore, it would be good for the subject, unless, again, the facts of the matter, fellow MPs to stop talking a little bit. Also, the invitation for you to, when we talk about established and acquired rights, give an answer to who will pay and pay for the consumption of established and acquired rights, is something that is my call to add consensus. It is the right for all of us to have an attitude on the content of the law presented to these MPs, but it is a obligation and responsibility for all of us to accept that any kind of demagogy or any kind of smaller or larger political victory in this assembly will not remove facts from the economic and political mileage in Serbia, because the facts are stubborn. They're as stubborn as women and women will be born, don't worry, you decide one way or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14570	The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14571	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, as an MP from Kosovo and Metohija, I consider it my obligation to say something different about this bill than what was said in the past part of the debate. I believe that the labour law that we are considering today is actually a law with political implications, but also one that has not been pointed out in the past. With circumstances, the principle debate on the labour law begins right after Hekerup's elections have just been made in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. I have to wonder what adoption of this law will mean for us Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. It is less known that the UNMIK administration selectively applies our laws, or only those that function in their policy. Mr. Minister, will this law be applied to Kosovo and Metohija when adopted? If so, will it not make the proposed provisions much easier for the Shiptarian secessionists to release the few Serbs in the Kosovo area and Metohija from work and deprive them of the conditions for existence, thus jeopardising our survival in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Because here is even the current Law on Working Relations, Mr. Rogers, the municipal administrator of Kosovo Mitrovica, by his act of 21 November 2001, de facto fired all employees of the municipality of Kosovo Mitrovica. This is his document. He directed them to re-competition in, in his opinion, a united and in fact a Šiptar variant of the Kosovo Mitrovica municipality. These days, in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, there are cowboy attacks by the United Nations police in the health institutions that have been in our country's system so far, which has been guaranteed by Security Council Resolution 1244. The following are educational institutions. That's not an accident. Because besides that, health and education institutions were the headquarters of the survival of the Serb people in Cosmet. According to the report, disabling practices and those provisions of Resolution 1244 that have been respected so far are under way. (President: - Please, colleague, return to the subject of the Labour Law. Yeah, I'm talking about him. I wonder what will be the fate of employees of health workers and workers in educational institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. I am afraid that by giving up the previous labour law, automatically, by not respecting a new regulation that does not enter the frameworks of Resolution 1244, because it was passed after it, it will mean taking away the Serbs in the area of Kosovo and the Metohija of the remaining strip of hope in our country. I also want to point to a very important national component, which almost no one notices. Perhaps there are many here who know what an evil fate has come across hundreds of thousands of exiled Serbs from Cosmet, who are wondering whether they will have a piece of bread and a glass of milk for their children every morning. They are astoundingly watching outwitting about this or those rights and thinking about their rights, which have been given to them in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, and now taken by force. They wonder what their fate will be now, after the adoption of the new law. It sounds grotesque to talk to such people about a brighter future, which they can hardly see with this so far, for them far more favourable law. No matter how high the national component seemed to be, especially for some here in Belgrade, when it comes to the labour law, it is not when viewed from Kosovo and Metohija, where the real government is being held by the Cypriot secessionists and UNMIK administration. As of Saturday, under the pressure of the Cypriot separatists, and with the decision of the command of the French KFOR forces, Kosovo Mitrovica has become an open city for them, so that over the bridge on Ibra, under the excuse of the city's unity, can be crossed freely. They think it needs to be free flow of goods, people and cars. What will it really mean for us Serbs, we already see in the case of Obilic, where people are only killed because they are Serbs. (Glass: what does that have to do with the agenda? There is and you listen. (President: Mr. Maraviæ, please, I warn you to return to the subject: the Labour Law. ) Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are MPs and representatives of the people, but above all, we need to be people, to understand the legitimate demands of workers who insist that the law is bad, that it needs to be completed and that it needs to be withdrawn urgently from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14572	The word of the messenger of the people is Sredoiah Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14573	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, we of Vojvodina, DOS, believe this bill is acceptable in principle. We don't think of it as a holy letter or that we should respect everything from word to word, but we think that's why we're here, to improve something, to fix something, to improve it. We of Vojvodina have become accustomed to European laws, European manners, European working time, European behaviour, which is why we think that this is the way to do it, to leave military and war laws, rather than to get back to work, to prescribe it properly and in what way. There's a discussion that says we shouldn't all talk about this law because we haven't read European laws. Of course we shouldn't read them, but our experts, who said it was a good law, not all of us talking about how we know something. That's what competent and responsible people should do. We have these, and I don't know what it's like with you. Gentlemen, just to remind us why we're here for this reform law, which is why we think it's systematic and it's very important -- because we need it to get us in line, to get us started on coming to work, working time, respect for working hours, to prescribe what we're going to look like, how we behave during work, to favor doing newspapers, as much as expertise and paternality, to be paid, because the laws you've regulated so far have been horrendous. She said, "You can't pay me as little as I can work." You gentlemen know from practice how it was, I also come from the economy, that's where I work. When someone did me some damage, didn't come to work, went to sick leave and used sick leave for something else, you shouldn't have fired him because after the courts of the joint work, which you still created, they were returning him to work. We were paying back salaries he didn't earn, and there was a lot of stuff going on. Now, gentlemen, that's the thing we're doing with this law. We're not saying it's the best, but we need to accept these rules of the game, this system law, to try and see how it works. I don't agree with the union saying this law should be withdrawn. The law doesn't need to be withdrawn, it needs to be groomed. We of the Vojvodina Coalition will vote in favour of the law in principle, we will vote on our conscience for some amendments that we consider to be good, to improve it, but we believe that the law should be passed and that the law should be respected. I'm saying again, it's not a holy letter, although we can see that something in that law might not have been what we thought it was. Practice will show, we'll change it, but we need to move towards reform and we need to join Europe, respect European standards. Gentlemen, I can see that you think it's okay that our workers didn't come to work, which, when they came, they wore from the factory what they wanted, which was sometimes more expensive than work, which was mixed between workers and workers, which was totally in your legal acts, as it was so far, not recognizable work than work -- because, simply, everyone was getting paid, some social salary, not a worker. They weren't living off their work, they were trying to get to the leaders or get into your parties, where they'd have privileges. We therefore believe that this labour law should encourage and protect workers and, of course, employers, because when someone did some damage, they were not responsible, but often promoted. So let's not bluff, let's not bluff the unions. With this law here we want to separate important from irrelevant, we want it to be paid for. So whoever knows how to create doesn't need a competition. Of course, he who works well, who works well, who knows how to contribute, will get a higher salary, will be hired by someone else, without competition, because it is worth it. That's exactly how it should be, that we respect values, that's exactly the reform of society, that's exactly the change we've advocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14574	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14575	What we're discussing the second day, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the draft labour law, more specifically its sixth version, which has entered the assembly procedure. The legislator disobeyed all appeals and all calls of workers, who came from all over Serbia from those who belonged to the unions, whose headquarters strongly protested against such a bill, except for one, the Association of Free and Independent Unions, whose president was a former trade union until yesterday, and now your current minister, Dragan Milovanovic. A tragic picture of today's Serbia, all of what happens to workers in Serbia and to all those living under DOS dictatorship, reflects exactly this draft labour law. There is also such a difficult situation and a tragic picture completes the fact that, for the minister of such an important area, such an important portfolio in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Milovanovic was elected. We have also heard from ministers and MPs of the assembly majority that they are calling for some reform courses, international conventions, and also to remind that in this sixth draft labour law, in its creation, the Government of the Republic of Germany, as well as the World Bank, participated. We were able to hear from both the minister and DOS MPs that the law was reformable, that he would introduce Serbia to a better time, as if you were not living in Serbia, as if you didn't know what workers and citizens are facing today. You were not at all ashamed to say with so much cynicism that the workers in Serbia were the ones who didn't want to work, who may have stolen something from the factory (that's what the predecessor said), who came to work just in time, and those same hardworking, hardworking workers, who have been supporting their families for decades, you and before the adoption of this law, sent them to Kragujevac 15,000 to the street. You started something, and it's an internal Zastava employment service for those you've declared to be workers who, according to your technological, organisational and other standards, have no place to work anymore, you've founded this internal institute, and then you've promised disabled workers that you'll establish protection workshops for them within the Zastava Group. None of it was. We have a situation today that after the adoption of such a labour law (without the adoption of amendments, in particular 51 amendments, which you promised when you spoke to the trade unions), mass layoffs will take place, social unrest will take place, and we will see that Dragan Milovanovic will then flee. I think he's going to run as fast as his feet are carrying him, much faster than he's been running away from gunned-down workers from the city council in Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14576	The word has been made by MP Milka Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14577	Since tensions in certain circles have risen these last days and months in connection with the labour law, or the bill, many times, I have read this law very carefully to find these dramatic provisions, which are so disastrously jeopardizing our working class, but I haven't found them. Then I hoped to hear from you here - what it is that is so jeopardizing the workers, except for the empty and demagogue stories and the untruths, those who destroyed the economy, shut down the businesses, left the debts in billions, unemployed in millions, I heard nothing else. However, I was particularly pleased with the understanding that was mass-pronounced here, about the employer. Here the employer is presented as the Tasmanian devil sitting in a factory devouring the workers until the last one, until he remains alone. That's how he sits in his factory, 'cause I guess that's why he invested all that money. The employer is a man who's invested a lot of money in a factory, in a machine that needs profit, and there's no profit if there's no good workers. So these stories are funny, they're completely out of line, they belong, of course, to some past time and to those who are still in that time. Imagine the criticism of the notice of termination by the employer who follows if it is found that the employee does not achieve the results of the work does not have the necessary knowledge and ability to perform its work. Please, what's the alternative, do you stand up for those who don't know how to work, aren't capable, are you? That's the alternative, that's what you stand for. Or, for example, he says, "If his behavior is such that he cannot continue his work with the employer." What's in that behavior -- it's been introduced by the world a long time ago. For example, if you're working on a party counter, even though you have an irrational fear of dentists, you have to have fixed teeth. If you work with the parties, you have to smell. You can't wear wooden benches where peace is needed, like in the hospital. It's the behavior the employer has the right to seek. The next provision is fluid, which is (I say again, listen to me carefully): "If an employee abuses a disease". We all know that the abuse of sick leave in this country has become business. I believe it is also known in large cities, as we in small cities know exactly which doctors give false sick leave, how much it costs. When raspberries are harvested, no working class, no one asks what's wrong with the factory, whether the bankruptcy, where the debts, the wages, nothing, everyone's in the harvest, for a month and a half, we know exactly, everyone's in false pains. And when they come back, right away the choir - give the money, where's the government, what don't we do, what's going on? Well, then, fortunately, there comes a potato, so on and so forth. So this reason for firing is fluid, and it's complete nonsense to say that the employer has no right to determine whether his employee is on false sick leave or not. Now a famous maternity leave -- I've gotten the impression that these men are pushing for as big a sick leave as they say (though they're not sick), so they can scrape out of the house and the woman stays in the house and do what they're supposed to do. So, my dear wife, everything you've heard, it's a lie. When you have a baby, you have a year off from work, whatever it's called, you're paid 100%. I'd say it's called a parental leave in this law, since a husband and wife can be arranged, in accordance with their family opportunities, who's going to be home and who's going to work. There's a member who hasn't been mentioned. I hope no one needed it. Unfortunately for me, it is. It is a member of the 72nd Law, better than the provision of the previous law, which says: If a woman in employment gives birth to a dead child, she has the right to a maternity leave of three months. It was a little bit before. Unfortunately, it happened to me in 1993, which was otherwise black to all Serbian citizens, and to me, a nigger for that. Believe it's 45 days for a woman to recover when she has a dead child. It takes more time than even a woman who normally gives birth to a child, so with happiness and joy that the baby has brought home, it is sooner to recover. I would like to congratulate you on this provision, since there are a lot more cases like this than you may know, because it is still a family tragedy that people themselves survive. In the end, I have to say that Mr. Martian's discussion has made me a little confused. He says they will not vote in favour of the law because this law has no IOR's paper and seal, but that they will vote if we adopt all (41) DSS amendments, although there is no such paper and IOR's seal. I wonder what the problem is now: is that paper and stamp or that we can unconditionally adopt their amendments? Come on, I'll believe this is the first one. So I'm asking if the DSS amendments have that paper and the IOR seal, and then I vote for them. How am I going to vote if they don't agree with the IOR, and they advise me not to vote for it? If that's not the reason, then there's a very simple word called blackmail. I think this people should assess who's the reformer and who's the anti-reformer. There's no appologian here. No one can put you anywhere but yourself. Those who vote against this law should be aware of their responsibility to the people of this country, suffering, and the people themselves should recognize who is the reformer, who is the anti-reformer, who is responsible and who they should blame for living worse than they are now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14578	Replication rights, representative of the DSS parliamentary group Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14579	Dear fellow Members of the People, to explain what's bothering the DSS, to explain to Mrs Milky. To recap - part of the DSS amendment has been withdrawn, and part of the amendment has been accepted by the government. There are several amendments left that are very important and that the DSS insists on. Yesterday, in my speech, I said that these were certain holes in the law that could be misused. I get the circumstances, one of those holes is art. 105. He's got a comment from the MOR. Article 105 reads: "The employer can offer employees the conclusion of work contracts under changed conditions. An employee who refuses to conclude an employment contract within the meaning of Article 1 position, the employer may cancel the contract of employment." As you can see from this article, it speaks of a labor contract. Cancellation of the labour contract is necessarily an evil if no change in the labour contract is made. However, by chance or on purpose, the law writer put it in a section that speaks of the employer's resignation. As you can see, it's certainly a kind of cancellation at a small door. What the IOR says about this: This article seems to be mistranslated because it is difficult to understand its logic and fact. On the basis of the English text, the employer, whether for reason or no reason, may at any time change the basic terms of employment previously agreed with the employment contract. This would be considered a breach of the labour contract under normal conditions and such an option would have to be excluded unless it is justified by very circumstantial reasons. For example: reorganisation due to financial crisis or technological change; sales reduction; higher power. If the employer insists on offering conditions that differ from those originally agreed by the labour contract and the employee rejects them, the employer may be considered to have illegally broken the labour contract, so that the provision of Article 102 would apply. Once again to clarify, these possibilities given by the IOR are already in the law. So you're not talking about them. It's a technological surplus and a financial crisis. It all turns out it's art. 105, since the government already doesn't want to change it, one law hole that allows employers to fire certain workers. What's even worse, they don't have the possibility of complaining, or the possibility of getting certain severances, which are given to a member of the 103rd law, so that they practically stay to hang out in heaven or on earth. That's what the MOR noticed, we noticed. The government has generally accepted our other demands, and this one won't. We're wondering why?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14580	Right on line, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14581	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I am pleased to have agreed in the meantime with the DSS's view that there is no difference between Deputy Directors, Mr Bronstein and the MOR. On the basis of the above quote, it is clear that you, in the functions and words of Mr Bronstein, recognize the official position of the MOR and call upon it as such. Second objection, as regards Art. The 105th and bad consequences that would result from its application do not really stand; or it is a new interpretation of your distance from this law, because yesterday we heard from the mouth of the DSS MPs that you do not support this law because some of the directors of the health homes in Serbia have been replaced. As for Article 105, we are having a debate on the law in principle, not on the law in particular. Your distancing from the support of the law in principle is, in fact, the destruction of this law. This labour law, whether you want to admit it or not, is a reform law because it stemmed from a reform project that is being implemented at the level of the federal and republican administration. This labour law, whether you want to admit it or not, came from our obligation as a state, not as the Republic of Serbia that defends this law, but as a state of SRJ, to take over through a stand-by arrangement with the IMF. If someone wants to say that this labour law does not need Serbia, then they should say what the price of the law is. It should say that Serbia does not need co-operation with the IMF; that Serbia does not need co-operation with the World Bank; that Serbia does not need co-operation with the Paris Club and the London Club; that Serbia does not need the realisation of credit for small and medium-sized enterprises, because we have found that it does not need the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in your Serbia. Is the answer to all that co-operation with Iraq and Baghdad Conference? If so, then offer it to us based on the arguments. I guarantee you we'll back it up, because we're interested in the essence. At this point, the essence of article 105 is not as you represent it. Deleting this member implies that one completed labour contract, under certain conditions, cannot be changed during work. This means that by eradicating this member, you are trying (let's play with the names) of an employer who comes from abroad to reform and raise production in the flag to commit to respecting the employment contract signed by that worker in the flag with the social leadership of the company, with the Republic government and with all those involved in the negotiation process between the employer, (the employer in the flag is the state) and the workers, and so on we do not need something like that. (President Natasa Micic: Mr Jovanovic, time. ) Only in the shortest, Article 8 of the Labour Act, which you do not want to read in general, reads: "Some of the provisions of the labour contract which determine the more unfavourable working conditions than the conditions laid down by the law and the general act, i.e. based on an incorrect notification by the employer of certain rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employee, are considered invalid. "So, that's true, it was also in the previous law, and we haven't changed that provision of the law. It's not true that the problem is in Article 105. The problem is in the continued destabilising of reforms in our society, in the destabilising that has its own nonsense: about the Chamber of Commerce Act, which you have proposed as MPs, and you have destroyed in the Assembly;Laws on the establishment of the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, which you have supported on the committees of parliament, and you have also collapsed in the Assembly; Labour Act, which you are also destroying in the Assembly, and you have previously supported it in the congregation working bodies. That's the problem. If you think there's a problem with us, we're ready to talk about it, but the labour law is not the subject of bargaining or rotten compromise. He'll pass, be sure of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14582	Mr. Jovanovic, time. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Mr. Michael, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14584	Before I present what I have to say in the replica, I would like to point out the objection in the way of holding the session by the previous chairman, Mrs Micic, who put herself on one side in the previous line, after giving the replica to Mr Jovanovic, although, according to Business, he did not have the right to do so, and she broke the Rules of Procedure. I will not ask for a vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I think it is extremely incorrect by the chairman, to give a break immediately afterwards, although heavy accusations have been made at the expense of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I think it is a manner that should not be like a new democratic parliament, and I would like it no longer to be repeated, especially not by those who call themselves Democrats. As for the remarks made by Mr Jovanovic in his unwarranted replica, he first made or spilled a bunch of lies. The first is: in a vote on committees, the Democratic Party of Serbia did not vote in favour of the bill. On the Committee on Labour, Social and Combat Affairs, some MPs of DOS MPs voted for the amendment to Article 105 to be adopted and that committee accepted the amendment to Article 105, so that, according to the Committee on Social and Combat Affairs, the Member should be deleted. It's true about Article 105. If it is not clear to Mr Jovanovic or anyone else, let him take a look at the record from the Committee. The second thing: neither the World Bank nor any other international institution has asked that member to be part of this law, we have checked it very well, and especially if the International Labour Organisation's position here is as it is, but does not go in the direction of support of this member of the bill. This member of the bill has the support of those who want to leave many of our fellow citizens on the street by blackmailing them with certain things. The third thing: a myth about reforms should finally be interrupted, which someone is persistently trying to spread to Serbia. Root reforms have only been observed here in the area of the abuse of the state apparatus and the usurpation of the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. There are only root reforms, reforms in the rule of law. In a year's time, the government has passed more regulations than the government of Mirko Marjanovic and the previous government of New Democracy and the SPS, more than they have brought for the full term. These are the root reforms in the governance of the state apparatus. Finally, I think it is high time that the Mittinga rhetoric, which should replace the lack of arguments, replaces this parliament with an argumentary debate, because we do not want to contribute to the calming of the situation, we will not contribute to an argument, we will not contribute to one democratic environment, as we all want to create, once again, to use the word, the reformed parliament of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14585	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14586	Mr. President, I reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure before these replicas, but I didn't get the word, but, well, I don't mind. To me, you all have some special treatment here, and I'd like to really seriously discuss this law, although there are those who would like the law to pass, those who wish the law did not pass, but every MP here should keep the dignity of the National Assembly. I listened carefully to the emotional appearance of the MPs whom my breach of the Rules of Procedure applied to and noticed that this exposure could be a small and misleading public on the solution offered by this law to the solutions that were in the existing one. So I point out that if there really is a tragedy in Article 72, then a woman in employment has a dead child, the current bill really says that she has the right to use the maternity leave of Article 71, paragraph 3, which is three months. It's been said here that under the old law, that absence was 45 days. That's not true. Just so there's no doubt that there was some inhuman rule over power that is now democratic, reformal and humane. Correct Article 80. The law now states: "If a working woman has a dead child or if she is a child", let me not read these really bad provisions, but "she has the right to use maternity leave for as long as it is necessary to recover from the birth and mental state caused by the loss of a child, and for at least 45 days, during which all rights based on maternity leave belong". This is where the legislator dared to claim that a woman would get over it in three months. The one who wrote the previous law left it to experts, however, to determine that maybe in three months she had failed to get over it and had given her the opportunity to, until the doctor found that she was capable of work, use maternity leave.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14587	There's no replica on the replica. (Milka Marinkovic, from the post: Replication of Tomo Nikolic's exposure. There's no replica. The word is made by MP Zoran Radovanovic, and then by MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14588	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought there would be no worse proposal from Mr. Djalic's already poor tax code package. However, Minister Milovanovic definitely convinced me not to. First, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry he's not here, tried to explain the three-angle law to us: from the corner of a metal man, the corner of a student and the corner of a minister, and he couldn't convince us that the law was good. After him, there were a lot of speakers from DOS who tried to explain how good the law was. Two basic things have dominated their story, which is -- the mandate has given us the people, and we will do this, whether you want it or not. It is true that you received the mandate of December of the month, but the people did not give you the mandate to sell businesses, to raise taxes, to gather everyone in Serbia, to send people to The Hague, to reduce exports, to increase imports, to fire judges. You didn't get that mandate. As far as citizens' confidence is concerned, in early November, we beat you both on percentages and on the board and on the matter of the council, and we have shown what citizens trust in you today. You lost the election only three days ago in Sopot, the Socialist won again and I congratulate you on winning. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I'll start with a quote: "What happened in the meantime and where did we go wrong? The complete answer to this question will give history, but we can say with certainty now: the problem is not in the citizens, the problem is in the government. The citizens were ready, and today they are ready to make this country successful, rich, and happy. What was missing was a clear political strategy to achieve that goal." These are the words of the prime minister for the cabinet, Mr Djindjic, a year ago. I think when he said the citizens wanted a new country, and there's no clear political strategy, he's been thinking for the last year, ever since you gentlemen from DOS were in power. Since you like the argument, let's take it in a row. First Article: As the basis for this proposal, you mention the alignment with international conventions. Normally, this bill is chronically not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. The law we passed was constitutional, it was consistent with international norms, it was in line with international conventions, it was clear and precise, without a siesta of legal holes, which this bill has. This law of yours is more concerned about the fact that the employer doesn't accidentally chop or insult himself, while the category of workers has been completely expelled. You'll probably put the worker in transitional and final provisions. The collective contract has been put into volunteering from now on. So you're the one who cut him off. Trade unions in Serbia, under this law, lose the right and fundamental function of raising labour, economic security and, above all, the protection of workers through negotiations with the employer. Who today, if you ever adopt this law, will be allowed to be in the union other than the minister, since this bill provides for three very important categories: exorcision from work, employment and work for a certain time. Article 103 speaks of termination. It says that a worker is fired from work unless the results of work are realized and that the employee does not have the necessary knowledge and skills to carry out the work he works on. This member is directly in the coalition with Article 21, who says that a worker in order to get a job must show that he is capable and qualified for what he should do. Therefore, people from the International Labour Organization have given this member of yours 103 remarks and have said that it is completely contrary to their views. In translation, since a very often used definition is used, you don't take work away from work here, you bring a worker into a situation where he thinks about the rhythm of his employer, whether he might be an employer in the air conditioning or something else, so he has to be calm. The other thing is, when a worker, more specifically an unsuitable worker is expelled from work, we come to employment under this law, normally without competition, because what will be your competition and advertising of job openings, when the main committee of one of the 60 DOS parties will report to its local committees where the job is located, so a normal second member will report to whom they are due. Now, based on these three members of yours, may one worker be dared to rebel at the firm because of the poor working conditions or because of the pressure his employer puts on him. Article 39 proposes overtime workers until his clinical death. Article 41 says his time will be managed by an employer. Members of 55 to 60 say that when a worker gets tired of his job, he can take a vacation if he literally takes 15 minutes before his approval to an employer. Since you're good with the international community, it's likely that if his arrangements fail, he'll get some other time off to rest with his family. The price difference goes to overcoming debts with the London Club. Since the minister showed a little before envious knowledge from the care of children, and he didn't explain how it was done and the real children, you were very liberal in this bill: you let a woman go on maternity leave 28 days before birth and be only three months after that. I expected a woman to go on maternity leave when the contractions were from eight to ten minutes and report to work immediately after leaving the hospital, normally with a child in her hand, so she wouldn't accidentally cheat on her employer. Since you've extended your working life to 99 years, I'm definitely sure you want to help the young employment population. The deal is, after 65 years, it can be done by the end. In the end, I suggest this law is called - a bill on the protection of employers from workers. Secondly, I suggest that this legislation be made public. I'd like to vote publicly, so if you adopt it, when the workers take the poles into their hands and start beating, at least they know who voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14589	Please be quiet. The word has the People's MP Anita Beretic. (Glass: not in the O.R.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is normal for the debate on such an important reform law to last for several days, as it was normal that the process itself until the entry of the Labour Law was several months, despite Serbia's need for change in all areas. Of course, such an important law should accompany everything that accompanied it in the phase of its adoption, which is the participation of all stakeholders in its creation, both governments, trade unions, employers, and consultations with relevant European factors, those whose regulation we want to compare to, whose regulation we want to see in the end line, whose experience we want to translate into our environment. The process of adopting this bill was followed, and still followed, by public and quite a heated debate. Unfortunately, it has spread very often, and in these few days of congregation debates, from this place, from this booth spreads, unfounded and unnecessary, the atmosphere of uncertainty and fear. These are emotions and it is a simple atmosphere that has ruled Serbia for ten years and more. For years, this atmosphere has been ruled by our citizen the easiest to react to. Therefore, the atmosphere of uncertainty and fear is very easy in Serbia. Anyone who is not well-intentioned, anyone who does not see positively in the reforms will reach out for any way but for an argument, for any thesis, for any demagogue fallout, to further heat that atmosphere, and for anyone's happiness, even with the intention of overheating it. That atmosphere, unfortunately, is not difficult to raise, because we have the legacy we have in this area of work. It's the basis of every normal individual and every normal society. At least it should be, even in this Serbia, in which we have been waiting ten years for each year for the big year to start, plots and all possible promised Swedish standards, never started, let alone completed reforms, which will only lead us where we haven't arrived. So, what is heritage and what should not be forgotten, no matter what is mentioned here several times these days, because the figures are inexorable -- hundreds of thousands of really unemployed, hundreds of thousands of cobayages or fictitious employees, and those who are really working really hard to exercise basic rights under the applicable Labour Law. The labour law that we are about to adopt is reform law, it is in line with modern European standards, and if something he brings is a sharp, even unpleasant cut, which he will make, it is simply calling what we have and what we experience, what he is in Serbia, the real name. It is a separation of work from work, separation from the incompetent, separation of successful from the failures and, of course, both workers - employees and employers, successful from the failures, because they are also employees of people in our country. Unfortunately, we still have self - control philosophy. It creates a global mental and psychological problem in our country. We don't have to look for someone to blame, someone direct, in the nearest of times. I'm afraid the culprits and roots of that psychological heritage are much deeper. First of all, this relationship and this philosophy of experiencing work as a state of employment means being in the workplace, is also the consequence of a system of education, if you will, which in Serbia has ruled for decades. One of the basic characteristics of our schooling and our educated man, regardless of what level of education we're talking about, is the creation of one molded average man. For decades, our school has experienced creativity, creativity, a desire to prove it, and a competitive spirit. It's something the kid takes from home, from school. It's something that anyone who wants to do his job can enter into that kind of attitude toward his job. Of course, the reason for this lack of understanding or difficulty accepting a whole new relationship and a new experience, as a state of employment means really creating in your workplace, for many years, and especially in the last decade, social hypocrisy. It was brought by labour and social legislation, which it only propagated, but not really gave rights to the employees. The beginning of therapy for this one of our collective states is making provisions of this law liberalizing employment. What has often been heard here, as one of the biggest problems in this law, is that working relationship will be based without competition, and that situations are facilitated when work relations can be interrupted, to be fired, I consider it simply to be a normal phenomenon. It is a completely unfounded story about an employer who, as soon as we adopt this law, will frame Article 103, learn all his views and points by heart and enjoy sharing the cancellations. It's part of that philosophy I was telling you about. I think about it the other way around. I think it's the interest of every employer to have a quality, creative, successful and capable worker, that it's the interest of every employer to make the right decisions. It also has on it a responsibility for the company, for the employees, for his and his firm's ratings on the market, no matter what market we're talking about. There's been a lot of talk and moaning about the fate of the workers here, but I haven't heard anything about the representatives of those who were supposed to provide us with a bright future providing information that the number of to God's employees had been manipulated over the past few years. By passing this law, I believe that, through the new types of employment he foresees, the number of black workers will be reduced and new opportunities will be opened to address basic labour rights. The law, at last, gives opportunity to the capable, not to any kind of similarity. My predecessor has just stated that this law will make it possible. I mean, of course, quite the opposite. It is said in Article 14 that "persons who seek employment, as well as employees, cannot be placed in a more unfavourable position than others, regardless of gender, birth, language, race, nationality, religion, marital status, family obligations, political or other confidence, social origin, property, membership in political organisations (which has been very often one of the main qualities in employment), trade unions or any other personal property". As much as it looks like a general place, I think this article 14 actually introduced this basic democratic principle of equality in employment. After all these discussions about women, maternity, mothers, etc. I wonder if I've ever given birth and what I've gained as an advantage when I was born in this country, and I wouldn't interpret those opinions that have already been made. But, quite solidly, acceptablely, it is resolved by this legal position and employee status, and not just by employed women. A dozen members of this law are dealing with the right position of a woman. In Article 9, for example, in the second point, it is clearly said: "A woman who is employed has the right to special protection during pregnancy and childbirth". Article 14, which I have quoted before, also has as one of the banning discrimination precisely gender discrimination. In Article 16, the second view clearly states, "The employer must not condition the establishment of a working relationship with a pregnancy test." It would be good if someone gave us a number - how many pregnant women were able to get a job, if the employer or whatever his last name was, had a pregnant wife in front of him? Pregnancy was the basis of discrimination in employment. Article 69 states: "Employees under the age of 18 and employed women cannot work on jobs where they are mainly difficult to do physical work, work under the ground or under water, or other jobs that could be harmful and with an increased risk of affecting their health and life, given their psychophysical abilities". Of course, an employed woman can only do these jobs with her written consent, while a woman in charge, in companies who do these difficult physical tasks, does not deny the right, but in the end, she is given the right to be responsible and to take on that responsibility. The same or similar problems are treated in Article 70, where it is said: "A woman who is employed during pregnancy can work overtime, or at night, only on the basis of her written consent". The often mentioned member of 71 says: "A woman who is employed has the right to maternity leave and to leave work for the care of a child for 365 days". So, it might be more likely that doctors from this home came out and simply explained, professionally - what does it mean and how long it takes to be a maternity child; and what it means to have the right to have a wife, or father, which this law provides, therefore, for parents, the possibility to care for their only-born child. So, none of what's been said here more than once at the pay phone, that's reduced law. Yes, it was for a third child for two years, but how many women really took advantage of this whole period that was prescribed by law and what are the perks, which is more important and more important, during that time? Not to mix the subject, but we know very well how the mother and child allowances are regularly paid. I don't get paid regularly either. So, if we look at Article 78, and in particular Article 71, which introduces simply one new right, I would say not only family, but also social concern for children. It gives parents, or father, the right to care for the child, and at the same time gives the woman the right to decide if she thinks she is able or that it is simply a better option for her family, that after three months of maternity leave, she returns to work, and the father takes care of the child. Through these provisions that deal with the problem of a working woman, there is only a hint that we, however, liked it or not, at the threshold of a new democratic Serbia. I believe that when one day and in this home there is adequate representation of women, who understand their problems first and foremost, and I can best represent them, that the atmosphere will be different and then we won't have to listen to some unargued thesis about how difficult it is to be a mother. It's hard to be a wife and mother, it's hard to be a normal citizen at all, and it's been hard so far in this country. I believe that the first changes under this law will exactly be something called positive discrimination in Serbia, because the forces that will bring reform to Serbia have an understanding of that as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14591	He has the word Mr. Velimir Simonovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14592	Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague before me has so confidently stated that our school system is making people fallible. I couldn't stand not to answer that -- at least that's not true of the university.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14593	There's a word Mr. Zoran Radovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14594	I answered because my exposure, part if not everything, was interpreted wrong. You said earlier that article 14 guaranteed equality for people in Serbia, that no one has the right to apply political, racial and other discrimination against them. This looks like you're sticking to the Constitution and the law. Then how can you send someone under the jurisdiction of the district court to another country, how can you extradite third-country nationals, you're in power, I'm looking at you all here, how can you do that? That was basic. There's another thing about maternity care. I've tried in a picturesque way to explain that you've definitely abolished the right for a woman who has a third child to be a two-year-old. That, as the minister realized, whether or not it increases birth, I leave it to you to agree, but it will certainly be an incentive and stimulant for women to give birth if they have the benefits of the state. And now you're running the state and you're taking care of your birthright. Let go of what happened 10 years ago. You've been in power for a year. For all the information I've said, I won't hide the sources, and I will, if necessary, answer to the police for the sources I mentioned. So I'm not afraid. Therefore, you seem to be in pain of truth, and it reads - the law is nakarad. (Milka Marinkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14595	He didn't mention you. The word has Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14596	The truths that opposition representatives make for this speaker are simply painful. When a gentleman, I don't know his name, unfortunately from the SPS, comes out and starts saying how bad this law is and how good he was before, he must have some argument. When it comes to birth in this country, it should be made clear who is the main culprit for the fall of birth in this country. The main culprit for the fall of birth, and I will document it afterwards, is the former regime that ruled this country, primarily the SPS, and together with them and their sopranos and half-trons, those who supported them, those parties that gave them the power to rule. But in order for it to be appropriate, I'll read you some data that... (Alexander Vukic: Come down, you dirty bastard.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14597	I'm taking a 15-minute break. Resume session is at 4.30 p.m. [[After a break.]] Please confirm the quorum. We'll wait a little while if DOS deputies come back to the O.R. We can determine that we really have one historic situation, that the party in power leaves the session. I'm not familiar with the reasons. We don't have a quorum yet. I don't know if I should take a break. Mr. Jovanovic informed me that DOS MPs will return because they have a parliamentary club. We can take a break for half an hour. We'll continue at 5:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14600	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, in your absence, at the time that you scheduled to be here in this room, you gave a half-hour break, I can't say Mr., but Minister Milovanovic allowed himself to enter this room, to declare a group of MPs a gang, to use words about their parents, to use words about certain parts of the body, to be so vulgarly behaved that this comparison would humiliate a man who deals with the carriage business. Therefore, I am reporting a breach of Article 102. Rules of Procedure on the work of the session. I report that I am simply ashamed, as a citizen of Serbia, that there is such a minister in the government, who manages the state of Serbia. I ask that the MPs present be made aware of the violation of this Article 102, done by the minister's conduct, and I remind you that we have the right to replicate what he has managed to say for those four and a half minutes while speaking at this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-28-0.u14601	I think you'll agree that it's not possible to put something to the vote that was in the session break and where the MPs were not present. I'd like to make a statement about the following: I suggest we interrupt this session and continue on Monday. Please make your point. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I put it to a vote. For 87, against 62, the abstentions did not vote 6, and a total of 155 MPs were present. We'll continue Monday at ten o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 173 MPs attend today's session. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Višnja Nežić, Vladan Jovicic, Išpanovich Istvan, Biachi Anton and Kermeci Karolj. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF RAD (addition) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Stanko Kovacevic.
