ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11842	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 170 MPs attend today's session. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have announced that they will be absent from the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Stanko Kovacevic, Boris Karaičić, Karolj Kermeci, Dusan Golubović, Laslo Torde, Višnja Nežić, Milena Milošević, Zaharija Trnavcevic, Petar Misic, Neda Arnerić, Dragan Šutanovic, Vojislav Jankovic, Nenad Lemajić, Arsen Kurjački, Vasilije Pavić, Miroslav Martic, Zoran Boskovic, Branislav Pomorijski, Momcilo Trajković, Vojislav Doshen, Aleksandar Vatović, Sredoje Mihajlov. Ljubisa Djokovic announced she would not attend the afternoon session. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: - SUMMARY OF THE DECISION ON FINISHMENT OF FUNCTION, DISCUSSION AND CHOICE OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS (sumption) The People's MP Slobodan Janjic has the word. Mr. Janjic, please wait, as Mr. Simonovic has answered according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11843	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listening to yesterday's debate on candidates for prosecutorial and judicial functions, I got a very bad impression. The whole thing's very ill-prepared. And that's where I resent our Justice and Administration Committee. And from this pay phone, I hear new information about some candidates, very ugly data, and especially in the towers of fellow interior MPs who bring very bad data to some candidates, but they don't want to come here, because maybe these candidates are proposed by DOS parties. I'm not getting into that. For all this, I suggest that this point be removed from the agenda of today's session, that all these proposals be re-examined and that, eventually, we wait for a new law on courts. After all, we don't know whether the prosecutor's office is legal or not, Mr. Nedic. I've got one piece of paper that shows that he's withdrawing the submitted motions for a choice of public prosecutors. So we already have something that's been withdrawn. That's why I think we should wait. We don't have to wait for the law, but we can hold a regular session in ten days, and in the meantime we can get new information on these proposals, resume our Justice Committee, and then we can vote here. There's a danger that we're wrong about some people. We'll apologize to them. Let them wait till we can do it nicely. Now, we have very bad impressions of this proposal. I'm asking you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11844	Not entering your opinion, which you have announced, I must say that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible to declare this by voting. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is possible for an authorised representative of the motionor, i.e. the one who has requested the appointment of an emergency session, to decide on the withdrawal of the proposal, i.e. the authorising officer, in certain cases, to perform the duties of the public prosecutor, and in other cases...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11845	I'm one of the motions for an extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11846	One yes, but one of 126. Not by entering the correctness of your position, not by estimating it, but only by means of the option of the Rules of Procedure, I find that the Assembly cannot declare it. Here you go, Mr. Janjic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought you'd accept Professor Simonovic's offer, but you can't think straight. And when these warnings come out of your ranks, you don't call your senses. You came here to blindly perform some tasks, not thinking for yourself. What are you even coming here for? You send cards, as you do, because you have two in your pocket, and vote. This is really embarrassing. I want to point out one failure of the Justice and Administration Committee. Gentlemen, you hide a lot of information from the MPs and the public of Serbia. Find me the names of the other candidates for judicial functions in the municipalities: Vladic's Han and Surdulica. All it says here is who's named, and who's competing, with what characteristics, there's nothing about it. How do we discuss the candidate for the election of the President of the Municipal Court in Vladica Han, when I don't know who took part in the competition? How am I supposed to point out who the man is? I know these people. They live in my midst. The Committee has not delivered complete documentation on all candidates at all. Here's the first case. Vladicin Han municipality court - Goran Spasic is elected. It's a young man who got the judge's name when he was two, ten months and 23 days of internship. The first and basic condition - that he has three years of work in a court or work experience - is not respected. You've violated the first and basic condition that a man needs to meet to be a judge, not to be the president of a court. The President of the Court is something else. Also, for no candidate to give the results of the work, so that we can make good decisions about these people. You could have gotten the information. The gentleman from this demon-Taliban sect, visiting southern Serbia, has not visited a single court...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11848	Mr. Janjic, I give you a warning. Watch your language.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11849	Mr. Chairman, did you recognize this gentleman from the Taliban cult? Tell me his name if you recognize him, then give me a warning. Who's that? Go ahead. This time you stop me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11850	I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11851	The President of the Municipal Court in Bujanovac is elected. The only objection to the court's former president is that the lady opposed Mr. Nebojsa Covic in the kidnapping of a factory in Pcinjska County. It's the only grudge. A man who was appointed President of the Municipal Court in Presevo in 1999 comes to her place and therefore gets a substantial loan from this country to work in such a difficult environment, he follows the orders of Nebojko Covic to move the Yugoslav Army out of a barracks owned by CEC Kumanovo, formerly a factory from Macedonia, dislocates the army and sends it to villages. That is why the remaining Serb population intends to leave Presevo because there is no protection. It's the only work result so far. About the candidate from Bosilegrad, unfortunately, I can't say anything, because I haven't been able to get any information, because no one knows who's competing and who's going to be the candidate. For the Municipality court in Surdulica, Mrs Mirjana Mitic is proposed. The lady in question has a criminal record (I'll give you that application, Mr. Chado, since you're looking for evidence) signed by 225 employees of the flag plant from Surdulica. These are not anonymous criminal charges that you've given to your municipal committees, to send to all honest people in small and large places, to accuse them, so that you can replace them. Here's what that criminal report says. On the basis of the solution given, no. 503 of that date and that date, by the Judge of the Municipal Court in Surdulica Mile Mitic, the Stračka Committee of the flag from Surdulica submits to the prosecutor, as a competent, criminal case against Mirjana Mitic, the Judge of the Municipal Court, for the criminal offence of the official position (Article 242). The KZ Serbia) and the criminal offence of violations of the law by the judge and the criminal act of unconscious service work (Article 245.). She was named guilty because on 10 September 2001 she made a solution with the adopted interim measure that sued Stamenko Jankovic, director of the flag-pes, allowed Prosecutor Vladan Markovic to enter the office to take over the office of the V.d. Director, all based on an unconfirmed, illegal and illegal decision made by the Management Board of the flag, which was certified after the withdrawal of the seal and which the decision Stamenko Jankovic did not receive, nor were the same until today delivered to DP "Stava-PES" or to the Zastava plant, as you will. With the same solution, Judge Mitic ordered Stamenko Jankovic, director, to hand over the director's duties under the threat of fines, although that decision of the Management Board said that the handover of duties would take place within eight days. Once again, we note that the decision in question and the other documentation on the organisation of the company Zastava-PES has not been received, and we certainly know that it is in the agreement on the reorganisation of the company Zastava. It is an agreement between the flag company and the government of the Republic of Serbia, it has been said that existing directors until their mandates expire will not be changed. That's a union deal. Once again, we note that we have not received this solution from the Municipal Court in Surdulica, nor has our director been given this solution, but rather the judge against whom we file a complaint is sent to the DP "Stava-PES" patrol of the police and the judicial executive who takes away our seals and allegedly puts them in the court's archives. However, he publicly tells the three of Covic's thieves because there is evidence, gives these stamps and they write decisions, the three of them, and asks in a commercial court to sign up as directors and everything else. Is that what you call court presidents? What awaits these citizens with such court presidents? When making all these decisions, a member of the Board of Directors of the flag-pes has not been invited, and it is an obligation to invite a member of the Management Board from a working organisation to attend a meeting of the Management Board. Still, he's meant to say something about his task force. Evidence of this - to make an insight into the case file No. 503/2001 and the hearing of the witnesses Kostic Jordan, all the workers of the flag-pes and all the executives. Without a doubt, Mirjana Mitić intended to benefit once, and in this case it is Vladan Markovic, and the other one is also causing damage in the specific case of DP "Stava-PES" and Director Janković Stamenko, who has enjoyed Surdulica and the environment until today. It also clearly indicates that the decision to which she was called is untrustworthy, illegal, and from organs that did not work in that factory. That finding is confirmed by the fact that a temporary action case was submitted one day, and the same day a temporary solution was reached, on the same day an assistance of 26 police officers was received to force Covic's junior into the factory. Well, it couldn't, the flag-pes has 240 complex workers and MPs standing with them in the machine. Come down and see him. In addition to this note, the judge mentioned did not carry out any checks on the regularity and legality of the decisions in question, since they were not listed at the flag-pes, nor certified by the seal, nor tried to establish it, even though a regular legal solution was reached. In this way, the judge has injured the reputation of our director and DP "Stava-PES", there has been an impasse in production, as workers have strike against these illegal decisions and there has been major material damage to this country. (President: Time. You've been interrupting me for three minutes and just until I'm done. (President: Please finish. I'm just saying, I agree with you, this isn't a legal state. You're still at large, I'm speaking to you, Mr. Chad. You've done a material damage of 70,000 marks and the prosecutor is prosecuted on official duty. We don't have a request here to remove your immunity, so the judge can take action against you. There really isn't a rule of law. Do you need an additional explanation? Mr. Janjic, please leave the pay phone. Let me just say one more sentence and I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11852	You've run out of time, you've got two warnings, and I'm taking your word. Don't play with the Assembly. Replica, Mr. Jovanovic, and then Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11853	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite personal character, this debate should be serious. Given that certain performances are more than serious, I would ask you to use them as an additional argument, given that it is difficult for some MPs to expect their own performances to be convincing enough. In view of what was said yesterday and my public promise that, in front of the DOS parliamentary group, we insist on the best solutions, I, meanwhile, have obtained an argument that is completely denying some of the criticisms raised yesterday. In particular, in the case of a proposed solution to Cachak and a public defamation of a person from Lebanon. Therefore, I ask my fellow Serbian Radical Party MPs to publicly attach the documentation he has, so that the Justice Committee can discuss everything after this debate is over. So the same way the people mentioned here yesterday did. It's about a man from Cacca who contributed receipts of a paid tax and thus denied his fellow citizen. It is about a gentleman from Leban who has submitted the 1992 court rulings, who are completely denied the views of the Serbian Radical Party that have been referred to as criticism. So please, in future, hand over that argument to the entered form. If you want to make sure of the argument that is made by the people who have been publicly defiled to us, you will have to participate in the work of the congregation bodies because the congregation speaker is no place for that kind of work. One correction - I've been on the loose since October 5th and I feel wonderful.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11854	Replica, Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11855	Since Mr. Ceda Jovanovic mentioned the Leban case, it means it's a lawyer named Borivo Kocic who doesn't have a single day's internship as a judge, and I'm not only confirming what I said yesterday, but I'll even add some new information. Mr. Borisvoje Kocic has even committed a crime two years ago, because he divorced his spouses, forged Mrs. Stamenković Radmila's signature, born 1951 from Prekopcelica, married to Bučomet. Three months ago, a woman went to pick up a copy of the marriage certificate and found out she was divorced. The lawyer himself forged her signature and divorced her without the woman knowing it. It is about Judge Nedeljkovic, and the lawyer is Ivanovic Tomislav, who is currently working on the crime, so that this lawyer, whom you represent to be the President of the Municipal Court in Leban, has much more to say, and soon you will read in some daily newspapers that are already coming out tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11856	I will give you my word in the Rules of Procedure, but I would ask the messengers of the people to understand where they are located. This is a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and this way to discuss people who are candidates for the holders of judicial functions or prosecutorial functions is simply incorrect. What you're saying, both yesterday and today, and what kind of debate you're having, with information that you can't claim to be reliable, is simply incorrect to the people that you're talking about, even if what they're talking about is true. There are congregation committees where these arguments can be made. There's always time for these facts to be checked and it's the right place to discuss things like this. About these things, getting out in public like this -- I think it's extremely incorrect. Please keep that in mind. Of course, you can disagree with that, but I'm telling you what my position is. Please keep that in mind in the course of the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11858	Mr. Nikolic, don't disturb Mr. Wolf, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11859	Mr. Martian, don't bother me, and don't worry about everyone else. So, I would point out the violation of Article 99, which is made by the President of the National Assembly, and I would also use one sentence to answer what was said earlier. Namely, don't every time you don't have an argument or when the argument of opposition MPs doesn't add up, and that's what you're saying, in a nice way, normally, perfiduous way, you're all a little bit silly, incorrect, you're the one who's making fun of the National Assembly, etc., which is absolutely not true. As for those things we talked about yesterday, I'm gonna get you a court-certified transcript...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11860	Mr. Wolf, you didn't answer the line, you wouldn't even have the right to a replica. You have reported to the Rules of Procedure and you are violating the Rules of Procedure by abuse of the right to appear in the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11861	Are you giving me a warning? You give a warning - Mr. Jovanovic answered the line and did not talk about it at all, but spoke about what happened yesterday, and you did not give him a warning, and he talked about it for two minutes. You gave me a warning after five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11862	You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic answered the line to Mr. Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11863	He wasn't talking at all about what was the subject of the replica, Mr. Martian. I know that's your problem, because the truth hurts. I'll hand it over to Mr. Jovanovic, and he'll take it, and I'll deliver it to you, too, maybe you don't care. If it's nice and normal for someone who beats women in the middle of the street and gets sentenced to jail for it, if it's normal, and if it's not supposed to be talked about, tell us, we won't talk anymore, we can shut down the Assembly, then we'll all be uninformed, not just you. Then there's no problem. In this way, you can solve all the problems in Serbia. We don't have to talk about anything. We can only praise you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11864	I'm really sorry, and to conclude this round, which you consider nice exposure to perfection, but I guess that's your common position. According to the Rules of Procedure? Replic on the...? When did you mention it? (Rajko Baralić, from the place: The mention is Cačak. You're Mr. Baralic, you're from Cačka. Did you challenge yesterday's application for court? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11865	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is in the interest of Mr. Zoran Pesic and the Democratic Party not to mention him here anymore. It's in the interest of the County Public Prosecutor's Office in Chačka that you don't defend him anymore. Please once again, the tax is paid by the rules and voluntarily, either paid by coercion or in cases where someone does not do so properly, in a legally prescribed manner. For reasons that are personal, as well as reasons that further motivate me to be a gentleman, do not defend anyone in this way. This National Assembly will make an ugly concession with this election to Mr Zoran Pesic and the people in the judiciary and the Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11866	The People's Messenger Zoran Radovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11867	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, continues another session showing the true face and all the unfulfilled promises of the DOS government. In an exposé of prime ministers for the formation of the new government, it was said that there are four and five conditions for stable Serbia and its accelerated development. The second condition, I will quote it: "Stable democratic institutions in Serbia, primarily uncomplicated government, independent judiciary and personal property security". You can read about personal property security on the pages of the yellow press and other newspapers. I can't talk about unsuspecting authority - until you agree with each other, whether the government is corrupt or not. As for the independent judiciary, I think that promise, like all your promises, is now unfulfilled. The promised reform of the judicial system has turned into a shift of people and into bringing in obedients, even though you have been saying that for the past ten years only party people have been brought to the lead. The highest-ranking posts in Serbia's Supreme Court, the Belgrade District Court, were brought by listeners and against the legislation. If one of you remembers, and I think you've already forgotten, you've said that governments used to rule decrees. Is there worse rule than nearly 50 regulations and 50 decrees by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which puts the executive power above judicial and legislative? You've announced 30 passed laws and passed 30 laws, only three of which are systemic, and all the rest are amendments and additions to our laws. Among other things, you announced the law on courts and you didn't adopt it. You block the work of the Supreme Court, you block the work of the Constitutional Court, and everything in all of your promises remains very little. Mr. Jovanovic, head of the DOS parliamentary group or D-OSA or TOS, or I don't know what, said that we are talking here and will respect the arguments and arguments of our MPs from the field about the selection of individual people for the main judicial functions. The President of the Court of Commerce and the President of the District Court are elected in Nis. Let's take it in a row. The President of the Court of Commerce in Nis was elected on December 1st 1999. The views that all of you received, which were sent by the presidents of economic courts with the name and last name and signature, say that the atmosphere was mainly created by political review of the work of the courts, which is a kind of pressure on the judiciary and in no way contributes to the independence of judges and the autonomy of the judiciary. As a major complaint, Mr Jovanovic repeated it two or three times yesterday, he said, due to the change of the president of the economic courts, it is a disastrous situation and the impunity of the courts. I'll read you the information on the court's impeccableness in Nis. I'll give Mr. Jovanovic, so when he gets the information, then let's see if that's true or not. In 1998 4,213 cases were transferred, and received that year 17,323, a total of 21,000, were solved 15,621, and nearly 6,000 were left unsolved. It was 1998, when this Mr. Dragan Zdravkovic, the current president of the court, was not the president of the court. Since becoming president of the court, 5,900 has been transferred, received 15,000, solved by 17,000, means 3,000, and something transferred in the following year. So 2,500 has been solved since last year. Such a trend continues in 2000 and 2001, so the total number of items received increased by 30% every year and decreased by 2,000 or 3,000 each year, so I don't know who's talking or where. These are the data that you have in the Serbian Supreme Court bulletin, it is created annually and every economic court is obliged to deliver these data to the Supreme Court. So these are official official government records and there's no one here within a millimeter of impeccableness. If you want, since I'm only talking about Nis, ranking Serbia's economic courts according to the number of cases received and resolved by one judge, you have it in the Serbian Supreme Court newsletter. Nis, total received by one judge, means the judge's burden, which is 1,652, and solved about 1,765. Every judge in Nis was solving cases from last year, I'm talking about the final term, so we can't talk about the impunity, ineffectiveness and disorganization of the court here either. This is the data you can check, and I'll give Mr. Jovanovic later. On the other hand, this gentleman is due in two years. Yesterday he mentioned from this pay phone that some people in Nis participated in the work of election commissions, and responsiblely I say that the man we're talking about was in 1992 the secretary of the Federal Election Commission, in 1997 the secretary of the Republican Election Commission, and in 2000 the secretary for the presidential and federal elections. There were no objections to these committees in Nis. I'm talking about these commissions. So, to the work of these committees, where the gentleman was secretary of election commissions, there were no objections, which you can verify, and this was signed by people who were in front of DEPOS, in front of the Together Coalition and DOS in the elections. This thesis, which has been said for this speaker, is absolutely not true. I don't know what more than reliable data needs to be attached to solve as necessary. By the way, as far as the President of the District Court is concerned, I think that only in Nis, in the area of the county court, remains recorded as having been present at the Committee meetings, and I am reading your official report, which took place on 19 July, 28 August, 31 August, 12 September and 7 September, a candidate. One name was for the President of the District Court in Nis. On September 18th, because of petty disputes in the ruling coalition, the name changes, and you get it in the material, and instead of the proposed candidate, we get a new name. So five times the Committee has confirmed one name, I repeat five times, and that's the Justice Committee. If we had voted on the sixth session of the Committee, during the session itself and Monday, we would have voted on that name, and you changed it on Tuesday. I think this is a joke with both people's names and the judiciary itself. If you take the information that the man you suggested to be the President of the District Court, not a socialist, but the DOS suggested him to be a doctor of legal science, and now Mr. Chado, and you can check that out, you suggested a lady who would retire in six months. If the term of office lasts four years, who will fill three-and-a-half years as the president of the court, or maybe it is just a transitional solution, because there is a small gap in the name of the District Court president in Nis and other parties in Nis. I think if we go hierarchically, some more large names from the federal level are involved in this story, and it would be good to repeat myself with names -- I apologize to the president, I end up -- with the names of people and judges of the higher part. If what you did a few days ago, when you took off and suspended the investigation against 14 NATO leaders, an independent judiciary, you will be laughed at by generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11868	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11869	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask you once again, I will appeal to you as representatives of the citizens who elected you, I remind you of my call for an argument, not to use the way you've done it so far. We are prepared to invest and listen to your every argument, but how can you speak of the current President of the Court of Commerce in such a way as not to mention that he was the secretary of the SPS and that this is the person against whom a criminal report has been filed for organised election theft in 1996 in Nis. How can you talk about Dragoljub Nesic from the District Court when he was president of the election commission. Don't expect us to abolize you and the people you've shot for the past 10 years. We want decent Serbia, and we do not want to see those who made it Europe's most unfortunate society in the seats of the President of the Court. Be like some other representatives of the opposition and find something that will help us, we don't need judges who have been prosecuted and who have beaten up people in the streets. But don't ask us to vote for those who held this society in an accident for a decade. These people are going to the indictee's bench, if we ask ourselves, and not as president of the court. That's what I guarantee you, because that's what this company expects.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11870	This was a replica, not according to the Rules of Procedure now, so the replica on the replica. Say, a replica of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11871	Dear fellow MPs, the parliamentary majority of DOS has both the right and the opportunity to propose and choose whoever they want. And that's exactly what they're using. The truth is, and this is about Nis, and there are members of the Justice Committee, so they can deny what I'm about to say. On September 18th, we received a new proposal for Nis. Even someone asked why change, why today. The board members have heard no argument as to why anyone is changing, despite this story, we have heard nothing. We heard-- we made a deal. When you've agreed, let it be known that you've made a deal. On what basis did they agree? We didn't hear that. So much swearing in professional quality, and one word - we agreed. That's what you should know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11872	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11873	I report a violation of Rule 96's Rules of Procedure, where my presentation was misread and where Mr. Jovanovic said a series of false things. I wasn't talking about names, that a gentleman I was talking about was the secretary of the SPS in Nis. It never was, you're the ones who gave you that paper, lied. So, they lied to you, and this gentleman, both of them, were never the secretaries of the SPS in Nis, Mr. Chad. So, a sharp criticism of the Democratic Party in Nis for poor and unquality data. That's one thing. The second thing, I read you the data a little while ago, and you said you needed an argument. Is there better information than the argument that so much and so much has been solved, much more than years ago. Is that a better argument? You're coming out here now, starting with that dramatic mystic variant, raising your voice, we're afraid there. No, I spoke quietly, softly, subtlely, and reasonedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11874	This was according to the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word, and after him, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation in the judiciary is difficult, extremely difficult. These words of mine come from the material given to us by the Justice Committee to the MPs. I couldn't agree more, as an SRS MP, with that, just to add -- the situation in the judiciary is disastrously bad. Why is that, we should all ask ourselves. The fact is, no one can deny it, that this condition is burdensome due to the legacy of the previous regime. But what is a fact and no one can dispute is that since 5 October 2000, from the moment DOS violent takeover of power, the situation in the judiciary has been extremely difficult and catastrophically bad. In every sense, I see this as a negative consequence of DOS taking over. In two examples, I will try to prove to you that what DOS is doing in the judiciary conditions this difficult situation. After all, MP Pavlovic from DOS also spoke more about it. The rest of us can only confirm through our presentations of this discussion. First example - the appointment of the President of the Court of Commerce in Subotica. It's Mrs. Anna Marki-Bin. Mrs. Bean is an extremely bad judge. When I say bad judge, I can't and I don't want to say any bad words about her moral and human qualities, as a person and as a man. When I say bad judge, I think of her work and professional qualities too. Mrs. Bin, and you have this in the proposed material, for 17 years working in the municipal court, it's been going through a lot of places, for one single reason -- because of a large number of abolished verdicts and because she was a bad judge. From the guilty, it was transferred later to the citizen. In the civil society, she worked on several reports, so that today, while still working in the municipal court, she would end up in out-of-party proceedings. Isn't that enough proof how bad a judge Mrs. Bean is? The only reason she's qualified is because she's a member of the Duke Hungarian Union. If this is to be a qualification for its proposal, DOS MPs, it is necessary for Ms. Bin from the Municipal Court to be transferred to the Court of Justice today and that it is immediately, (no matter what legal regulations and probably legal practices require that justice should work for at least four or five years in a particular court, to apply for the court's elder), we are choosing as an elder of the Court of Justice. Is it even more to say that DOS is really the worst? You're showing it the most through this example. Another example - the appointment of the President of the District Court in Subotica, Mr Tamaš Korhec. I will ask the President, Mr. Martian, that the time I will use for reading and for a quote from the reasoning provided by the Justice Committee be taken at the time of the presentation. I'll explain why I'm looking for this on Mr. Korhec's case. I read the explanation: "In accordance with Article 41. The law on courts, the minister of justice and local self-government has announced.... "(not to read further) "the President's election in vacant seats in all courts in the Republic of Serbia for 2001". The second view says, "For all the candidates registered who meet the legal requirements for selecting a judge of a particular court, opinions have been drawn up on professional, working and other conditions for the exercise of judicial office." Here's the first evidence of why DOS is the worst. This is Batić's uncle. We need to get rid of the President of the District Court at today's meeting. So the place isn't empty. How could he sign an ad? He could have. You seem to know what you were going to do, so you could choose now. The second thing, the District Court, as competent to give an expert opinion, is not at all asked for their expert opinion and possible expertise to accept Mr. Korhec as their elder. Mr. Korhec didn't even get a positive opinion at the Justice Department. How come he's even in this material? It's because he's been politicized by DOS, at the request of Mr. Kasa, since he's his own candidate, he's proposed here, and today he'll be elected Judge of the District Court and, on the very same day, as the district court's elder. Here's the thing. Second, in the district court itself, because of the systematization of jobs, there is today no vacant place for judges. What do you DOS deputies have to do today? To violate the basic basic standards of conduct and the work of MPs. We've brought the budget. There is no additional funding in the budget for paying another judge, as there is no job in the District Court. You'll break the budget, too, I guess. But nothing, it's you, it's DOS. So there's no empty seat for Mr. Korhec to be accepted as judge, let alone today for the President of the District Court. One more piece of evidence - Mr. Tamash Korhec is a pensioner. He retired in 1993. As a pensioner, he opened the bar for four hours. You're taking him from a lawyer to be judge and president of a court, a retired. Mr. Tamash Korhec has 39 years of employment. Mr. Tamash Korhec is 64 years old. Gentlemen of the DOS, and by force of the law next year, Mr. Tamash Korhec, if you take him into court today, in a working relationship, he will have to retire again. Why did he retire? Mr. Tamash Korhec was judge of the Supreme Court of Vojvodina in 1993. When he was proposed to move to Serbia's Supreme Court, he refused. The explanation was -- I don't want to be a judge of the Serbian court, I just want to be a duchy. Here's a reward question for you, DOS MPs: is the District Court in Subotica, which is in charge of the North Obaque, a court in Serbia? Will Korhec, when you choose him today, be the judge of the Serbian court? That's a question for you now. You can imagine, gentlemen, MPs from DOS. You'll vote today. We Serbian radicals will be against this proposal. I demand that the chairman also speak about the appointment of the President of the Court of Commerce and the appointment of the President of the District Court request individual statement. Mr. Korhec is a citizen of the Republic of Hungary. As a citizen of another country, he is also a lecturer at Segedin University. Shall I ask you, gentlemen of the DOS, what this Segedin means to you, and does it mean anything to you? Gentlemen, apparently Segedin means something to you. That's what you're suggesting. What Mr. Korhec has to do for the past year, until he retires by law, when you choose him today, he needs to pay back some debts. Since it was personally proposed by Mr. Kasa, and DOS politburo accepted it, the Justice Ministry did not give a positive opinion, the District Court did not consider how would it repay it? As Mr. Kasa has appointed the head of the MUP in Subotica, all criminal charges arriving to the MUP are being blocked. Now, Mr. Korhec, as the future head of the District Court, should ensure that these reports remain blocked, that no case will be passed by the MUP to the judiciary. What else does Mr. Korhec need to do? In the past year, if there is an opportunity to do so, to banish from the Northoba County judiciary, and primarily from its district court, all judges of Serbian nationality. Why - because many of them do not know and do not use Hungarian as a language in official use, with Serbian language, in Subotica. This means that the Hungarian language in the judiciary, in the Subotic district, will soon be the only official language. Gentlemen of the DOS, it's an honor and an honor to you, which is why you're really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11876	Mr. Michaelov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11877	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, we of the DSS, of course, are not satisfied with the way the existing law regulates the proposal of judges, and this is the law that you have passed, just so that the process of proposing would be so foggy and that the principle of division of power would be completely annulled. With this proposal and the existing law, it's simple, your law, the Assembly and politicians who decide on judges, and that's what's wrong. We at the DSS have submitted bill proposals, which are heading towards exactly the profession to be the one that will play a key role in proposing judges, that the Assembly can decide only on the proposal it receives from colleagues, from judges, from lawyers, and from prominent experts, who will be in these bodies, who will propose judges. This would narrow down this possibility of policy interference and simply limit the division of power, which is crucial for each country, and because of the responsibility of the government and the ministry, perhaps, to this extent, did not go quickly enough to change key laws. I think changing the law on the choice of judges and courts is the key thing and it's up to it to change the system. But we don't talk about it here, there will be debates and words certainly in one of the next sessions, but it should be said that the existing law is as it is and that you have brought it and maintained it precisely so that you can control judges and courts, and the result of one condition, a catastrophic one, in which our society itself has been, therefore, the judiciary is the consequence of your irresponsible authority and the full subjugation of the judge and the judiciary of politics, and we have witnessed it all these years. The DSS will also seek this proposal -- which is before you, which, of course, is not perfect and of course has objections to the judges, and these days all of these changes that we've been getting have just come because the objections from the field went in that direction -- to choose the best judges. And these judges who have been pulled out of procedures, which have not been given a positive opinion, are precisely because our colleagues are from the field and because the profession said they are not people who can perform those functions. The judiciary is one third of the government, according to us, and for me, one of the most important, to control power and protect citizens from that authority. And that is why it must not be an extended arm of power, but an extended hand of citizens. This proposal, of course, is not ideal, it's not perfect, because the perfect proposal we'll get when we get a new law on courts and the choice of judges. In front of this congregation, like everyone else, there is a great responsibility, which is why we should act responsibly. The choice of judges is not easy, especially if this assembly is turned into one debate, in which the names of various people will be withdrawn, argumentated or unargumented, especially if there was the possibility of certain objections being placed on these people, where they belong, on committees. There are people who do not participate in the work of the board, but you have received a proposal to elect judges many days earlier and you have been able to deliver it in writing to the committees, to participate in committee sessions, and in terms of whether these objections will be adopted or not, to perform here in the Assembly. The presentation of various objections, which are unargumented, is not similar to this one, is not similar to the people sitting in this house, or should at least not be like them, and in fact, personal morality is about morality and politics, and this may be best seen in this congregation. We will not, of course, use the DSS, and this time I would like to appeal to all those who resort to these extremely irresponsible, and to us, inappropriate means for one parliament, to simply concentrate on what are concrete remarks, rather than on the details of personal life, criminal charges that are at the stage of criminal charges that don't have to mean anything. There was a situation where criminal charges were filed just to make someone demeanor, to challenge him, and of course, without any basis, and of course, later those criminal charges were rejected. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: What about Gavrilovic?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11878	Mr. Seselj, I warn you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Remind me once more. I remind you twice. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Come again.) ) It is not intended for the Rules of Procedure - three warnings, and security complains that you are difficult to carry out. Come on, take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11879	So here, and these replicas show how some responsible job of selecting judges, changing the system, is experiencing responsible and serious and how much any serious job can hit a joke, on insecureness, and simply, to do and make a circus out of everything. This is a serious job, and I would invite all MPs to discuss this business and the choice of judges seriously and to take every judge seriously, if they have any objections, to discuss it seriously. Because simply, this assembly is not a place for circus, it's not a place for bar debates, this assembly is a place for cultural and civilised debates and cultural and civilised objections, because it's the only way we can have a reputation, which some keep trying to scold, and the Assembly, and ourselves in this power, to regain. Ladies and gentlemen, the manners some of them serve in this congregation are long gone, and that time must be what I think we'll never get back. In the way these judges were elected, we introduced changes, where we, regardless of the procedure provided for by law, did not commit, consulted judges, practice, lawyers, the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia, and in this way we wanted to include those who should cooperate with these colleagues, and to cooperate. If there is a need to keep coming forward and, eventually, bring objections to someone's debate, to someone's disputation, we will do so, but we believe that in a way of personal debauchery there is no need to appear and not to be debated in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11880	There is a word from MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Your Honor, on the agenda today, we have a resolution and a choice of holders of judicial functions, and that this is based on the Law on Courts, to respect the procedure, to respect the procedure, and in resolution, and in elections, there would be no such debate in the Assembly. With the President of the Commercial Courts, the presidents did not have an end to the term of office. Under the Law on Courts, the President of the Court may be dismissed during the term of office if his responsibility for non-execution is determined. Here, in the Assembly, it has not been proven. According to the information we have, business courts have done well. It's illogical that no president of the court is good, as it's illogical that all the good you've suggested. Basically, we're not in most cases against the people you overrun and we don't have any particular objections. Especially I have no objection to the choice in Prokuplje, but we are against the way in which you reach candidates in other environments. The candidates were proposed by the DOS people, not by the people of the profession. Someone said about this speaker that they should ask the profession, that they should decide colleges, that people in courts know each other best, and that they should decide who would be the first among them. One such proposal would, I think, have been unanimously adopted in the Assembly. In courts, people know each other well. The judge's colleges should have submitted proposals which of them could have been the president of the court, any, municipal, county or business. This way, we can't expect judges to judge by law, but at the demands of individual leaders. Some authorities use information funds against their political insinuators to publish newspapers and lawsuits and verdicts before the investigation and judicial authorities. I wonder if any of the judges can rule differently afterwards. The promised reform of the judicial system has turned into a mass shift of hundreds of people from judicial and prosecutorial functions. The basic selection criteria are from whose party you're from, or, if you want a function, you have to sign an access card for a particular party. This is not going to take us far. The Republic of Serbia has more than ever strayed from the rule of law. In a short time, it became a political state, where political trials are being conducted, and where judges are not judging, but politicians in power who are doing so are conducting: now we are in the way of this one, we need to charge him in such a order. All this is already clear to the citizens of Serbia on the basis of the fact that in previous work, within six months, the government has passed more than 50 regulations and decrees, setting itself above the National Assembly, the Constitution and the law, which clearly says who judges in our country. To illustrate that the government has no confidence in our courts and that it underestimates our judiciary is the extradition of our citizens to judge NATO judges, despite a clear ban in the Constitution to deliver our citizens to anyone. Following a decision by the federal constitutional court, suspended as unconstitutional by the government, the government makes an anti-constitutional and conflicting decision to kidnap Slobodan Milosevic and deliver him to The Hague tribunal. Woe to the state and to the judiciary where the government respects neither the law nor the Constitution. Now I understand under what conditions and political pressures will be judged by the judges and presidents we choose today. Since we are a minority in the Assembly, you will choose the proposed comrades for functions in the judiciary, and I congratulate them on their choice, in a desire to work by law and constitution and not to listen to political leaders of parties in power, because power is variable. At the very end, I want the judges we choose today, God given, to judge your leaders as they do to ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11882	There's a word from MP Pal Shandor. After him, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11883	Before I say the first sentence, I will note that I speak son of an ira et studio (unbiased). I want to be very principled, but that's why I'm sharp. Maybe I'll be uncomfortable. (Vojislav Seselj: According to whom? You'll see. For me, it's a basic question and a basic criterion, probably a dilemma, what kind of judge he must be, what kind of personal moral qualities he must have, and, in particular, what kind of court president he should be, who everyone else who's going to be his clerks or who he's going to sort of command. I suppose the first criterion is to be professional, to be qualified, to be honest and respected, to be seen in its midst. In the end, but not least, it should be moral. For me, it's not a morale thing to say a little bit persuasively - a fission, not a matchmaker, not a small player, not a hypocrite, not ready to abuse his situation. In particular, for me, this whole series of qualifications, which I have cited, is being asked as a sign of questions when it comes to people with dual citizenship. What moral predispositions they have when they report to the judges and, possibly, to the presidents of the courts. In our situation, especially in this political, dual citizenship has, however, been a longing for God, a retreat, some security. We've been here since the first day, at least as far as the Democratic Community of the Duchy Hungarians are concerned, very sharp in the struggle with the former position, but we've never been in a position to tell us, even though you've thrown it sometimes in the debate, that we have a reserve country, that we can get away somewhere, that we're going to leave the country where we live in the lurch and so on. In a situation where one of the members of the coalition appears to be the president of the court, and he is a double citizen, questions are really raised for me that I have raised. It is clear what the lawyers will answer: that this is legally possible. Let's discuss whether it's legal or not, and I think it's morale and not moral. If double citizens, according to them, can be citizens who trade, who do certain jobs, and do not claim to be leaders of national minorities and, therefore, participate in fierce political battles, even if they suffer the consequences, then at least it is moral to say that in this whole galamitia of the problem, which is ahead of them, they will participate until the end and without the rest of it, that they do not have a resignation, and not this prominent members of the SVM participate in the whole debate, the Talambasai, raise political tension, and at a convenient moment they will wipe us out, poor citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Yugoslavia, on the whole, that we are able to manage ourselves as we know and know it. That's the point of the problem I want to talk about. I think those who are tlambaying, who are tricking DOS in this way, are incorrect and politically ill-intentioned. They were the natural allies of the SPS at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. The logical question is how can now be the supernatural, the most natural and the first DOS allies and decide on the whole sphere concerning the Hungarian minority. That's a crucial question.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11884	Mr. Shandore, please stick to the subject. (Vojislav Seselj: This is the topic. You're right, Shandor. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11885	When they were in the coalition with the SPS, for example in Vienna, he was a foreign citizen, in this case of the Republic of Croatia, and by nationality - I must say - a Serb, a member of the SPS, was a language on the scale, so the SPS coalition - the SVM could only exist because that foreign citizen, who had no Yugoslav and Serbian citizenship, was president of the Executive Board, so there was an entire structure of government with him. So that's one of the essential questions. What are we going to do with these citizenships, who are being served by double subjects, what situation, how and in what way? The next question for me, and perhaps more important than this, is there among us, among the MPs sitting here, in this assembly, double subjects and double citizens? Whose country? And that's what I'm interested in. For what? Because according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly under Article 73(1), to ignore all other points, other than the sixth, decides on war and peace. How will those who are double citizens decide, for example, on these situations of war and peace, and not on God's behalf if it comes to any of the neighbouring states? I suppose there are reverse situations. What about this point 10, which also gives the National Assembly great authority. Will they take part in some of the next elections in one of the neighbouring SRJ states, and perhaps enter parliament because they can do so? So the crucial question here is what are we going to do with people who are one-two hundredths of national sovereignty, which has to be formed in some way. What about those decisions, with that local self-government, with everything that was done in Vienna, when foreign citizens held that power and when that authority was decorated in that Catholicism. What are we going to do if we choose such court presidents, so citizens, which I think is very counterproductive in multinational environments, are looking for a possible exemption from such court presidents, and God forbid they want to judge something. What happens if all three interested parties, judges, defendants and prosecutors are double citizens, etc. What's going to happen, and what's going to happen? We even say it's legally possible, but for me, it's politically hypocritical, and that's the essence of the story I'm trying to tell. Who puts the DOS into a situation, puts him in an awkward position, which makes a bear service to minority members? Please, they're all, as far as I know, more or less well placed and able to cope, and the vast majority of Hungarians live here are not, barza now, these privileges. They went into politics to provide themselves with well-being, and they created an organization to help, which comes from the side, distribute and then politically bind their clientry. That's how the SVM works. The only question is whether the Assembly has to adopt it or not. We can discuss this, and these questions need to be answered. I think it might be possible, but it's a question of whether it's meaningful.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11886	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11887	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, everywhere in the world, the court profession is trying to be independent, which must be with us. Despite all the difficulties, a subpoena is a privilege, a pleasure and a duty, and it is no wonder that there are a large number of lawyers who would like to become judges right now. The most interesting question of many was whether our judiciary would become independent after the new government arrived, which promised to implement an emergency judicial reform. However, it has been almost a year since the coming of the DOS to power, and almost nothing has changed in terms of judicial reform. The 1990 Serbian Constitution envisioned a strict division of power, independence and independence of courts, and the Law on Courts confirmed this, adding the continuity of the judicial service, as well as the withdrawal of the local authorities' role in the election and progress of judges, all the necessary parts of the legal framework in which independent justice can function. Our country's citizens believed that the new government would fulfill the promised and constitutional and legal obligations and contribute to improving the situation in the judiciary and strengthening its independence, the status of judges, and thus creating a climate of trust in the impartiality and objectivity of courts. However, there are no visible results in this area. The main question is who will be subject to the control of the law, which implies both aspects, and the rule of law in general, and rather all-legislative and judicial matters. If it's true, and that's how it should be, that the wisest people create the right and the strongest to interpret and apply it. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we must fight hard for the independence of the judiciary. When it comes to obtaining independence from the judiciary, the inevitable institution must be our parliament and that institution. Our judiciary must not be an extended arm or an instrument of executive authority. Otherwise, if we allow it, our judiciary will be thrown into the political arena of the hot DOS system and the uplifted DOS authorities. Our judiciary has never been in an unfavourable position like it is now. Therefore, the courts must not be laid down by the government, that they carry out cases through courts for which they are not competent as executive authority, i.e. The government and its resources. Our judiciary must not have an ungrateful role to play in the legal order of suspicious intentions of the executive authorities regarding the spread of its own privileges and powers. That is why parliament must become the Supreme Legislative Body in the right sense, which will be controlled by judicial authority. Judges are independent if they have nothing to do with their profession but respect the Constitution and the laws and follow their own conscience. In order for the judge to be truly independent, it must be fully achieved his personal independence from his choice, appointments, promotions in the service, enjoyment of immunity, disciplinary responsibility, layoffs, resolutions, transfer, that he is materially secure and that he is not under the control of the executive authority. Therefore, the executive power must raise its hands from the judiciary and not interfere with its work, and judges must act in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. The independence of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, legal professions, and in particular the judge, tyranny will have a free way of poisoning justice, so fair and fair judgment will remain an empty word on paper. Justice does not exist in courts exposed to the political influences of the central and local executive authorities. That's why courts have to ensure the rule of law over injustice. That is why we must build such a judiciary that will enjoy the reputation and trust of citizens. I would also like to stress that the right is too serious to be left to the executive power, even to the judicial authority, so parliamentary control must also be established over the judicial authority. The choice of legal holders, who were never judges, nor worked in court, is the wrong way to reform the judiciary. The Serbian Radical Party has no objection to the choice of judges from other structures and other lines in the first order of law-abiding and fair, professional and competent lawyers. However, the Serbian Radical Party is against the fact that someone who did not spend the day in the judiciary at 12 o'clock is elected as a judge and is elected as judge at 13 o'clock. What is this message to the judges of Serbia and what is it with messages to those judges who come for the presidents of the courts, people on the side. It's a message that none of the judges are capable of being a judge in that court. This means that we must not allow people who have no expertise to have no experience and ability to immediately become President of the Court. The elder of the judicial authority must firstly be the most professional and most capable and possess all the other qualities required by the Law on Courts and which requires the Constitution. Therefore, we are not for anyone to find prominent ones, and we are for lawyers to find a place in the legal system and in the judiciary, because it is everywhere in the West and in developed legal countries with sophisticated legal systems and the custom of coming to the most capable and professional lawyers, i.e. lawyers in the judicial service and dealing with the judiciary. What's the condition? The condition is that he must spend at least ten or fifteen years in court, in order to be entrusted to him by the judicial authority and run by him. It's one of the first-class conditions. In the election of judges, ladies and gentlemen, the will and mood and assessment of the judicial authority to which the authority's elder comes must be respected. Evil blood is created, dissatisfaction is created in courts in this way as choice is made. We have 28 proposed candidates on the side, and they didn't spend one day in the judiciary. They are proposed for the judge, so at the same session of the extraordinary session, they are proposed for the Presidents of the Court. There's serious dissatisfaction in those courts. Many of the judges in question have expressed unanimous opposition and disagreement, and they are against it - that the government interferes with the choice of judges, and this is also the fact that I read in the stenographic notes from the Justice Committee, the New Market case. Three or four times you put him on the list, you take him off the list. The Justice Committee of the Supreme Court says, please, if I'm wondering, he didn't deserve to be a judge, let alone be the President of the Court, because it's about suspicion and corruption. Should we suggest such people as those of the judicial authorities and the elders of the judicial authorities? No, it's a disgrace to the Serbian judiciary. There are good and honorable judges - and far more capable. What kind of message is that? It is therefore a message from the Members of Parliament, that none of the presidents of the courts and judges can be because a party has proposed to him its candidate, who truly does not meet the basic requirements of being the President of the Court. Not everyone can be the president of the court. According to this, it stems from the stenographic notes, as the proposal stems, should extend the hand of the ruling 18 parties. Imagine 18 parties, each fighting for his candidate to pass. That's what's wrong and that's what's relying on the previous government, which has been chosen by the party line, the party line here has to be shut down and the administration has to raise their hands. When I spoke about the case of the New Market, they said, two ministers are behind this proposal. Which two ministers? Vladan Batic and Rasim Ljajic. Can you do that? Can't, my brothers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have someone interfere with the administration and impose on the MPs. That's why it's no wonder, that's why people's MPs should not at all be prevented from discussing in detail and crystal clear to go out with who's being proposed for the judge, who's being proposed for the prosecutor and who's being proposed for the president of the court. It's been debated here for days and nights. The largest government in this country has courts -- and the judge has the highest power. Police on the street-- a police officer, and a judge when he judges, a judge says 20 years in prison, he's the highest authority. We are the declarative and formal legislative authority, but he is the greatest authority. (President: Time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize, Mr. President, if I may finish with a few more words. When it comes to subotics, you see, a man with dual citizenship has been proposed. Resolution 4032 and 40146 of the UN provides, prescribes and norms that only a citizen of the country concerned can be a judge. Please, second, whoever has dual citizenship has to be loyal to the state across the street. We're not gonna let anything like that happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I expected the Minister of Justice or the President of the Supreme Court to come to report on the situation in the judiciary without talking about V.D. condition. The D.A.'s office is V.D. The prosecutor, the judges, or the presidents of the courts, are V.D. It can't, it doesn't allow the Constitution... (President: Please complete the presentation. ....................................................................................................... Excuse me, one more word. Can't in any way be v.d. The role in the judicial system introduces, because it is regulated in the Company Act, and as you know, the public prosecutor's office and the judiciary are not enterprises, but the authorities of the judicial authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11888	The word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic. Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from the scene: To determine the quorum. I apologize to Mr. People's MP, we have an objection to the lack of quorum. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. If your colleagues were to identify themselves, you'd be less likely to wait for the quorum. This way you'll wait a little longer. We have 112 Members of the people who have identified themselves and nine MPs who are not, who will receive a warning when we determine the quorum. That's 122 MPs, so four more for a full quorum. I find that we have a quorum to continue the work of the Assembly. Before you begin the presentation, I am obliged to give notices to the MPs, Mr Nikolic, Mr Kesjejic, Mrs Jovanovic, Mrs Pop-Lazic, Mr Colic, Mr Arsic, Mr Veljkovic and Mr Seselj, for contempt of the Rules of Procedure and obstruction of the work of the National Assembly, because they have not been identified as being present in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11889	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the issue of the election of judges, prosecutors and the President of the Courts is certainly one of the most serious issues that this Parliament can discuss, and therefore, as an MP for the SPS, I am accessing this issue as seriously as possible. First, I want to express my dissatisfaction or dissatisfaction with the way our Justice Committee works, because we have witnessed that we have received various proposals for judges these days, for the presidents, for the prosecutors, for the deputy prosecutors, and then we have refused these proposals, or we have received notices that these proposals are being withdrawn, and we are actually unable to decide on them today. As an MP from the Mačvanski district, from the district court of Shabac, I would like to give this assembly some information on the functioning of the courts in Loznica, the District Court in Sapac and the District Court in Krubnje, and to refer accordingly to the proposals that have been presented as the material of the Justice Committee for this assembly. First of all, when it comes to the municipal court in Loznica, I would like to inform you about this, although it is a known fact, that it is one of the largest courts in Serbia, and at the same time one of the courts that has achieved the best results in the past four years, from 1997 to 2001. These results are measured by the frequency coefficient calculated on the basis of the number of items received, the number of cases solved, etc. At the head of that court for the past four years he's been...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11890	But there is no and no need to attack, that proposal does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11891	I didn't attack the proposal at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11892	And for some future session?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11893	Let me say what I think about it. So, I'm on the subject. He was headed by the court, and today, Mr. Jovan Krsmanovic, who besides two other candidates, has applied for the post of president of the court. In addition to him, Mr Zivadin Lazic, as well as Mr Branko Babic, a lawyer from Loznica, competed. That proposal for Branko Babic was here in the procedure and was withdrawn yesterday. We, as MPs, personally have no notice of why this proposal was withdrawn from the procedure, except for what Professor Hiber told me in the lobby, which is that it is that Mr Branko Babic had one verdict based on minor bodily injuries. There was talk about it in Loznica, and it doesn't say anything in the explanation. I thought that it was in line with that principled policy represented by Mr. Vladan Batic, perhaps the reason that Mr. Branko Babic is at the same time vice-president of the Municipal Committee of the Democratic Christian Party in Loznica. To be clear, I don't have anything against Mr. Babic, which I think would be the successful President of the District Court in Loznica because he was a successful judge before, and today he's a successful lawyer. I object that this proposal has been a figure of speech for a month in public and that yesterday, without any explanation, it is withdrawn from the assembly procedure. I think the Justice Committee could have been more rational in all of this and that out of the other two candidates who applied for the position of the judge, either Mr Krsmanovic, who is doing this duty today or Mr Zivadin Lazic, who has applied. It would not be a mistake for the Justice Committee and would not be wrong for this assembly if any of them showed confidence and today found that one of them and the President of the Court were. That's what I wanted to say. Mr. Lazic and Mr. Krsmanovic are well-known, and Mr. Babic, unfortunately, I have not had the honour of meeting him, but I have not heard anything bad about him and I think that proposal would be very correct. In that regard, Mr President, I wanted to make my point, not in the sense of challenging any of these three candidates, especially Mr Babic. When it comes to Mr Krsmanovic, I suppose he too has credit for the court's urgency and for the quality of the court's work, although we, the Socialists in Loznica, could be somewhat dissatisfied with some of the judgments that the municipal court made in September's local elections. Namely, the court annulled the elections in two parliamentary seats at the appeal or the DOS proposal and at that time the SPS had 33 council members, an absolute majority in local self-government. The elections were repeated at the end of October, when the federal government was already formed and when everything was known in this country. They have been repeated due to a technical error, a single vote that would not affect the overall score, as SPS candidates are convincingly, with more than 30 votes higher than the next candidates. The court annulled it, and we lost in these reelections, and thus lost local power in Loznica. So, some are sorry, and I am sorry, but I wanted to say that this court in Loznica, although Jovan Krsmanovic was considered a socialist and some accuse him of being a socialist today, was tried by law, by the rules of the courts, and we could have been politically dissatisfied, but we were not and in any other way complained about what that court did. There's one more thing I want to say about the court in Krupanj. That is, according to the data I have, and I suppose the Ministry of Justice also has these reports, I would not read here, the most convincing court in the Machuvan County and possibly Serbia. I refer to the court in Krupnje for the reason that the proposal for a law on courts and on the organisation of courts provides that the court does not exist in the future. Since Mr Batic yesterday invited all of us MPs to make some of our constructive contributions under the law, I would like to say a few sentences on the subject. You say it's not a topic, and I say it is, because it's about the judiciary, about the judges, and I've been informing you, Mrs Milka, not only of you, but of all the MPs -- that the municipal court, or the judiciary in the Krupanj municipality, has been known since 1417. Documents were found in the Dubrovnik archives that on July 27th, 1417, little larger Dubrovnik Republic ordered Dubrovnik consul Radien Mališić to judge disputes in the municipality of Krupanj, along with two judges. In recent times, the court has been uninterrupted since April 1931, saying it has existed for over 70 years. The law now proposes that the court be attached to the municipal court in Loznica. I remind you and inform the promoter that Krupanj of Loznica is about 30 kilometers away. (President: I would ask you not to open a debate concerning a item on the agenda that may be held in October or November of the month. It's something that's just gonna be on the agenda. Please talk about the subject. President, when that law appears before the Assembly... (President: When he shows up, you'll answer the word. Yes, but then you won't accept my suggestion. So now I want to make my point, so that the motionary has these elements in mind. I think I'm in the middle of something and don't blame me. The circle is an undeveloped municipality. It has 22,000 inhabitants and has 24 local communities. It's 30 kilometers from Loznica. But there are several villages, the largest, unfortunately, in that municipality, which are 60 kilometers from Loznica. There are four judges and a president working in the grand jury. In all, there are 24 employees. Also, there are seven lawyers working in Krukupnje. You can imagine a situation where these people from Krupanj, 60 kilometers away, have to come to Loznica for the simplest of court formalities, for example, claims of inheritance. Or you can imagine how a judge will work when he has to go from Loznica to, say, Shilovo or Stave, 60 kilometers away. We are talking about how judges in the future will do their job in the way that it is laid down by law and be in the interest of citizens. If the reason is rationalization, then it can't stand, because we're going to have to have a passenger car, time, etc. So, I am also finishing my story here, and I am asking the Proposer to reconsider his proposal and not submit such a proposal to this assembly - to abolish the court in Krupanj. When it is on the agenda, if that proposal is not accepted, then I will have to use the parliamentary right to discuss it again. At the same time, I propose that the Committee on Justice during today's session, when it comes to the municipal court in Loznica, establish a proposal for this assembly to either Mr Krsmanovic or Mr Lazic to be elected President of the Loznica court.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11894	I ask the MPs not to introduce a new practice, because it does not exist anywhere in the world, and that is to discuss laws that have not even entered the congregation procedure. Please let us still respect this congregation as much as we can. National MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11895	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 95 and 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I warn that Article 102 has been broken. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. President of the National Assembly, a Martian, gave a warning to Dr. Vojislav Seselj, the third in line at today's session. Article 102 regulates that this must eventually be resolved in another way. So either you have to say more or you have to skip this reminder that's been said here. Paragraph 1 of Article 102 states: "The measure of confiscation of words is expressed to the MP who has previously been given two warnings" etc. I am not in favour of Dr. Seselj being taken away from the word, but I am in favour of establishing that the President of the National Assembly has violated the Rules of Procedure, giving a third warning to the MP, which he has no right to do. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I think he wants to kick me out.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11896	That's exactly how I understand it, so thank Mr. Baralic for proposing this measure. I see my mistake. I have nothing to put to the vote, because I see a mistake and I admit that I have hurt the Rules of Procedure and at the proposal of Mr Baralic, MP of the SPS, I express the measure of confiscation of the words to Mr Vojislav Seselj. The word is Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11897	I'm very pleased that you're taking away my word without knowing why. First, a word can be taken away from a speaking messenger. An apostle who doesn't speak can't be taken away from his word. Secondly, you have begun to give notices to MPs who do not insert cards into MPs. My card was inserted. What your technique doesn't do, it's your problem. But you can't even make warnings until the quorum is established. You cannot punish MPs for what happened until the quorum has been reached. But you don't seem to know anything. I don't think that's it. You know something, but you're dizzy. What are you dazzled with? First, you went hard against Djindjic, against the Serbian government, accused them of crime, the murder of Momir Gavrilovic, etc. (President: Please stick to the topic. I'm sticking to the subject. I'm talking about your procedure and your violation of the Rules of Procedure. Then you capitulated. Kostunica capitulated in a conflict with Djindjic. You don't know what you're gonna do now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11898	On Mr Baralic's suggestion, given that you're speaking now, I take your word for it. Please leave the pay phone. The word is Mr. Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11899	Mr. President, no manipulation is allowed with the proposals of the MPs. My proposal was for the MPs to make known the violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which you have done. So you gave the third warning to the MP in a row, and you had no right to do so. My proposal did not go towards Dr Vojislav Seselj being taken away from his word. Please allow the MPs to declare whether you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 102.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11900	You know how it goes with the Rules of Procedure. Since I accept your objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, there is no need for the Assembly to plead. The assembly only pleads unless I accept the objection. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly gives reasons for objecting to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is understood that he explains that there was no injury. I, as President of the National Assembly, have accepted your objection and there is no need for the Assembly to plead, because a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been found. The immediate consequence of accepting your objection is that Mr. Seselj's MP is given a measure of taking away his words. The word is Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11901	Mr. President, I know you don't know that - you have the right to give a warning, you have the right to take the word away, but you have no right to establish that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. It's not your right, it's exclusively the right of the National Assembly. Who are you, Mr. President, one of us, that you say is a injured Rules of Procedure. And I go out for this pay phone and I say that the Rules of Procedure are broken, and then you put it to the vote. And when you say the Rules of Procedure have been injured, you must put it to the vote in the same way. The Rules of Procedure did not give you the right to decide whether or not the Rules of Procedure were injured. He only gave you the right to give an additional explanation to the MP, and then the MP decides with his own head whether he will ask for a vote on his proposal or not. And as you interpret the Rules of Procedure, it wasn't even in the worst communist regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11902	It was the time when you were in power, right, that I know what it was about. What was the member of the Rules of Procedure you objected to? (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: Article 95(2)) So, in this article 95, it reads: "If, even after the President of the National Assembly's explanation, the MP remains in that the Rules of Procedure is injured, then the Assembly is called for a statement." Are you satisfied with the answer, Mr. Nikolic? Are you staying in the conversation of a breach? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Why do you ask me, but you did not ask Baralic? Because I challenged it. So it is. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I would like a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Well, you can't go before Mrs. Jovanovic. Did you give up? (Employer Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Natasha has given up, so I am now reporting.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think all the conditions have been met that the President of the National Assembly will resign himself, so the Assembly won't resolve it. In Article 101. The Rules of Procedure state that the notice is made to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly President (this was not the case), who speaks before he has asked and received a word (it was not the case), who, in addition to the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of a matter that was not on the agenda (it was neither the case), if the interruption of the speaker in the presentation or in the case of the speaker, or in another way, interferes with the freedom of speech (these two were the first two warnings, but in other proceedings it is not this), if it is the facts and assessments relating to the private life of the other persons (it was not the case), if it is not the words and offensive terms (the first two were not used in life), if other proceedings violate order at the sitting or against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure (it is not met, because there are no sittings until the quorum has been established, when there are not being taken into consideration, that there is the law, that there is the law). The Rules of Procedure shall apply only to what happens at the sitting. Since the president obviously started whiskey this morning, and then the whiskey ran out, and he continued to cognac, it's very dangerous to mix cognac and whiskey, even if they're the best of quality, he doesn't seem to know what he's doing in this session. It would be best if the president himself resigned, so that at the first session of the regular session, the longest debate on him and his behaviour would not be conducted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11904	There is a word from MP Ljubomir Jovic. (Natasa Jovanovic asks for a word. You gave up, you said you gave up. ( Ljubomir Jovic comes out for a pay phone, and MP Natasa Jovanovic asks for a word. Well, come on, break it up with the circus, for Christ's sake. Excuse me, Mr. People's Parliament, your colleague intends to continue making a circus out of this House. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11905	Before the MPs of the National Assembly come forward with an initiative, and you will not resign, to be relieved from the office of the President of the Assembly, first of all to tell you that you, Mr. Martian, are making a circus out of this assembly, because whenever you come out for the reasons known to you, for five minutes, for ten, fifteen, leave the chairman who cannot use the Rules of Procedure, probably because of his reduced possibilities, in the way it is prescribed here. I'm advertising a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11906	Mrs. Jovanovic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11907	Article 1 and Article 28. Mr. Martian, you can't give me any more warning because yesterday's word was taken from me, because I already have two warnings. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure now, you don't know, you're having a break, you know, because you're a double personality, and you don't even know what happened when you weren't in the O.R. yesterday. The vice president, Mrs. Micic, opposed to the Rules of Procedure, took my word, and you gave me two more warnings today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11908	Then I ask you to come down from the pay phone, you have no right, you received the measure until I was in the O.R., and I was not informed of what my failure is, and therefore, but I expected that you, as a moral person, would know that your word was taken from you, not to seek, according to the Rules of Procedure, no, just a replica. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: So you said it an hour ago. He has the word Mr. Jovic. Gordana Pop-Lazic is asking for a word. Why are you making a circus, so don't make a circus of people, for God's sake?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11909	Mr. President, it is clear to me that when you carry out discrimination between opposition MPs and DOS MPs, but when you make discrimination between MPs of an opposition group, it really leads me to doubt - are you even able to sit in that seat where you sit, and then I wonder - are you now acting as vice president of the DSS or as president of the Assembly? If you're doing all this now as vice president of the DSS...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11910	Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11911	Just one, 102 and 113. Then I fully understand that you do not know the Rules of Procedure, and I forgive you, but if you speak as President of the Assembly, I cannot, unfortunately, forgive you again, because it is understood that there is something in this function that you need to know about this Rules of Procedure and stick to it as the letters of the law. This is not the first time you have broken the Rules of Procedure and made this situation in the Assembly, as you are now making - you are giving notice to the MPs because they have not put their cards into MPs' units. We have the right to put them in whenever we want, to take them out whenever we want. When we first enter the O.R., we identify ourselves, because what it means is, if that's how the Rules of Procedure would be interpreted, whenever we don't put our cards in when we vote, you could give us a warning. So think about it: what is it that he who brought this Rules of Procedure with him? You brought him in, and you don't know what you wanted with him, and now you're also announcing new amendments to the Rules of Procedure. We can only assume what you're going to do to us and what you're going to bring us. Who's going to interpret it later, when you don't know what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11912	Mrs Pop - Lazic, former Prime Minister Slobodan Milosevic, how did you do your job as a minister when you were unable to even learn the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? How did you do your job when you were unable to teach the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you claim that the MP can be identified according to his own will and purpose?- I'm sorry. You may have been able to express that will and intent during your time as minister, but today, for God's sake, you can't. There's an 80. Read it. The article states that the quorum is determined by the application of the electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is obliged - do you know what the word "debt" means, Madam MP - to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting the identification card into the MP's unit. The violation of this article is one violation of the Rules of Procedure, which interferes with the work of the National Assembly, and this distraction has been going on for 50 minutes. If you are not satisfied with the answer and the explanation, the congregation can make a statement about it. That, too, is an ex-minister from the Milosevic regime, you may know. Did you stay on the objection?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11913	We should vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11914	You plead first. Did you stay on the objection? We can vote later. I ask the Parliament to plead. I find that 19, v. 97, abstentioned one, did not vote 49 out of 166 MPs. I find that no objection has been accepted from Parliamentarian Gordana Pop - Lazic. Do you have any new ideas about breaking the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11915	Mr. President of the National Assembly, who will soon be the former president of the National Assembly, I advertise the violation of Articles 1 and 99. Rules of Procedure. If Mr. President thinks he insulted me by calling me former minister, I'm very proud of being a minister. I would be ashamed if I were a minister in this regime who would certainly be enrolled in black letters in the history of the Serbian people. For the government of the People's Unity, who at the time of NATO aggression did as she did and with the results she had...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11916	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, you can only talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11917	One more thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11918	You didn't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11919	Mrs. Micic, I didn't say anything to you. I spoke to the president of the National Assembly. Who sits behind me, I really don't see, I don't have eyes behind me. Whoever can't hear the answer to his words obviously has a personal problem. If you'd like me to talk to you, I can do it another way, but it wouldn't be pleasant for you, nor would you be happy to come back...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11920	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please return to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and give me the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11921	I said it was a member of the 1st and of the 99th. Please read and interpret.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11922	Since you have not quoted, I will quote Article 1, which says, "This Rules of Procedure regulates the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised." From what we've seen, you've violated Article 1 and Article 99, which you've also mentioned. Under Article 99, MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, which includes identifying them as they are in the National Assembly Hall. Are you satisfied with the answer? The word has also been reported by the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11923	On the basis of Article 96. Rules of Procedure, fellow MPs, I would like to express a protest on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, which also abuses the name of our party's president Slobodan Milosevic in holding a session. The President of the National Assembly is required to apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We heard that he himself admitted not to apply it in an adequate way. I'm asking him to lack further explanations for his work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11924	I believe the president of the National Assembly acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He didn't hurt the same. Of course he can mention former President Slobodan Milosevic, but it is the fact that he is the former president. What's your current party president, that's your problem. According to the Rules of Procedure, he has the word Mr. Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11925	I'm asking you to do it by article 80. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly determines the quorum. Mrs. Micic, you insult the National Assembly by chewing gum all the time while running the session. That's not polite.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11926	Since the MP asked us to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into their MPs. I ask the service to count down the MPs in the O.R. to determine if there is a quorum for further work. The count found that 123 MPs were present in the hall. Since we don't have working conditions, I'm taking a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 80, Section 2 and Section 4. Paragraph 2 says that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if there is more than half of the total number of MPs present at the National Assembly session. Item 4 says, "If the electronic voting system is not in place, which is being notified by the National Assembly president, the quorum is determined by the count of the MPs." That's what's done. However, I doubt the validity of the count and claim that there were more than 123 MPs. This is now hard to prove, so I believe that the Secretary of the National Assembly should take a look at the video, since this is not the first time that this is happening and to determine exactly how many MPs were in the hall at the moment of the count, so that we can remove any doubts from the counting service at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11929	Mr Risticevic, in article 80, stands - if the MP raises doubts about the existence of a quorum determined by the count of MPs, he may request that the quorum be determined by the denomination of the MPs, which is decided by the National Assembly without a search. However, this Rules of Procedure obviously deserves to be changed, because I don't know how the Assembly would decide if it wasn't determined to have a quorum, but good. It says so in the Rules of Procedure, so it was necessary that at the moment when it was happening, and now it's too late, suggest a roll call. The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Jovic and then a National MP, Ljubomir Mucic. We ask the Messengers of the people to be patient, for we have only thirty more reported messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11930	From the moment of Minister Batic's appointment as justice minister and local self-government, in any statement for this speaker or public appearance, Minister Batic announced a reform of the justice system. The reform of the judicial system implies a change of system laws, which means the Law on the judiciary and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. To this day, the Law on Courts and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office has not been amended, and for this reason, I would, with great attention and interest, comment on a few provisions of the existing Law on Courts in terms of resolution and in terms of the setting up of individual holders of judicial functions. It is indisputable that, within the meaning of Article 48. The Law on Courts, an initiative for exchange may be given by the minister of justice or by the competent body of the assembly. This initiative is submitted to the Supreme Court, with all documentation which may be of an impact on the launch of the initiative. The Supreme Court shall designate the Judge of the Rapporteur, who shall go to the competent court for which an initiative on the replacement of the President of the Court has been launched and shall establish the facts relevant for the decision to be taken. When the rapporteur determines the true state of affairs, a session of the Supreme Court judges shall be convened and a decision shall be taken whether there is a reason for the judge's dismissal, the president of the court to be proposed. I'm asking if, in the sense of Article 48. The law on courts, the observed procedure? The Justice Committee said that the president of the court was being sacked, because the opinion of the Justice Ministry is that it is a catastrophic situation in the judiciary, that it is a great emergency. If there's a really big emergency in the judiciary, then I suggest, if it's not done, that this impediment is indeed determined. Maybe there are the presidents of the courts who did really bad work, who worked against the law and who should be held accountable. I don't think that's what's going on, and that's why judges are being replaced based solely on the Justice Department's opinion. Much has been done in our Serbia lately on the basis of opinions. Let's do it by the law once, and I think if we're replacing people from the law, that's what we should do. In the sense of Article 45. Legally, those who have met the conditions for retirement should have a happy pension. It's really hard to work in the judiciary, but honestly and responsibly, but there's something that's on a personal request. Since October 5th, a lot of people have gone on a personal request, so I'm afraid it's not under any duress. As of October 5, people change whether they are successful or unsuccessful, precisely because of what they are doing on the basis of opinions. I'd like to say a few words about the appointment of the new president of the courts. In order to call a competition for the President of the Court, the judge should either have been removed or his term of office expired. At this session today, we will resolve individual court presidents and I wonder how the competition could be called, within the meaning of Article 41. The law on courts, for persons who have not yet been resolved or who have not expired the term of office. In the official messenger, the justice minister has called a competition for a seat in all courts. I don't understand how a court competition can be called, and where there's still a legitimate president of the court, who hasn't been replaced yet. The second and most important question I ask here, did the Minister of Justice, within the meaning of Article 42 of the Law, obtain an opinion on the professional and working conditions for the exercise of the judicial office for all candidates, above all, from the College of the Court, which is a candidate from the profession of the Judges, or from the bodies and organisations where he has performed his work, and in particular whether an opinion has been obtained from the Bar of Lawyers. Lately, it's a strange transitional deadline for a lot of lawyers to go to the judges, so I wonder if that's a lawyer moving to the judiciary? If that is not available, and this speaker has been told that when the judges were appointed by their colleagues in the courts, they did not give their opinion on any candidate who should come, so I wonder who is asking the presidents of the courts. Do the presidents of the court set up local self-government committees, where DOS parties agree who will be. That's not good. It's not good to set people up, and I don't doubt their professional qualities, but it's true that some people who propose for the presidents of courts have studied for eight, nine years, and some of them have an average below 6.5. I think that's why colleagues from the court, or bodies and organisations in the Chamber of Commerce, should give their opinion, whether this and that man, who is to come to that place, corresponds to professional, human and moral qualities. As for the names of the people who are proposed, I really can't talk about them, because in Topliæ County it was done at one of the previous sessions. It's this legal procedure, that's the opinion of my colleagues, the court, the people that this man has to work with, the people who know the law, it can be appropriate to define myself for or against. If that's how it works with people in the profession, if the Justice and Administration Committee solves people's professions, judges, public prosecutors, people of calling, reputation and honesty, I really wonder what will happen to the resolution of other functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11931	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, followed by MP Borisvoje Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11932	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to start by saying my disagreement, since the chairman of the Justice Committee does not respect us MPs and this assembly, as well as the proposals he proposed here, neither was he here yesterday nor was he present today, there is no debate on this most important issue. Maybe this second function in Telecom is more important, but I think the obligations at this extraordinary session are also taking some responsibility. Secondly, I would like to join all MPs who have raised their disagreement over the calls of this 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at which, of the four points, we have been discussing for the third day the issues that could have been found at the regular session of the Assembly, given that it begins on October 1st, and that these materials are delivered here or from the period of the end of June or from mid-July. Proposals for decisions on the termination of functions, resolution and selection of judicial functions have been delivered, I have already noted, in late June, in mid-July. There is also something in September, so after two months you couldn't wait for the start of a regular session, which I repeat twice, and also agree to the proposals for the election of the most responsible judicial functions in our country. What this point means, the reorganisation of the judiciary, where it is already, and we have received material, one of the DOS members proposed a complete reorganisation of the judiciary and the judiciary. Couldn't first and foremost discuss the new public prosecutor's law, based on a new law to provide for a procedure, based on which a public prosecutor will also be elected legally. You are legalists, legally by law, as this assembly also adopts, not that at this point we do not know who proposed and how he proposed public prosecutors throughout Serbia. Considering that at least in Valjev, which I didn't understand in the case of the district attorney's office, there are two proposals, and I don't know what proposal is important, given that two people appear. One proposal was withdrawn, which he proposed and agreed to by the President of the Municipal Court, where the judge was employed. The President of the Municipal Court has been resolved at one of the previous sessions, so we now respect the opinion of the one you resolved at the previous session. Does that man deserve to perform that function that way? Which is why the haste, when at the end of the year, by some draft law, system law on justice, will not only be the bearers of first court functions, but all the employees of the judiciary will be elected through a public competition. Probably one of the DOS parties wants to improve his personnel. We know, all those who promised public functions, who promised directorial chairs in the previous period, that these parties went very badly, from the previous experience I speak, of the previous coalition. However, that I do not elaborate these questions and reasons further here, since the people will understand its real reasons for calling and maintaining, although there are far more significant issues related to the country's fate and its citizens. This item of the agenda represents a continuation of rematchism, political decomposition and a kind of pressure and influence on the judiciary and does not contribute to judicial independence at all. I just have to say, for the presidents of the county court, the presidents of the court, the president of the municipal court, the district attorney, all people are proposed in these solutions that are employed in these bodies. For the President of the Court of Commerce, a judge of the Court of Commerce has been proposed. Judges and public prosecutors in the previous assembly, you know who suggested it. Which means either the previous government had an independent judiciary and proposed people for judicial functions and judges who were really high-quality, who deserved it; or this new government at this point denies what it stands for. To continue and what, at least in Valjev and Kolubar County, we proposed and ran one such policy. The incorrect reasons of the Resava School of Reasons are also devastating, and numerous and procedural and fundamental failures in the process of discharging the president of the courts, which are needed by this assembly and MPs. The position of the reasoning I quote again and last time, I quoted it as saying, "The analysis of the work of the courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has led to data on the great unscheduledness of their work, the large number of unfinished cases, as well as the distribution of cases under the criteria of past the law and the rules of procedure on raditudes." Since I talked about this nebulogus last time, I was interested in Valjevo and I came to the data that they were incorrect, and I would illustrate on the basis of the report on the work of the Business Court of Valjevo in 2000, which was also delivered to the President of the Business Court of Serbia, and I also think of the Ministry of Justice. Namely, the Commercial Court in Valjevo received 11-623 cases in the previous year, which is 1,384 according to the judge. There were 12,373 items or 1,473 items in the paper. Which means that there were more cases in the work than was received for the reason it was transferred from the previous year 1,284 cases, and as removed, that there were more objects in the work than in previous years and than was received. A total of 11.686 cases have been resolved, i.e. according to Judge 1.391 cases, more than was received in that year by judges. The remaining unresolved at the end of 2000 was only 687 cases, and in 1999 the number was 1.284. Based on this analysis, it can be estimated globally that this court has achieved a full frequency of 0.71 per month inflow, which means that the cases remained unsolved less than the average monthly inflow from the previous year. Lawyers and employees of the judiciary and judges know what this assessment means. If an up-to-date court is considered to be a first-degree court until a three-month inflow, then consider yourself whether it is a major emergency of the Court of First Instance in Valjevo, as it is estimated in this argument, or an extremely up-to-date court. Such an up-to-date state of the court is not only present in 2000, but in the period since it came to the post of President Aca Nikolic, three years ago, and this court president has not yet expired. I also confidently learned that the opinion of the proposed candidate for president of this court was not asked by the Chamber of Commerce in Valjevo, as well as the opinion of the President of the Municipal Court, which was written in "Blica" a few days ago, that the college had not discussed it. Such an opinion has not been delivered to anyone, I would ask the President of the Committee, Mr Hiber, who signed this proposal and this decision, that this opinion be shown to me by the end of this session and publicly apologize to the judges of the Court of Commerce in Valjev, if it is not available. Given that Mr Nikolic is not currently in the four-year term, I have asked myself and found out that this procedure, which is proposed, violates the procedure provided for by the current Law on Courts, which has been brought here by most MPs. Because of all that I have already stated, and especially because of the illegal procedure, the incorrect and false data in the proposed decisions, the very successful work of this court and the Municipal Court, requires the businessmen, the professional public of this region and an extremely high-quality man, I suggest that the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Aca Nikolic, not be relieved of the duties of the President of the Court of Commerce. Another indicative issue, which the Minister of Economy and Privatisation said, i.e. Minister for Privatisation at the Finance Committee's meeting a few days ago, is the question of the new 300 bankruptcy judges, who are due to be provided, whether by the end of the year or early next year. It is likely that with this issue and the work of business courts will be questioned and that these 300 new bankruptcy judges, probably on the basis of the instructions he has already suggested, should implement what is not privatised by privatisation, but that those companies that are unsuccessful and which no one will send to bankruptcy and liquidation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11933	The word has a People's MP, Borisvoje Drakulovic, followed by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11934	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, and for the past point, I spoke from the aspect of Vojvodina, i.e. North Back, and now I'm going to be more specific from the aspect of North-Bad County. I am extremely pleased to speak when my colleague Vujic and counterpart Pal Shandor spoke about the situation in the North-Bed District District District District District Court, when it comes to Tamas Korhec, a man with two citizenships, a man who teaches constitutional law in Segedin, a man who is offered to be president, or one of the members of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and who never wanted to accept it because he said that he also did not recognise Serbia as his country. A man who has never addressed Serbian at any gathering, a man who brings great dissension to this area where Serbs feel threatened by such a relationship and the position of such people. That's the part that's easier to talk about now, that I don't have to be, that I'm a nationalist, that's not slow, but I'm not a chauvinist, but when his countryman says, then it's really something different for everyone. It's just saying how we do it. Here, for example, I have the paper on me, it's very short, I have an opinion on such a case signed by Minister Batic, who says, "According to Article 38. The law on courts for judges, and thus also for the President of the Court, a person owned by SRJ citizenship can be elected. The possession of another state's citizenship, besides Yugoslav, is not considered an obstacle to the choice of judges, or the president of the court." Let's say so, but does it represent if one of the lecturers of constitutional law is in the neighbouring country, then does he know our right or constitutional right of neighbouring Hungary? I think that's the problem, and we should think about it a little bit. I understand that in the part of Serbia, where there are no problems when it comes to multinational environments, that we are a Serb minority and we feel it, and it seems to me that the key is slowly returning, some popular key from some time. The other thing, about Judge Anna Marki-Bin, if I didn't say more and - Laden, who's being set up, I wouldn't say anything about her as a human being because I didn't have anything, except that she didn't really work at all in the judiciary, she was working in the office, a woman who, unfortunately, for the last five years, or four years on sick leave, she was operating on a tumor. That says we'll do her a bad favor if we hire her to be president of the court. I think we're making mistakes and somehow we don't care and we want the best and most capable people in the judiciary. And something I'm going to praise for what I've done, I just have to, I can't help it, there's been a 20-year injustice in court in Backo Topoli. You suggested a man who doesn't belong to any party belongs to himself and to his profession. It's nice to meet you, and I want to welcome that part for a principled reason. That man's name is Lazo or Lazar Petric. I know him personally, but that doesn't mean anything. All I know is that he's just, he's true, he's just, he's just, he's not gonna be affected by anyone, he's gonna be able to buy or order a verdict. I'm more than sure of that, unlike what was before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11935	I ask the MPs to refrain from carrying out the details of the candidate's private life, especially when in no way can I influence the decision of this National Assembly. I think it's extremely inappropriate. It's not ugly, but bringing out details from private life to the public is simply not correct. Please refrain from these things. I can be spoken of by the Deputy Prime Minister of Milosevic, but don't talk about people who aren't here in the O.R. to discuss it this way. The People's Messenger Branko Ruzic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11936	The Honorable President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the election of judicial officials and prosecutors under normal circumstances in society could even have and should have a dignified character. However, the current situation in the judiciary, and yesterday's discussions strengthen my confidence, and I am sure the citizens of Serbia, that this election will only lead to the collapse of the Serbian judiciary. Mr. President, could you turn them down a little bit? We've heard a lot of bad characteristics about the proposed candidates. Among others, a very low average rating from the study, ranging from 6.20 to 6.70. Then, most candidates celebrated a decade of study and then graduated. We haven't received any reasoned information on the professional characteristics of the candidates. Even candidates who have so far failed to perform their duties are proposed. Also, the party dimension is undeniable, as the only criterion, which cannot be qualified as a positive feature of the proposed candidates. We heard yesterday that the professional public was reportedly engaged and consulted in the process of running for judicial functions, but we did not realize that any of these suggestions were accepted. That this is true, they also confirm the letters that we receive as a parliamentary group from the courts' colleges, whether business or individual municipal or county courts, in which they are strongly protested for the way judges choose, since they are not respected procedures, which best speaks of the character of running for judicial office holders. Also, in yesterday's discussion, we heard the fear of one MP about the legal justification of the appointment process v.d. Public prosecutor. If these fears are true, and everything says they are, then you can imagine what that will do, not just on the legal basis of running these 50 prosecutors, since they are proposed by V.D. a public prosecutor whose choice is not founded in our judicial system. Also, what will cause this to happen is to establish a rule of law that the DOS so strongly advocates, but only declaratively. Why do I say "declarative"? Because there are a dozen examples that confirm that there are no letters from the rule of law. The most dramatic example is the fact that on the basis of one anti-constitutional, anti-legislative and anti-legislative decision, in the legal vocabulary - citizen Slobodan Milosevic, and in the political vocabulary - the SPS president, Slobodan Milosevic was kidnapped from the investigative prison and illegally extradited to The Hague tribunal. Also, this confirms the authority of the executive authority over the judicial authority. How to talk about the rule of law, when we had an example of the introduction of a forced administration, or the formation of municipal councils in 21 municipalities, in those municipalities where the Socialists defeated. In this way, the most ruthlessly stolen election will of citizens, and the judiciary has not responded, probably because, under the influence of the DOS, there is no Constitutional Court and thus the constitutional and judicial control of the government of Zoran Djindjic is avoided. Since all this is happening at a time when DOS exercise power, it is clear to all, and above all to the citizens of Serbia, that there is nothing from the rule of law, nor from an independent, independent and professional judiciary. Therefore, I am convinced that today's appointment of judicial holders will not bring a legal state to Serbian citizens and that is why the Socialists will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11937	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11938	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard from the opposition MPs a whole series of attacks that first referred to the procedure for proposing human rights solutions in the judiciary, which was absolutely conditioned only by the legislation that was passed and proposed by the government of Slobodan Milosevic in the previous period. We have found ourselves facing the possibility, that is, being forced to do so under such a law at this time, and the Assembly is a corrective factor that is defined by whether individual solutions, which are proposed, are correct or not correct. In that sense, we can, in a democratic debate, contribute to better quality solutions. As a result, unargumented attacks of the principled type are absolutely out of the question because they cannot be transferred to this government and this assembly. As for the government's criticism, they were headed in two directions. First, it is pointless to accuse the government of this agenda point of anything, because the government is not competent and has no legal possibility of affecting these proposals. For this, the National Assembly is the sole authority. The attacks on the government were moving in two directions: firstly, the government's criticism that it was not effective, that it was slow, that it did not implement rapid reforms. Another thing, that the government is ruling regulations. It has been said that the government has brought some 60 regulations and a few dozen acts. Do you know how many acts the National Assembly has brought over the past few months, as proposed by the Government? Seventeen new laws, 17 amendments and additions to the law and 31 decisions. So, 65 legal acts brought by the Assembly and over 60, as far as I've heard from the opposition MPs, and there's no reason to doubt the accuracy of their claims. So, it's the government that daily proposes the law, daily proposes to amend or supplement the law or to adopt the regulation. Furthermore, there is talk of the government ruling regulations. On the basis of the government's proposal, 65 acts were brought to the National Assembly. Comparations work, in some other parliaments, in most of the parliaments in Europe, the average of the acts taken during the four years of office is 10 to 15. In just the first few months, we brought 65 acts. All charges against the government are entirely false and, I would say, malicious, if it insists on them in addition to the data that is available to everyone. I'm not surprised by the panic in the ranks of the SPS, caused by the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee. This panic is in favour of this proposal being presented at the first session of the Republika Srpska Assembly, in a constitutional session, because it is this panic that we are making the right move in the demonstration of the repressive system of Slobodan Milosevic and Mirjana Markovic. The situation in the judiciary, that's where we all agree, it's very bad, precisely because of the bad personnel solutions, precisely because of the situation we've had in the last 10 years. Anyone who had any alternative to secure any existence outside the judiciary was running like the devil from the cross from the courts and from the prosecution. They also ran because there was political pressure and such politicization that, if you were a judicial intern (and I know it, because before I went to university I was a judicial intern), you had no chance to become a judge or become a deputy public prosecutor, unless you belonged to an SPS or a JUL. It's a notorious truth and it's absolutely true. If that is unclear, you can ask around all courts throughout the Republic of Serbia. I welcome this proposal, although I say it is missing, as much as it is lagged down by the fact that it has been done under the legislation that is bad and that needs to be changed. But that's no reason to reform and change in the judicial system to stop. On the contrary, the basic trend and the basic principle held by the Board of Administration and the judiciary was depolitical and you can see it throughout Serbia and based on previous proposals. The case works, Mrs Budimcevic was elected in Novi Sad as the President of the Municipal Court and Mrs Brkic as the President of the District Court. These are two exceptional professionals, two persons of integrity, two people who are absolutely apolitical. So they don't belong to any political party. When you have 18 political parties, we're being transferred to take on party and you have one proposal, you'll admit it's very difficult to reconcile the interests of 18 political parties. That is why the result is what we got from the Justice Committee -- the vast majority of the proposal for presidents and district prosecutors are people who are not members of political parties, because it is impossible for 18 political parties to propose one of these parties, because it is impossible for them to do so professional associations. At the very least, that is why the MPs of the Republic Assembly are here to make concrete proposals and to make concrete objections. I, as a member of the DOS, will, at the end of the discussion, present a concrete proposal and I will not remain only at the principle discussion on this matter. There's no retribution, and that's perfectly clear. If someone was making retribution, and that's also part of the agenda, that's what the regime of Slobodan Milosevic did, it was the SPS. It is Mr. Slobodan Vučetic, just because he was a member of the Management Board G-17 Plus, he felt very clearly on his skin. Change, resolution, and not because of political party membership, but because of the belonging of an NGO, which at that time proved to be dangerous by the regime. Without retribution, you have examples all over Serbia. What happened to Judge of the Fourth Municipal Court, Mladen Nikolic, who committed irregularities in the proceedings in Senjak (which was owned by the town of Novi Sad) of 350 square meters and 17 acres? The lawyer Slobodan Milosevic, Mr Krgovic, thanks to the irregularities Mr. Mladen Nikolic committed, such a villa and such a salary came from 128 thousand marks. Our estimate is that the city of Novi Sad has lost over two million German marks, at least, without skill, just roughly speaking. What happened to Mrs Zlata Rodic - Knezevic, who, in the case of the murder case, declared Mr Perosevic, accepted that it was a terrorist act. That qualification was also defined by a public prosecutor. She legally has no obligation to accept such a qualification, nor was it correct to accept it, and then refused psychiatric skill over Mr Gutovic, who was the assassin of Bosko Perosevic. This opened the door for the hack to over two thousand members of the resistance movement, in just four months last year, who were arrested, to over 400 opposition parties, who were also arrested during the period, and to more than 100 non-governmental organisations, also arrested during the period. Of these, there were 200 minors who were arrested, and these would be 30 members of the Resistance's national movement, who were also on the wave of such thinking and such persecution of those arrested. And that's abused, what's most uncommon -- the abuse of the death of the only socialist who had an extremely positive rating among the citizens of Vojvodina, a man who was honorable, who was good at running his business and who could be said to have enjoyed the trust of the people of Vojvodina. After that, it was dark, and then some Shokolovsky came, and then some Gorani Matici and some other dark guys came. None of these people are cleared. They're still doing their jobs, and we're talking about payback. What about Mr. Vladic, who was in the election commission in the previous elections, in the election unit in Podrinj, where they came in 25 places and attended the elections of the unformed persons, police officers, and these elections were declared valid, precisely thanks to his campaign. What about dozens of judges responsible for the 1996 election theft? No one, dear gentlemen, has been resolved for political reasons. Everyone's still doing their job. The dramatic impression of this is that we're leaving someone without existence, that someone needs to be president of the court for life, that someone needs to be a public prosecutor for life. All these people remain judges, remain deputy public prosecutors, their existence is not compromised. The story and the commentary over the fact that they will no longer be officials - so only those who think they will be MPs for life and who thought they will rule for life. We, in any case, don't intend to think about it, and it doesn't come to our mind. In any case, the people will not condemn this procedure. On the contrary, the only grudge I fear at this time is that the people will interpret this as a short list, as a delayed reaction, as the hesitant of the ruling parties at this time. In the end, I would have one proposal, which goes in the direction of discussion: we have a common candidate. The Justice and Administration Committee has proposed that Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic be the judge, i.e. the president of the High Court of Commerce in Belgrade. It's an extremely good candidate, in a qualitative sense, I really think we've defined the best possible candidate. In a formal sense, I suggest, since it is the highest judicial instance in the economy, therefore, the Supreme Court is the highest, that at this session of the Assembly we make a decision to have it elected as judge, and at the next session we can make a decision to be the President of the Court, therefore, to show that we are seriously and responsibly going out with these proposals and to show that such a discussion, as it was, is completely unargued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11939	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11940	Fellow MPs, speaking on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. We have heard from fellow MPs some qualifications and, unfortunately, some false claims concerning the SPS and our role in the previous period, related to the selection of judicial holders. We heard, however, and a brief report on the government's normative activity, with the fact that according to the Government's regulation...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11941	Is that a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11943	Then, the replica on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11944	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11945	So what did you wave at the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11946	To distract you. If government work were to be discussed, the issue would probably be at an emergency session, but apparently, by political compromise, the issue has been avoided. As the government does, Serbia's citizens feel it best over their backs, because they know what their standard of living is. Regarding the involvement, or inaction of the government in fact with the judiciary, here, I will quote the man who worked in Serbia's judiciary, who worked in the most important authorities of Serbia's judiciary, and you can see for yourself whether there is evidence of the government's involvement in the work of the judicial authorities, and the Prime Minister of Justice says, "And the minister of justice should not deal with the arrests and prejudicial rulings, statements of evidence against the suspect or accused." About the Socialists: it is a lie that holders of the most responsible functions in the judiciary had to be members of the SAA; so some of them still work today, they were all socialists. And if that were true, some of them wouldn't be doing business today, because you're setting up absolutely those personnel who get support and trust inside DOS. And finally, when you ask about the criteria, when you ask about the quality, you constantly avoid the essence -- if you looked at the materials that were delivered, you could also hear and see what the Socialists were yesterday, and some other fellow MPs, claimed that among the proposed candidates there were 11 who were judges, that a lot of the candidates proposed, over 30, were not from the court they proposed. This can be explicitly determined that the average rating of the proposed candidates for the Presidents of the Courts is 6.71; 6.33; 6.68; 6.66; 6.66. Then, that the average study is seven, eight, nine years, to be so-called. The professional public has not consulted at all. What are you guys talking about? Is that quality? Admit it, say - we have decided, and it will be so, but do not let yourself go looking through us for an explanation for your work, that is, reluctantness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11947	We'll be back at 3:30. [[After break - 16,15 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue the work of the National Assembly. He answered his word, according to the Rules of Procedure, Tomislav Nikolic, a Messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11949	I'm advocating a violation of Article 98(1). Rules of Procedure. I want to explain it. After the shameless campaign that all of you are conducting - that Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are listed in the occupation lists, we have come to the conclusion that children cannot be reviewed unless parents are registered, that Serbs, employees of public enterprises across Serbia, cannot accept the salary unless they bring in a registration certificate, at the same time requesting that only full-time Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are registered, and you are in the campaign saying that we should show how many we are, to show what is ours, and only to show our children. We don't have kids. We just have... (President: You should have explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure, not talked about...). I'm waiting for you to talk, because before me, an MP of the DOS spoke about the effects of the government, about how much she did, how many decisions she made, how many sessions were held here. You didn't feel at all invited to warn him and tell him what was on the agenda. Here, in the first minute of my presentation, which is not within the agenda, nor within what I have reported, it has occurred to you to remind me. I don't suppose you've arrived in time to open the session, but I'd already have two public notices from your colleague. So, I took the opportunity to tell you what many Serbs at this hour are pressuring and torturing all over Serbia, and that is your attack on their dignity and by the way.... The president's ringing. That reminds you not to throw. )......................................................................................................... I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you are constantly doing, discriminating the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and warning them as soon as you assess that what they are saying is not in line with the agenda. I would ask you to coordinate the arches a little bit, to be equal to anyone who shows up behind this pay phone and who speaks. Either we're all gonna talk about what's holding us back, no matter what's on the agenda, or we're all gonna talk about what's on the agenda. Either we're all going to get warnings or not getting any notices, at least for this time, while there's still traces of democracy and while there's television broadcasts. After that, when you shut down the cameras, you will do what your predecessors have done for so many years to the MPs -- again the Serbian Radical Party. It's so under every authority. It's our destiny.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11950	As long as I get complaints from all MPs on the same subject, I think I'm able to hold some balance. Since I get evenly from all MPs' groups that I am unfair to them, it tells me that I am as fair to everyone. There is a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic, after which Tomislav Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11951	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable National Assembly President, from a time when Zoran Djindjic has absolute power in Serbia, from a time when Nenad Canak has absolute power in another part of Serbia. I will not speak to individual personnel solutions when it comes to the holders of judicial functions, both those who have been replaced and those whom we choose, nor will I say that a bad legal solution, that the bad law on justice is the reason we have such bad personnel solutions. First of all, I'm going to talk about respecting the legal procedure. If the choice of legal function holders had respected legal procedures, we would not have come to the situation that this procedure, as it is now, has committed a violation of a number of rules, both legal and moral. In general, since 5 October 2000, we have in this country the situation that the Constitution and the laws are being massively violated, and that this assembly not only does not respond to this massive phenomenon, but, in my opinion, promotes this phenomenon. I'm going to name a drastic one, in my opinion, a characteristic example. You remember that five to six months ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a Regulation banning imports of oil and oil products, or the government took a monopoly role in this economic activity. At that time, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the country's highest legislative body, the president of the bodies elected by the government, sent an open letter to Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, telling him that he had violated the constitution, that he had violated the law and that he had continued to act in accordance with the law. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and the government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore the executive government, have disobeyed the invitation of the National Assembly president, the president of the highest legislative body. Instead of calling an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, this body elected by the government, rather than demanding the immediate shift of the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole, the president was dissipated after that letter. So we came to the situation that after that gesture of the president in this country we have -- I can say so -- a mass phenomenon of law violations and a real eruption of law violations and legal proceedings. (President: Please move on to the topic we are discussing. ) Mr. President, from a time when in this country the Minister of Agriculture Dragan Vesenov, I am also talking about the legal procedure. Why was there an eruption of violation of the Constitution and the law? At present, we have a situation, honourable MPs, that the work of the courts is being examined politically and that, outside of every procedure of human and God's laws, the presidents of courts, judges and, in general, the holders of judicial functions are being replaced. The Law on Courts is explicit and I will remind you, quote: "The President of the Court may, before the term of office, be replaced by a legal procedure, i.e. when his responsibility for non-fulfilment is established, and even when it is established, the obligation of the Committee on Justice of this House is to obtain the opinion of the court's college on the possible shift and the possible setting of a new man in that place." In Serbia, however, it did not happen this way, in this law established. Here was the first time that Mr Batic wrote a circulatory letter, delivered to the Justice Committee, delivered to all courts of general jurisdiction, to all economic courts, with the exact same explanation, means the exact same text, point, comma and everything else. This argument is, I quote, "The analysis of the work of the courts has led to data on the great lack of awareness of work, the large number of unfinished cases and the distribution of cases by criteria beyond the law." All the courts in this country, where shifts are being made, and the Justice Committee, they got this exact same text. I wish Mr Batic had tried his best, for example. to change the order of words, to be a little imaginative, to say - in that court, to use some statistics, so it wasn't done, so it was done, however, in his own defiance, he was absolutely in one circulatory letter, hundreds of honest and honest people accused that they were not good, that they were not doing their job honestly, without any concrete evidence. These people have been discredited in their midst and done so by the minister of justice. I heard here earlier that there were also two MPs of the ruling political option here saying that it was still not correct to talk about people we choose for judicial functions and I could agree with them. It is not correct to present some dirty laundry about these people, etc., and imagine how hundreds of people feel without measure, without any criteria about their ability to do this job, when this letter is said to them - you absolutely did not do it honestly and honestly. So, double arches again, double criteria. How did this continue to work in the country of Serbia? Your local ideological commissions, your DOS commissions then give a new candidate. First, this letter made a cut, and then your local commissions gave a new candidate, and so, I say responsibly, that they first join him into one of the DOS parties and then send this proposal here to the Justice Committee. The committee is apologising, as your proposal comes to us now, the parliamentary majority is apologising it, and we finally got an independent and independent judiciary after 50, 60 years. It's a methodology, so we got an independent and independent judiciary. I publicly invite the President, if he is here, of the Committee on Justice or at least one of the representatives of the Committee on Justice to show us from this speaker the opinion of the College of Justice, e.g. for the presidents of economic courts. To come out here and say, "Here, I have one opinion of the college of a commercial court in the country." It was the legal obligation of the Justice Committee to obtain. Show it, you don't have it, and that means, as soon as you don't have it and you can't show it, so if we stick to the law, these people can't be elected president of the country's economic courts. There's a special story of your ideological commission on the ground, especially in the province. You should think of yourself as more people in Serbia's judiciary, who are these people who have made proposals, what is the qualification structure of these people who have tabled proposals to the Justice Committee. Who's gonna be able to do some high-level judicial work tomorrow if they even think a little bit about who's going to be assessing his work tomorrow? What kind of miles do your ideological commission come from? In the long run, be sure, it will leave lasting negative consequences in the judiciary. If, gentlemen, she had respected the legal procedure she would certainly not have come into the situation, I am speaking to the members of the Justice Committee, if 10 and 15 days ago you had made a proposal to 30 legal holders, and then two days ago you withdrew that own proposal. I don't know if you've done this for the first time under political pressure or if you've done it the second time you've retired or whatever you say you've erased here, have you imagined a little bit what you've done to those people? We got these materials and in those environments we found out who the candidates were, and you erased them, so now you're some new ones. Answer us when you did it under political pressure? I believe that the Committee, in particular the Justice Committee, must not be under any political pressure. In the end, I would like to welcome Mr. Pavlovic's brave and honorable gesture yesterday and today's respected Professor Simonovic, who had the courage and honor to challenge the legality and legitimacy of the choice of judicial officials. This feature, however, is not a mass phenomenon in DOS, but it is a very significant and positive sign.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11952	The word has a folk MP Toma Busetic, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11953	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, this topic, the resolution and selection of prosecutors and the president of courts, are not the subject of an extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament, regardless of the state of justice that is worse than ever, but not for reasons the DOS is talking about but for some other reasons, which I will say something later. Serbia's assembly could or had to schedule an extraordinary session to discuss crucial state, economic and social issues. These issues are related to Kosovo and Metohija, to the position of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, to the violent registration of the Serb people, because it is an example for us that all employees of state and public services must register if they think they remain employed in these services and state bodies. Of course, the crucial issue is the growing separatism in Vojvodina, which threatens to federalise Serbia itself, the drastic decline of standards, the rise in crime, and now that this issue, the issue of resolving and asking judges and prosecutors, I would agree at least one of these issues would be included in the agenda. Even the issue of growing crime will not be resolved this way, not only because the judiciary is just one link in the crime-restricting chain, but also because such proposals for the highest judicial functions provide no guarantee that it will be better in this area. On the contrary, I think it'll get worse. It is quite clear that in today's choice of legal holders, the current regime has avoided the basic criteria that used to be applied, for example. the opinion of the College. It's avoided I don't know for what reasons, because the simple opinion of the College of Judges in the District Court, the judge in the municipal court, is a very important and very important parameter. On the other hand, expertise, professionalism, they have nothing, number of cases, number of confirmed verdicts, none of that has anything, these criteria are not represented. All that matters is if one of the parties is a member of the DOS. Today we have a lot of candidates who will be elected, who are lawyers, so they're elected immediately for the presidents of the courts, we have judges who have a year or two of training, and they're going to vote for the presidents of the courts. We have those who are judges in the municipal court, and they will be the president of the district courts, although they have not passed a single act in the jurisdiction of the senior court as the district court. Of course, the question is how will judges in these courts, judges who have great authority and great experience, who have been working for 15, 20 years, and for them, a man from a lower level or a lower rank comes to the court. The judiciary has been completely politicised, and regardless of what has been said here by both the minister and the MPs from the Democratic Party, who speak of the lack of politicisation in the judiciary, I will tell you one of the best examples, an example of what Minister Batic said a week ago in Novi Pazar, and all this has been passed on by a new "Political", whose objectivity I will not doubt now. Minister Batic says "Whatever proposal has arrived for the president of the court, for example in a DOS party, a bunch of charges have been made against the proposed candidate, as if he were a war criminal." Take "Politika" from September 10th, that's what Minister Batic said. Then Batic is not telling the truth, when he told us here about expertise and competence, about independence, about the independence of the judiciary, or "political" this to say she lied. I trust "Politics." If everything was set upside down, the obvious example and the institute v.d. a republican public prosecutor, who does not exist in the public prosecutor's law. The question arises why the republican public prosecutor was not elected in a regular procedure at the Serbian Parliament. What are the reasons? Is the only reason you're the one that he needs to do a certain job now, so if he shows up in that job well, then he'll stay. If he doesn't show up, he won't be elected. A few more important questions are being raised, we know about the presidents of the courts, those who will be resolved or who are resolved, they become judges. Public prosecutors, municipal and district attorneys, lose their jobs, systematization is so envisaged, and only if a man comes from the district attorney's office. I don't think that's safe either, that he's out of a job, too. Somebody deny me if I'm wrong. I even have information, threatening them not to be lawyers, or that it's going to be a hard job, that it's going to be very hard and it's going to be the right thing to do. That the whole procedure is unserious and unfounded and that there are no basic criteria, the best things tell us are the proposals that were made at one point, and behind that are withdrawn. What does that mean? Today I simply don't know who the candidates are, who are the candidates, who have been withdrawn and, on the other hand, there is another information that the proposed candidates have not given consent to their elections. All in all, and after these shifts, resolutions, the situation in the judiciary will be even worse because the election did not take care of the quality, the ability, the success of the candidates, but rather the basic criterion, as I said at the beginning, was party membership. Minister Batic told us that salaries in the judiciary have increased by 160%, that means nothing, as the prices of the most basic foods have increased 300%. So a judge with 150 marks a year ago is hardly able to buy goods with a salary of 400 marks. It's one of the naked truths, and it doesn't take much to get paid in the judiciary right now. There's also talk of judicial reform. What does judicial reform mean? Just on shifts. However, I am not surprised that this is how judges are reached, when ambassadors are also elected to the DOS presidency. Never the SPS's main board, nor the executive board discussed or spoke about ambassadors. The ambassadors' decisions were made in the government of the federal state The president of the state and the minister. [[growls]] Now you're setting up ambassadors at the DOS presidency, and then we pass like St. I object, and now I see that there are candidates and some journalists. I guess they were good, they were obedient, so they'd be ambassadors. (President: Please don't throw away. ) This is not, of course, the finale of pressure, but it has certainly been final since October 5th, it has been a long time since the stories of all judges being removed, that they will be out of work. Now, although it is the opposite of both the Constitution and the law, for a moment it seems to have given up on all of it, but more and more talk about various judicial associations, of course, which are by the authority, that all judges will be deployed. So, there's an institute in place to relocate judges who will be executed. What does that mean? The judge will remain a judge, but the judge from Zrenjanin is going to Bor, the judge from Kickinda is going to Parachin, and that is a big sign of the question how they can thus perform their function. And, I see I only have one minute left, please there's been a lot of talk here about Slobodan Vučetić, so some big push, so I'm sorry why Slobodan Vučetić was relieved. I don't know, all these 10 months you've been talking about the worst of the past system, unrelated to the last ten years, about the last 60 years. Slobodan Vučetic was a senior official of the Union of Communists. Slobodan Vučetic was a key man in the public debate, in the adoption of constitutional amendments and the 1990 Constitution, the creator of the constitution. Slobodan Vučetic was an SPS candidate in the 1990 elections and one of the few who lost the elections. Then we had 194 or 192 MPs, and he lost. It's a real paradox. (President: Time. ) I suppose he was dissatisfied with his function, he got to be judge of the Constitutional Court, and he later turned against the SPS and, please, what he was resolved for was because he became a member of this phantom organisation G-17 plus, and you know either a good part of Serbia's citizens knows what G-17 plus is. From all this, the SPS will not support these proposals made by the proposer for the highest functions in the area of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11954	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and then by MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11955	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, Mr Dragor Hiber says the Committee has worked all summer, with the aim of proposing quality candidates and ensuring the widest support of MPs in the National Assembly and the professional public. Perhaps Mr Hiber worked on another board of directors, say on the board of directors of Telecom, because the results of that committee are seen, and he is the president there, given that impulse prices have been changed several times over the year. Either he's been doing other jobs on some other boards of directors, but we at the SRS feel that work on the Justice and Management Committee has not been done properly. Mr Hiber tried to tell the National Assembly yesterday that for judges and holders of judicial functions the proposed extra-party personality, the best candidates, and that the parties within the DOS did not influence the proposal of these candidates. Is that right? Yesterday and today, SRS lawmakers have proved that candidates who are prominent members of some parties within the DOS have been proposed on several occasions. But about anything in DOS can be done. The MP can be the assistant minister, the minister's wife can be (please don't throw me) secretary of the Secretariat for legislation, the minister can lawyer during the minister's post, and may also become the president of the municipality under DOS rule, as in Merošin municipality, and it is only enough to move the month before the election to the Democratic Party. Our findings show that there has been a heated dispute within DOS, within the DOS parties, and that, on whose member or candidate will be a judge, a candidate for prosecutor or president of the court. That is why there was a withdrawal of those proposals from July and even those that were handed to us as MPs of the National Assembly on September 12th. The parties did not agree or agree, and then some of these parties thought they were more valid on the political market, on the political stock market, so they asked for a higher quota of judges, a higher quota of prosecutors or the president of courts. Then the confused and the uninformed attacked the yellows, and the yellows attacked the confused and the uninformed, and everyone gossiped and gossiped. There are such solutions - that for the presidents of the courts also those who have never entered their careers in the courtroom. There are also such candidates who have been convicted and this best says that they did not respect the quality, that they were respected party interests, that they had to be answered with gratitude for some moves made by their members, sponsors or activists. Especially interesting are cases where persons with 39 years of training, I think there are two cases, are proposed for the presidents of the courts. It's really perspectives, see, you have to do something for yourself before the end of the working century, even if you want to give them a long life, in 20, 30, or 40 years, and this is where the former president of the court rests. And that's some gratitude. It was heard here by DOS representatives, even of them, so the proposals came from a person who was not authorized to make such proposals. Mr. Hiber tried to deny it, someone believes it, and someone doesn't believe it, and it's still in the dispute. Do you think, then, that the judges, or holders of judicial functions chosen in this way, will enjoy the trust of all citizens to whom they should judge impartially, by law, by conscience and by their best knowledge. Then why is this extraordinary session even scheduled, what was Mr. Hiber doing on the board throughout the summer? This unserious approach has not been recorded so far. I don't think the judges, the holders of the judicial functions, deserve this kind of behavior either by the board or by the ruling majority, or by the Assembly at all. That is why it seems to me that the time has come to change power in Serbia and that the citizens of Serbia will make it clear in Novi Sad on October 5th at the SRS rally. "When the last laughs, the cutest laughs." Finally, without any wish to comment on the quality of the candidate for the President of the District Court in Nis - I ask what qualified Judge Danil Nikolic to be a candidate for the District Court by 12 September, and since 18 September, it is not enough for him to be the President of the District Court, but it is proposed that Mrs Verica Stamenkovic. If you thought she was my cousin, which is why, she's not my cousin and you don't have to suggest her. Otherwise, she has 39 years of work experience, and as we hear from those confused and uninformed, meaning not from the yellow ones, they say it was at the request of Zoran Zivkovic, who banned the Montenegrin from proposing himself as head of the Niš District Court. That's really unserious to me. This is why I've been getting a lot of warnings, it seems really unserious, if someone can be a serious candidate by September 12th, and what is it? I'm asking the board president's answer, and now he's no longer qualified as a serious candidate for the president of the court. Mr. Mihajlov, head of the DSS parliamentary group, says that unfortunately, they have to work under the wrong law, according to the law of some past times, and so is the choice of judges. Why didn't you change the law first, then choose the judges? Why do you use the advantages or advantages of that bad law so that when you choose, you determine who will be the judge. Another example, not entering human resources solutions, an example of the Court of Commerce in Nis. We've heard about the court's performance, and the president of that court is changing. Dragan Zdravkovic, my friend and my friend - should not be changing people who have worked successfully and who have not had any problems in the business so far. And now these friends of mine from the DOS, from Nis, who are a little bit more upset, this place serves as a place to deem themselves among MPs, and you can lie from place as president of the Belgrade City Assembly Executive Board. (Milan Milosavljevic, from the place: I don't pollute with the staff, I say you're lying. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11956	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic, and then Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11957	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that in the time in which we live, and the fact that someone is a member of JUL, it must not automatically be destructive to us. The JUL is a legitimate political organisation and we cannot view the person inside it as less valuable, just because they are members of the JUL, but solely because of their political action. The JUL has nothing similar programmically to the Democratic Party and therefore the JUL officials by their nature cannot be the officials of the Democratic Party. The president of Merošin municipality is a multi-year-old Democrats and I would be inclined to believe that it was just an oversight, which may have arisen as a result of thinking about another kind of transfer, which, for example, made Marija Milosevic a prominent radical. However, I do not think that in this way we are contributing to the quality of this debate and I ask you to respect what I said during the afternoon session, when I explained to the arguments the withdrawal of the application for the District Court in Nis and the Court of Commerce in Nis. Mr. Zivkovic's or his wife's role was none of that. It's people who do their job and don't expect us to support that kind of argument. In the case of the District Court, we are not prepared as the Democratic Party, nor as DOS to support the person who was the President of the Electoral Commission in 1996 and thus directly participated in the electoral theft that you, as radicals, have condemned yourself. I remember your political views very well back then. In the case of the Court of Commerce in Nis, we also refused the same logic to support the proposal because it was the person who was the secretary of the election commission. We still feel a greater debt to the citizens of Nis, who have defended their will for months than to the situation we must admit, after all, that we too are men who make mistakes. The moment we fully looked at the biography of the person who applied to the competition, we simply denied support and I think that's our quality. This two-day debate has also led to some new adjustments and you will be informed of this after this debate has ended in principle, and this is not something that would in itself reduce the value of our efforts to reform the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11958	Mr. Bogdanović, replica, by function mentioned. I can't give you, there are no elements to the replica, based on what?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11959	You didn't mention me, but there's only one president of the City Assembly Executive Board. It's me. The whole time you were talking, I listened carefully to my friends and colleagues from Nis, who said every line you said was a lie. So everything, from the beginning, to the end. Just before, Mr. Jovanovic said that this gentleman, whom you were deliberately defending here, was celebrated in 1996 by printing in a printing press that provided that the SPS and you, along with them, were defeated in those elections. Therefore, there should be a measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11960	You have no right to a replica. The party was mentioned only once, when it was said that Marija Milosevic had become a member of the SRS. There's nothing offensive about it. If it's offensive, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11961	I don't really think about your arguments anymore. They're so snotty and dumb. Both previous speakers spoke about the SRS. If you mention DOS, and has the right to come out Mr. Jovanovic and respond, allow any of them to mention radicals, to have the right to leave the president of a parliamentary group or his deputy. Why are you doing this, Mr. President? It no longer passes in the people. It may have been a month or two, and now you can see who's working. Now the people see no difference between how you conduct the session or how Radoman Bozovic led it. There's no difference. There's just another man behind the pay phone. Here, it is sneerly, indignant, underestimatingly said that, like Marija Milosevic, she could be a member of the SRS. Why not? Is there a citizen you refused when he joined your political party? Do you have a right to your statute? The SRS has a clear statute: one who accepts the statute and the SRS programme, signs the accession, becomes a member. It is said here that Marija Milosevic is a prominent member of the SRS. That's not true. Marija Milosevic may be a celebrity, but is not a prominent member of the SRS. The party's prominent members are: People's and Federal MPs, the presidents of district, municipal and local committees, activists, those who write day and night across Serbia that DOS is the worst. These are our distinguished members. Marija Milosevic sought protection and found it in the SRS. She's threatened by you. You're accusing that girl, and I don't know why. The only criminal charges I heard against her was that she was shot when the bandits took her father away. I would never forgive my sons if they didn't shoot when they came with socks on my head to get me out of my own house. That's all you can say to the SRS. One more thing - it's creating the wrong impression. The SRS has no reason, nor does it in these few days, to protect any judge in Serbia because a member of the SRS or because, for our account, on our behalf, he has done any work that is dirty from the point of view of judicial functions. That's what the predecessor now objected to and said that we were involved in some thefts along with the Socialists. We never stole the election, and we never took part in it. If they were stealing someone, they were stealing Serbian radicals. You've won your rights, your victories in the election with the help of so-called. international communities. You brought all kinds of world emissaries here to win you back. We couldn't accomplish it. When you talk about judges who have wronged the law in any way, never mention Serbian radicals in that context. It's just that we're not here in that story.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11962	Mr. Nikolic, you're in conflict with yourself. You objected to me for disputing your right to a replica, and then you confirmed what I said, that there was nothing offensive to the SRS. I just said you're proud of that membership, not offended. Now you've said it again. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11963	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been listening for two days to criticise the opposition for the solutions proposed by the Justice Committee. Of course, they have the right to criticise those solutions. It's our job to put up with this psychic torture the other day. But what do we do? The people are watching this transmission, and there's no need for any great concern. We just have to do our job. Some of the arguments being presented, the type - lawyers who did not have a day of work in court, and now will be elected judges or presidents. In a normal world, where the democratic order exists for 50 or 100 years, it's something that's quite logical or normal. It's perfectly logical that the position of the judge is something much bigger than a lawyer. That's what people in the judiciary know very well. Simply, in the Western judiciary, people first become lawyers and assistant prosecutors, they work in law offices, and then they get the right to become judges. It's something that's a normal process, say, in the United States or the West. It is true that we may have skipped some things in this case, so, let's say, the proposed lawyers for judges and, at the same time, we choose them as the presidents of the courts. But do we forget which country we lived in until October 5th? We know very well what state we lived in until October 5th. I remind all MPs who were in the pre-election DOS coalition, regardless of what we are now in four parliamentary clubs, that we simply cannot forget October 5th. We know why October 5th happened. Because people from the judiciary, according to various election commissions, have tried to challenge the convincing victory of DoS presidential candidate Mr Vojislav Kustunica over the SPS candidate. So these were the people who stole the election years ago. What now, do we need to keep it quiet and be nice? No, simply, all those people who were holders of judicial functions in Serbia must be removed from those positions, regardless of whether they are honest and honest people. It's fair to say that in front of the people. The people know it, and every day they ask of us. They have to be replaced, because although they did not participate in these shops, they kept silent and allowed it to be done. So nothing is unexpected about this. We don't need much to get upset about it, because the people expect us to do it. We're the culprits for getting into a situation where we're listening to everything now in September of the month. This was supposed to happen in February, March of the month. It was our duty. We're too late for that. It is guilty, and I will say it openly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministry that did not do it in time, but also all of us here, because we have not put enough pressure on the government and on the competent ministry, that we are doing all of this in time, in order to pass a law on courts and judges, on the public prosecutor's office, and to apply a new way of electing judicial officials since, say, January 1, 2002. So, the question is, are we going to get to that term and then, as soon as we adopt it through the required law? This law is bad. We're victims of this law, and that's why I realize that in opposition and have some, call the arguments that criticise it, but I wouldn't look back much on it. I would call on all MPs who do not belong to the opposition to simply declare what the Justice Committee has proposed. On the other hand, I'm having a bit of an exposure to Mr. Pitiæ. Because if we are in favour of the rapid reforms and the reforms we need through, and if there is no dispute, and I believe in Mr. Pajtic's court that there is no dispute, that Mrs. Jelisaveta Vasilic is a good candidate for the President of the Higher Economic Court, I do not see why we should not and now resolve it, as suggested. Simply, if we are in favour of rapid reforms, the High Economic Court is the most important in business courts, and we have to deal with it as quickly as possible, in the same way, simply, because the man who is now running the Higher Commercial Court does not meet the needs of rapid reforms. And if Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic doesn't do her job right, then we'll have a new law that we'll be able to pass and then we'll be able to do all that on time next year. But right now, it's just a brake and a waste of time if we don't bring that solution to this extraordinary session, and that's why I think we should also plead today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11964	There's a word from MP Bojan Pajtic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11965	I took a clear stand for the legal approach, because there was a dispute, because Mrs Vasilic had already been elected in this assembly of the Judges' Assembly, and then she did not agree to be a judge, and after 60 days, by law, she was no longer considered a judge, so for pragmatic reasons I suggested it. It seems to me that changes would be faster if such things were discussed in the competent bodies, not always brought out in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11966	There is a word from MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11967	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, numerous changes and additions to the material delivered by Dragore Hiber to the National Assembly show all the inconclusiveness of the Justice Committee. The question is, what did these people do? They probably had at least a speck of morality, didn't anyone tell them in time that Dosmanli courts already have inscriptions telling Serbian citizens: "You who set foot in our courts, forget justice. The Constitution and the laws of this country are not in force here." He says Justice Minister Vladan Batic: "We are being brought down by the judiciary". As our minister of justice, so is our judiciary. Where will the citizen seek justice if he is not satisfied with the verdict? They'll look for her in the highest instance. If he asks to be accepted by the minister of justice, he'll tell him -- he's not here, he went to Carla del Ponte, they're having an important conversation. If he wants to address the Constitutional Court of Serbia, he will be told that the Constitutional Court does not exist. If he wants to be tried by a professional judge, honorable, honest, professional and not a member of any of the Dosmanian parties, he'll tell him - only whoever's with us can be a judge. The independent judiciary is an unfulfilled DOS promise in the pre-election campaign, the influence of the executive authorities in the judicial system is greater than ever. Judges are more afraid of Nebojsa Covic and Vladan Batic, but the chances of having contributed to a victory over justice. In Smederev, it is proposed, through the will of local dosmania, to the President of the Municipal Court, Milan Klasnja, from DOS. He was an intern in court, an expert associate, and then he went to law school. How many years of standing in court and lawyers and who have defined this result to be proposed for the President of the Smederevo Municipal Court, except for party and political belongings and moral -- political similarities, the activist is the DSS, who advocates an independent judiciary. As a lawyer, he's relatively unknown in Smederev, and something more famous becomes after the coup and the October revolution. In particular, it became active two months ago, when agreements within the DOS coalition began, on its candidacy for the president of the Smederevo Municipal Court. The same day is proposed for the judge, on the same day it is proposed for the President of the Court. It wouldn't be bad if we chose him as the Constitutional Court judge, so that his rise would be lightning. How to find a way out for the judiciary, which should be the foundation of the state -- a new law must be passed on courts that will allow judicial independence, in relation to the executive power. Why do you need morally impotent people? Well, they know your West bosses best undermine the defense efforts of the country they want to destroy. They know very well that a man who loves his country, who has the honor, and the face and dignity, cannot possibly pursue national fighters, fighters for the rescue of the Serb people and the state, and such have no place in the Dosmanli judicial system. It's more important to you than anything you can find a moral cripple who can throw the SRS out of the room. It's important to you that Jacques Shirak and Javier Solana can come to Kostunica's legalist uninterrupted. It's important to you to kidnap people from prison and take Judas's 30 pieces of silver to betray the country. Don't you know that Judas, encumbered by sin, hanged himself? Hurry up, save the Serbia you betrayed, and hang yourselves, for treason will not forgive you either God or men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11968	The word is from the MP James Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11969	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since yesterday my colleague from the SRS, Mr Cvetanovic, presented some of his arguments and facts about this speaker, I have an obligation, since I also come from Leskovec, to tell you my vision of things, because that is what my voters commit me to. I am obliged, among other things, not only to the citizens of Leskovec, but also to the people who are candidates for these most judicial functions, as well as to the proposings themselves. Let me tell you first that the famous letter, which was shown here yesterday, has its author, who signed it, and it's about Mr. Milorad Marjanovic. Why do I mention him by his name? Because it is the former municipal court judge in Leskovac, who, among other things, boasting first and presenting many facts about himself, said he was the first judge to be relieved of the former regime because of his activities in DOS. It is, formally, in his solution, written in an explanation that it is because of the activity in political parties, but the essence of his resolution, as judges of the Municipal Court, is that he has not done his job for years and has been one of the judges who has the lowest percentage of cases solved for years. So a judge who's not fit and isn't competent to judge the people he's talking about right now in his letter. I also have to say that for the reason that he is also here in the signature as a committee of DOS (there is the Secretary of the SO, who is in charge of interpreting the Law on Local Self-Government, and we have received the official interpretation of the Ministry of Local Self-Government), and given that he has moved from one party to another, he has lost his mandate automatically and he has no right to represent himself even as a member of the DOS. These days, it is said publicly in Leskovac that the former minister of justice and current district prosecutor in Leskovac, Toma Ilic, are praised. So far, the president of the district prosecutor's office in Leskovac, Tom Ilic, boasts that he will challenge all our candidates. I wouldn't be surprised, given that Mr. Marjanovic was his full when they worked together at the Municipality court in Leskovac, because he only wrote what his former president thought. Who is this Mr. Tomislav Ilic? I have an obligation, because I've been asked by citizens, among other things, to say a few words about him. It's a man who was outside and above the law and who was setting people up either by party or by family basis. According to the party line, there is evidence for you, municipal court President Milan Stojanovic, who has been in office for ten years, performs the post, although he has official confirmation from competent health institutions that he could not, with such a diagnosis, perform the office of the judge, let alone be at the head of the municipal court. After all, Mr. Cvetanovic brought it out yesterday. I didn't know that information. But to him, as a doctor, I have no reason not to believe. Imagine the man, thanks to Mr. Ilic, for ten years now, at the head of the Municipality court in Leskovec. In addition, while he was a minister of justice, he transferred his children from one university to another. On purpose, I don't want to mention the names of those universities, so I don't offend anyone, that it doesn't turn out to be easier to get a diploma at some universities and universities. As soon as his children finished, he hired one at the Municipal Court, the second in the District Court, where he is still a valid president, although his mandate came out on July 21st, as well as the gentleman, who is the president of the Municipality's court in Leskovic, Milan Stojanovic. I'm saying this because, in some ways, they get at least a moral satisfaction from all the young people who have walked the streets for years, protested against the electoral theft and all the injustices that have been committed, and who have protested most strongly just passing by the so-called House of Justice, that is, by the courts. I want to tell them that their struggle was not in vain, that they were fighting and, hopefully, fought for a more just society in which the criteria would be quite different, in which they would have a better chance of reaching employment. The criteria that we managed, when we supported certain candidates, were indeed criteria behind which all parties in the DOS stood. A colleague, Pajtic, told you earlier that it is not so simple for all parties to agree and support one candidate. Therefore, the arguments had to be very convincing, so that we could all stand behind one candidate. I would like to mention that Mr. Jankovic has been proposed for the President of the Municipal Court in Leskovic. He is a member of the Democratic Party, but it was not a criterion, because he is one judge who has the best results in court. Speaking of party membership, I am taking the opportunity to invite all the people who are party members, who will be elected to those functions to, at least, freeze their party membership to perform their duties uninterruptedly and objectively. It is a recommendation of principled nature for all people in the courts and the prosecution. Mr. Edward Jerin, candidate for the president of the district attorney in Leskovec, is indeed a man for whom you cannot get any bad qualifications in professional circles or in public. It's a confirmation to all those who claim to have been guided exclusively by party membership, when running for certain people for these functions, because in the meantime we found out that the man was a member of the SPS. We didn't ask for his candidacy to withdraw. That wasn't an argument, because all the other arguments were in favour of that man being the president of the district attorney's office. Besides, that man by nationality is Slovenian. That's another proof that we didn't take care of national belongings. As for the mentioned President of the Court of Commerce, who was brought into context with the then mayor, or President of the Assembly, Mr. Zivkovic, although I am not his lawyer, I find it appropriate to say that Mr. Zivkovic was elected to the post on 11 November 2000, and that his brother-in-law was elected to the office of the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Leskovac much earlier. The very fact that we did not run as representatives of the new government for this function speaks enough about the fact that we did not run for any kind of kinship, but we did see that these people were, above all, professional, competent, moral, honorable and so forth. I don't dispute that for the gentleman mentioned, but to keep us from practicing nepotism, we simply took that man off the list. That's the only reason and the only truth. I believe that on the basis of what Mr Cvetanovic said yesterday, a bad picture was taken of the applicants and the proposed candidates. Otherwise, if it were an observation of principled nature, I could respect it, but then Mr. Cvetanovic should explain to us how that one of their assistant sports ministers was a man with a high school of commerce. I have no intention of disdaining a man, because not everyone is capable of finishing colleges and being doctors, engineers, judges and so on, but it seems to me that his function is inconsistencies with his education and his expertise. I hope these were some of the arguments that will change the picture of what was said yesterday for this speaker. This is my seeing things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11970	He has the word Mr. Cvetanović, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Stamenkovic, for calling me several times and allowing me to say a few more things. First, I would like to ask the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, to apologize publicly to me, because he, along with some other people, yesterday said that I was unargumented, without proof, that I was talking about some papers, and your representative of the Democratic Party said he signed those papers that I made yesterday on Councilman Mr. Marjanovic. The fact that he was a member of the Democratic Party in Leskovac before 5 October, and after 5 October was a year, so you replaced him, that is, he moved to the PDS and led a council group of a dozen committee members who moved from the Democratic Party to the PDS is one thing, but he remains a DOS committee member. You were at the Leskovac Municipality Assembly, which was on Monday, and there was Secretary Petar Cvetkovic, a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who tried to take away his parliamentary mandate, which the Ministry of Justice and Mr Batic certainly confirmed, but failed because it was not voted. He's still the DOS's boardman. What I was saying yesterday, I'm confirming today. I would ask that members of the Democratic Party take better care of their staff. The same is happening in Leban, where their chairman of the board was Trojan Stojanovic, who had just introduced forced measures and entered the Lebana municipality building. Now he's the president of the Lebanese Public Communal Enterprise. Believe that 55 people voted in favour of his mistrust, and only two voted in confidence, although Vice-President Zlatanovic, a member of the New Democracy, signed that he should be with those functions, Mr. Troyn Stojanovic, of the Democratic Party, where your chairman of the Committee in Lebanon... (A voice from the O.R.: His last name is Stojanovic.) Well, let's call it Stojanovic. The fact is that behind what I say there are always arguments, unlike those of you who are just throwing away, because you know nothing else. Whenever I went out to talk and whenever Ceda Jovanovic came out after me, it was proven that I was right. The strike committee of the public utility company in Leban continues to strike, 55 workers are against your president, only two are in favour. It's high time you took a little more care of your staff policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11972	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11973	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to remind you of a few of the facts I denied yesterday, and not because I believe the representatives of the opposition do not have the right to criticise, but because I insist on arguments, because that is the only way we will come to a better solution. Mr. Janjic and Mr. Vukic have proposed some arguments that the Justice Committee will certainly take into account when considering everything that is subject to today's agenda, but you did not speak to Cvetanovic in such a way. You were talking about a patient. You were talking about the Leban Democrats, and I am therefore obliged to introduce you to two judicial solutions that have completely been denied what you said. It's not true that the person you mentioned who abused someone's right, so she built a house in an unauthorized place. Namely, that's the case with the president of your party. He built a house in Zemun on a salary he gave himself, but we solved it. As far as the person you mentioned is concerned, something like that is not true, and we have a 1992 court ruling here, which makes something so very clear to be denied. In doing so, I will not engage at all in everything that is a feature of life in your community and which is part of the characteristics of you yourself, because then this congregation would become a place that would not be worthy of me as a MP, but I ask you not to slander one another, because in itself it is something that degrades and one who performs in such a way and those who attend it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11974	I'm only taking a line because it's the president of the Serbian Radical Party, and I advise the predecessor to wait in the hall for Vojislav Seselj to talk about it. All I know is what's true and what's a lie in what you said. Vojislav Seselj bought this house in 1987, at a time when he was a political dissident, lectured around the world, and at no time could he give himself a place on which the house had already been built, so please, when you lie, lie about someone else, do not give it to Vojislav Seselj, everything is known about him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11975	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and then a National MP, Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will all agree, and the sparrows in Serbia know that the situation in the judiciary is difficult and bad, that the courts are unsupervised, slow to decide, that there are also cases of corruption, that there have always been the influence of the executive authority on judges, but that never in the extent that it is now, and we can expect that influence to be greater. We've had opportunities from one DOS MP to hear a message just like this. I ask all the judges, and most of them are safe to do their duty, to pay attention. This is what the MP said - all holders of judicial functions should be removed and that should be said openly. Your Honor, here's what DOS is up to. Otherwise, this agenda item, concerning the appointment of judicial and public prosecutorial functions, shows in real light that it is experiencing an independent judiciary. You're always saying one thing, and you're doing another or you're saying one thing today, and tomorrow the other and the president of the National Assembly have proved it to us these days, and he's ideated everything he's said in the papers. They openly go into conflict with Djindjic, they say crime in the government, and then they come out for a assembly pay phone and say it's not exactly so, because Kostunica has meanwhile capitulated, stepped down and Djindjic has come out as a winner. Where crime is now and where consistency is, here's your call and judge. The adoption of law on courts shall be announced. At the same time, you criticize the existing Law on Courts and don't apply it. You keep breaking it, it's all your fault for the existing law, and you go to the appointments of the president of the courts, both business and general jurisdiction, and public prosecutors. Why didn't you first pass that law on courts that, as far as we've heard, predicts a completely different way of choosing judges and presidents, so that it could be the way you thought it would be. Otherwise, we advocate not only from the executive authority, but also from the legislative authority, the judicial authority is more isolated and the leftovers. Perhaps it would be best for us here in parliament to decide on the judges of the Supreme Court, on the judges of the Constitutional Court, of course, all of this must be regulated by law, by some new law that this parliament will pass, and that some authority within the Supreme Court, based again on the opinion of the greater judge or collective of other courts, decides who would be the judge in which court. So, without an advance opinion on whether a collective to elect a candidate is in the position of the President of the Court, which is not a small function, or not, our Committee decides and submits a proposal to the Assembly. You will all remember that since June we have received proposals from this unfortunate official of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor Nedic, on three occasions proposals for public prosecutorial office holders, and then he pulls them back and says them nicely in his letter - I am withdrawing the proposal of numbers and that, noting that we will send you a new harmonised proposal. I guess agreed on the level of these municipal party committees. Then we get new materials, and in the meantime, the Justice Committee gives us a positive opinion on these proposals that have already been withdrawn. If it's from Dragore Hiber, it's a lot, if it's from him as chairman of the Telecom Management Board, it's okay, if he's from him as chairman of the Justice and Management Committee, it's a lot. All this points to, of course, the fact that you had a fight over the staff and that the DOS political parties weren't satisfied with the quota, so you had to get back together, and here you say there's no influence on the judiciary. Now all these judges, all these presidents of the courts are members of some political parties within the DOS and nevertheless members of the Judges' Society, i.e. That paraduced society he's funding, everybody knows that, the Soros Foundation. Instead of changing the law and in this direction to completely isolate the judicial branch of power, and especially from the executive authority, it's going completely wrong here. I would not individually consider proposals and especially not to defend those who are destined, people and I don't know, but I want to look back here in principle on several proposals, and especially on a proposal to elect the President of the Municipal Court in Obrenovac. It is a certain Ante Boskovic, who at the same time has been elected Judge of the Municipal Court, otherwise a lawyer for 10 years and now immediately in office of the President of the Municipal Court in Obrenovac. As soon as I read something like this, I assumed that this martyr probably took over all the cases of Vladan Batic and now as a lawyer, he probably has his cases in that court where he represents his clients. How it's going to affect the verdict of all these subjects, we can assume. It is impossible that in this Obrenovac, there was not a single judge who expressed that wish in this municipality who met the conditions of being the judge's president, but had to take a certain lawyer, Boskovic, for whom the Obrenovci are writing to me like this - every arrested criminal named Tom Pavlovic, former head of the criminal service, and now he's probably in a lower position, first to take to lawyer Boskovic for a deal, and then bring him to the MUP, where he is soon released. So if he agrees to be his lawyer. That's what the Obrenovci write about him. As for the Municipal Court in Knjaževec, it is also elected Judge of the Municipal Court in Knjaževci Dragisa Cvejic, the secretary of the Mlinpek Society in Književec and is immediately elected president of the court. Here, a nice college of the Municipal Court also informs the President of the Assembly and the President of the Committee on Justice, and says - given the knowledge of the election for the President of the Municipal Court in Književec, without consulting the College of the Municipal Court and the candidate who has never performed a judicial duty until now (see, he was never a judge), the College of the Municipal Court in Književec is expressing a protest. We heard it was in New Market, too. But it doesn't touch you at all, to think about procedural errors, content errors, and to withdraw these proposals and implement everything after the adoption of a new law or after respecting a procedure that is clear in the Law of Courts. Please, it says very nicely that at the general session of the Supreme Court, for example, it determines the existence of reasons for the termination of the judge's office and the resolution of the judges and informs the National Assembly. We have a situation here that Vladan Batic has called a competition for the seats of the president of the courts, although they have not been emptied. Instead of getting rid of these people first, it doesn't matter for what reason, for the reason that the law itself provides, and then to call a competition, to choose new judges as it should be. Article 29 of the same law states that the president of the court is elected for four years, in the order of the judges, and can be re-elected. So, just out of the line of judges, I can't lawyers, I can't secretaries, I can't have some social enterprises there. You underestimate the people and the function of the judge. On the one hand, you're saying that it's a high state function, it should have this quality, that kind of quality, and then you're collecting people who only morally and politically suit you for such functions. Then you say the judiciary is bad, but that's the rest of the previous regime. You're constantly running a harangus against the SRS, influencing the judiciary, asking you to take away the premises of the SRS. I'm asking you, gentlemen of the DOS, from the Democratic Party, what about your premises on Crown Street, from which you got it, from the DIPOS, from the previous dictatorial regime. Well, they're also in a building that's of particular importance, historical, cultural, why don't you return those rooms, why don't you return them and show them how nice, honest you don't need them. (President: Time. You want to take away something that's legally acquired, paid fairly, and you didn't even pay the dinar for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11977	We have first of all the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Deretic, and then my replica. (Employee Deretic, from the place: To determine the quorum. ) Please determine the quorum. Come on, don't after the warning to be, either outside or cards inside, according to the Rules of Procedure. It is not difficult, respect the Rules of Procedure - either insert the card or exit. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Replica, mine, at the presentation of Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11978	Right on the line, Mr. Dragan the Martian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11979	Very short: it has been said several times in yesterday's and today's session, some of my statements as president of the Assembly or in any capacity or function, which differ from the statements I make today or yesterday. Simply, everything I said about the government of the Republic of Serbia, about its work, the past weeks and months, I am speaking and confirming today. Therefore, one who is unable to understand this can only make me think about whether or not it is necessary to amend the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliaments, to establish a minimum for the IQ, which is necessary for MPs to have, so that they can be candidates. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11980	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Zoran Micovic, and the right to the replica Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11981	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have called on the line, given that the Democratic Party and the alleged usurpation of the premises on Krunska Street have been mentioned. The difference between the premises used by the Democratic Party and the rooms used by the SRS is essential. We pay for these rooms, we get them regular, in accordance with all applicable laws, and the best witness is the unsuccessful litigation that you, not you personally from the SRS, but as part of Slobodan Milosevic's regime, launched in 2000, trying to get us out of there. You've lost those disputes. As for the historical and cultural monument in the Master's building in the center of Zemun, let the court decide on that, I will not engage in that, but I think your arguments are best spoken of by the views you make as criticisms addressed to us. I ask you not to call me a liar, otherwise I will be forced to provide you with valid documentation. This is a solution to the Department of Property and Legal and Housing Affairs of the Zemun Municipality, which on September 3rd 1999, Danica Seselj from Batajnica is given for permanent use, without compensation, salary. This is the solution of the Zemun Municipality's Department of Construction and Communal Affairs, which, at the request of Danica Seselj, approves the investor to perform construction works from the group of high constructions on that salary, obtained without compensation. Not to get into everything that's the subject of this solution right now, but I simply put this out as an argument, because I don't like the public in me to recognize someone who, without argument, criticises their political competition. I believe that all these questions must receive their final answer, but elsewhere, and not at the session of the Republic's parliament, and therefore, in the future, I will only deny the arguments of all that is presented as unargued criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11982	Right on line, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11983	First of all, I suggested that you talk about it when Vojislav Seselj was there and that you should be reminded by the one who runs the session, and you have your right to talk about it, around the house of Seselj, when you caused the replica. You no longer had the right to reply to a replica, but you'll probably have a chance to clear up with Vojislav tomorrow. As for the solutions you mention, I repeat the truth once more. Two truths don't exist. Vojislav Seselj bought a built house 12 years ago. At that house, meanwhile, he performed upgrades and attics, and it had nothing to do with the takeover of salaries. The house is already occupied by a certain salary. Vojislav Seselj... I suppose you admit your mother is a member of the family. What are you talking about? The mother of Vojislav Seselj on that salary you mention did not build a building building and it can be called once a lie. Areas on Krunska Street have served the SRS to resolve the issue of party premises. In the same way that the Democratic Party of that dictatorial regime, through the Dipos company, whose directors are now all in prison, received a 20-year use of the premises in Kronska, in the same way the SRS through the Zemun municipality received the premises, paid upfront use for 30 years. The magistrate, as a protective building, was in a state of decomposition, threatened to collapse, and the Zemuns know that, if only one of them wanted to tell you. The building wasn't used 15 years before, there was no floor in it, the building is now one of the most beautiful in Zemun, what bothers you? Do you really think that one parliamentary political party should not have rooms? Could you possibly want the SRS out of those rooms? We've been leased in France for 10 years, and we'll figure it out somehow. You'll be left behind with a dirty trail of you getting your hands on the authorities and the opposition party right out of the room. Has it ever been done to you since you existed? Since the DOS came to power by all political parties, DOS members, there are premises in all municipalities. DOS still has like DOS rooms. You'll manage, some still don't have any members, what will you do, but whoever collected... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... He's already got an office in the municipalities where you hold the power. We never took part in any kidnapping, no theft, and the Master's building serves the citizens of Zemun, those who have some business with the SRS. (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. ) The building on Krunska Street serves the citizens of Belgrade, those who have some business with the Democratic Party, so what's wrong with it? If we're going to the value of the buildings to go, we're going to go to the value of the location, if we're going to determine which building is more valuable, don't engage, and I guarantee you that the building in Kronska has invaluable value. At the time of Slobodan Milosevic's rule, at a time when Zoran Djindjic negotiated 40 times with him how to develop a political scene in Serbia, you did not mind getting that building from that regime, my dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11984	Mr. Nikolic, for the fifth minute, I'm taking your word, since you've already given two warnings and I'm asking you to leave the pay phone. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11985	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am speaking to you for something I find very serious. (You can hear the throwouts from the hall sent to Alexander Vukic. ) As I recall, this gentleman you do not warn, from the pre-latest order, is not Taliban, is one another, is unable to come out for a pay phone and ever say anything smart or have not yet had a chance to hear him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11986	Mr. Vukiæu, you have reached out to the Rules of Procedure, please tell me which member you advertise and do not insult the other Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11987	According to the Rules of Procedure, you had to calm down those who behave so arrogantly and rudely, not me. It's something very serious here. It's about Article 99. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 99 states that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The first among us, Dragan Marsicanin, in the worst possible way, has abused, if you can say it correctly in language, this pay phone and said something that I think no one has ever said from this pay phone. You know, it never occurred to anyone to turn to their political opponents like that, or anyone else, or even those he has the worst or, if you like, the worst possible opinion. I think that says a lot more about Dragan Marsican, about his anxiety, about his party's policy, but I don't want to talk about it right now. You know, I wouldn't think of it, even though I could talk about something, and it's not man's fault. My IQ, what are you going to do, can't be as high as Mr. Martian, he's a miracle of intelligence, like he can't be a percentage of alcohol in his blood or anything else. I don't want to be a percentage at all. I don't want to measure with him at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11988	Mr. Vukic, since you have violated the member you have advertised yourself, I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11989	It's not strange to me that you give a warning every time you don't like what someone says and says. I asked a lot of people if they knew why you gave me a warning yesterday, if they knew the president of the assembly why he told me this morning, and I didn't say a word of insult, I didn't speak beyond the agenda, and no one knew how to explain it to me. You'll never know to explain it to anyone. One more thing, there's always talk of Vojislav Seselj, he's not here right now. Of all the presidents of the parliamentary groups, of all party leaders, Vojislav Seselj is able, although there are much more internships than all of them, not to mention professional preparation, school preparation if you want, to immediately change the entire property, so let's see who's what and how it is. I am sure and guaranteed, both to you and to the general public of Serbia, that it is convincingly the most honest.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11990	Mr. Wolfie, I'm obliged to give you an explanation that you've actually heard. You've also violated article 99, and you've misused the pay phone. I give my word to Mr Zoran Micovic, and the next one is National MP Mihajlo Jagodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11991	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been waiting 28 minutes for after my first recall and replica to finally return to what we came to this extraordinary session for. In fact, we could have had the whole debate in a very short time, only that we had the good will and the intention of dealing with what the people voted for and why they trusted us and why we are finally here. There is no dilemma that the topic that we are talking about and the problem we are dealing with in Serbia, which is why we were voted by the people, is very important. For these reasons, I know reliably that all summer, and perhaps before that, many responsible people in the municipalities, whether they are DOS members or those people in the profession, have discussed this subject that we are talking about today. With great responsibility, I can tell you that this problem in Serbia is being resolved slowly, although today we are talking about the ability, in this profession of which it is, is extremely weak. I'll remind you of the time when many of us studied, that the fashion of enrolment in law school was and how current. Unfortunately, many good lawyers have fled to lawyers and other areas of business, which have brought them far more as an existence to their lives and their families' lives. But whatever. Today we are here where we are and from what we have in our cities and in our courts we must choose best to play this responsible role and to carry out justice in courts. With great responsibility, I would like to say that in Western Serbia, a great deal of energy has been spent on this problem. Also, with great responsibility, I say to you that good people have been chosen in this responsible place. In particular, in Ariel, we didn't look into the judge's membership card, into the booklet, whose member was and did not need to be a DOS member at all. It's easy to check. It was about both Užice and some other cities around. If, in the meantime, it has been proven that the choice of people that the people authorised to do, if any, has been made, the Committee has withdrawn these people here and removed them from the list. Of course, you'll let there be mistakes. Errors were the result of a serious work that could not be in one quality way or could not be found a quality personality. For these reasons, I'm extremely impressed by the people who go out for a pay phone and talk with the poor thing about someone being replaced. Well, of course he's been replaced because of his bad work. There are people who couldn't be appointed judges in the past. There's a case in Ivanjica -- he couldn't be appointed president of the court because he married a Chetnik family. The second flaw that was sewn on him was that he was seeing Democrats. He wasn't a member of the Democratic Party. But today we haven't reached out to such arguments. We tried, first of all, to make it a human expertise, to be effective in their work, and to be the number of confirmed judgments that, in the event of a complaint, were decided. On that side, I am surprised that very often here at the pay phone of my dear fellow Members of the people, the people whom the people sent, a thousand times mention the word - the people well know, the people have seen well. We have heard this in the last 10 years from the means of information, how the people know who the traitors are, how the people know this, the people know that. The people know, of course they do, and they showed it on October 5th. With full responsibility, I claim this. I was the president of the municipality in the past and what I experienced from the waves of local television, from the waves of all those who attacked us, from the radical waves (from local television), all of it was thrown into the water, because the people know -- they know we've been doing it correctly, to respect their will and to do it according to the law. The three main attributes of managing the government are: lawwork, the public in work and efficiency in this business. We've been trying for now, and it looks like we've done it. Time's right in front of us. It's only been six months since this government. What makes the Ministry of Justice at this point is a desperate attempt to get things in the justice system of justice. Today, with the vote of these proposals, we help them with all our heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11992	I pray to the People's MP who is prone to crying and crying tones, yes, when he has some slander to bring out, and he directs them to me, that he has the courage to guide them when I am in the O.R., so that I may rephrase them. The word is by MP Djuro Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11993	Article 93 has been injured. Please establish a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11994	The MP advertised the lack of quorum. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The word is Mr. Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I realized that Mr. Martian ran from above, listening to what someone said to him. Finally, someone from the DSS has been informed of what's going on in this room. It's not often, but it's good to see that too. I have to notice something about Mr. Martian. It's a man who's the most slandered in the National Assembly, but he's also most embassies. It's a man who in the National Assembly is the most defamation, but most of all he's doing business, that's the man who can't use his microphone for the things he uses regularly, and he should take a lot more care of it. Don't cry so much from a place that's a member, I'll tell you which member, it's about article 99, and he's trying again to offend the MPs. I can use it as an opportunity, so I can say a few words, but I can't be, quite frankly, offended by what he's about to say, but in any case, I just have to remind him of the many defamations he has spoken here, from saying that Vojislav Seselj, or that his doctoral dissertation is something of defence and protection, and, unlike his President Vojislav Kostunica, never wrote a book called "Social Self-Government in Social Action" (coauthor is Ratko Markovic), but it's quite different, and we repeat it many times. And secondly, and what you say, he was not informed, so it shall pass away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11996	Are you talking about the Rules of Procedure or what, Mr. Wolf?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11997	About you, Mr. Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11998	You didn't say you were talking about me, but the Rules of Procedure, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u11999	You violated the Rules of Procedure, Article 99.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12000	Mrs. Jovanovic, don't throw it away, I guess a man knows what he's saying, you don't have to throw it away. Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise that he has been violated?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12001	Please pay attention to your relationship with the MPs. I've already said it, but you can't even hear it, even though I've already quoted article 99 to you in the first minute of my presentation, and the whole hall heard it, but you couldn't hear it. Let the citizens think about why you couldn't hear or remember. And one more thing to tell you, about laughing, crying -- it would be good if I could -- the best and the best feeling would be to cry over the fate of everyone, because of what you're doing, but it doesn't allow me to do it. And as for the fear of something, or someone, as far as you're from the DSS, gather around, come as many of you as there are in this assembly, try all together to attack me in any way, I will be stronger and more capable than all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12002	There's a word from MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12003	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Articles 98 and 99, both in the first and second positions. Namely, the previous speaker injured Article 98 in the first position, and in addition to injuring Article 98’s 1st position, he also injured Article 99’s point of view. I also ask you, Mr. President, to protect us from further abuse of the Rules of Procedure's injury. I don't think there's any point in turning this high house into one theater, tragically, and putting us all on the line. I also ask you to protect us from this abuse of quorum. Are we obliged to count ourselves every 15 minutes for our presence in the O.R.? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12004	Well, I can't tell if I broke the Rules of Procedure during Mr. Vukic's presentation, since I couldn't fully understand what he was saying, so if you're assessing that there was a need to warn him, I can only put it to the Assembly to say so. (Employee Zeljo Huric, from the site: No need. So there's no need. Thank you very much. The People's Messenger, Mihajlo Jagodic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12005	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my discussion on the judiciary with one Latin expression "priming non-nightly". Since lawyers and doctors, to whom esnafu I belong, are somewhere near, perhaps even by interpretations from the knowledge of the Latin language and its use. "Accept non-nights" means "Don't Hurt First", and we're kind of worried about it here, as MPs. Are we going to harm the reputation of the MP in our conduct here in this high house? We need to know that we're somewhere so far away from those people who voted us, but this TV, and in general, the possibility of the media, is approaching our voters. I think we need to look at that and have some consideration for them. Surely all political groups have the right to give some of their vision and some of their comments, anything at all, but it must be in some sense of good taste. In any case, DOS tried and tried to keep its pre-election promise, i.e. to start and work to create a rule of law, and the rule of law is not created overnight, especially after a long period, where it was trapped, or somewhere away. This is why we have a hard and hard work to do - to create a legal state, which will function and will work on the well-being of our people, and surely they are one of the basic pillars, which hold the rule of law and the judiciary, and bearers of public office. Surely we need patience and good intentions for this work. Some may not have a good intention when it comes to something here, and you know, patience is the mother of all wisdom. So we have to be patient and wait slowly for something to come out of this people, which will be the right thing to do. We can't create a legal state overnight. Surely some people are more impatient when they think they can do it in a hurry. I think it'll come if we're on the right track and we're consistent with it. I'm sure that hard work, which we've been doing, we have to endure in one period of time. I'd like to refer here to the sensitive question of the president of the economy courts. We inherited it, the existence of economic courts we inherited from previous legal acts, and they'll probably have to change that, too. There's probably going to be some economic arbitration, and it won't be possible in this form of business courts, but since then, I wouldn't be moving away from the subject. But the economic courts may have a function, and we'll see what kind of, in implementing the Privatisation Act, we'll see how it works, and I'll go back to my district, to Zaječar County, in fact, at the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar, where a precedent was made in some way. If you read the material you received a little more carefully, you will see it says: the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar is elected so far, Mr Branislav Nikodijević. So that's where the precedent was made. A man who's already been head of the Court of Commerce for a period of time continues to work. In other cases, eight judges were proposed, two judges of the municipal court, one lawyer, one city's public defender. There's only one man left here. Maybe it's one continuity. As a native Zajčar, as a local, I want to express some doubt, although there is only one man left. In the implementation of bankruptcy in the previous period, the Commercial Court in Zajecar did not show itself at the height of its task, and neither did the President of the Court of Commerce. The "Timok" slaughterhouse, the "Salas" Agricultural Well, and other social organisations are in bankruptcy, but they haven't been able to get far away from the bad situation they've been in. I'm asking a certain doubt. The decision of the judicial board to choose a man who is already in that position is not the best solution. If we want to change, that's where we have to change. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I've been in the position of an expert, multiple times. I've been a neuropsychiatrist for years. There are wonderful people amongst the people who deal with the judiciary, excellent experts. We must not harm them and their reputation. We can't say that there's nothing wrong with the judiciary. Justice can be better, but it can't be said that it's got everything on its plate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12006	The word has a People's MP Dusan Budishin, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I am very sorry as a member of the Justice Committee that we lost here on the second day without talking about what we should talk about. A lot of qualifications has been said. I believe that, at the very least, the remarks are uninformed, because individuals allowed themselves to talk about matter that they obviously don't know about. I don't mind that. I resent something else. I resent that we wasted our time talking about the Taliban, about the houses, about the passports, and I don't know what else. If we remind ourselves of a finding that we have long said about how much it costs one day to hold the assembly session, then such insecureness simply must not be allowed. I'm not going to attribute this remark to anyone, I'm not going to say that it applies to anyone in particular. He's referring to all of us. Anyway, people came home from work, watched TV, so this pay phone is used as political marketing. We have a serious issue on the agenda: the organisation of the judiciary and the judiciary. The judiciary is what it is. We tried to do something on that plan. We listened very carefully to all the criticism. You've got the material. It was supposed to go from case to case. Be assured that all the examples you have highlighted, supported by evidence, will be reconsidered at the Committee's session. We'll pay great attention to that. We'll get to the bottom of this. Of course, mistakes are possible. Don't look for bad intentions in mistakes. We tried our best. As far as we're going to do it, it's not just up to us. We are not as infallible as those before us, who have never sinned. They simply appointed judges from one place, so it was very easy to raise hands and vote in the congregation. There's another situation here. I'd like to say a few words about the objections addressed to the Committee. First of all, the Committee was said to have worked unseriously. That's not true. Mr. Dragore Hiber is a very high-quality, very responsible and very serious leader of this committee. I said and I'll repeat, mistakes are possible. They're going to happen. You have to bear in mind that we're often tied to the suggestions we get from the field. On the other hand, you cannot object to individual judges being driven. That's just not true. There's a few things to consider. First, we inherited judges from the previous regime who should have retired long ago in view of their age. The law makes it clear how long the judge can work and when he needs to retire. However, if he was like, he remained. We've got 60-year-olds still in their positions. There are criticisms that are fine. If we worked slow, we did. That's one of the criticisms. It's true, gentlemen, the government has been working slow. That's what we always said. I'm saying it right now, from this place. It had to be done faster because the people expected it from us and because we promised it to the people. It's not true that there's a judge being prosecuted. Anyone who says that doesn't know the facts. It's a simple lie. A lot of judges remain in place. Many judges should also remain in their seats, for it is quite certain that our disfigured and unhappy judiciary still has enough professional people who, in very difficult conditions and with humiliating little personal incomes, honorably perform their duty. Judges like that should stay in their seats. Look at the number of judges changing. Look at the total number of judges. Look at the number of people who must, by law, retire. These are indicators that will immediately say that things are in Serbia. And today we have a situation that some of our courts aren't filled. Personal incomes are still humiliating. That's where a little bit of work got done. It just has to be fixed, because we promised. This is what Serbia deserves -- to get a professional, independent judiciary, which will serve its purpose. These are the criteria that the Committee has run in its work, starting with Mr. Hiber, to each of us. To be honest, I have to admit, members of the Committee and of the opposition have given a full share, of course those who participate in the Committee's work, because the Serbian Radical Party is not giving its representatives. We've worked together a lot, and I think we've done a lot. Let me repeat, we will hear all your remarks and react as we must. There's one more thing I have to deal with with regrets. I'm very embarrassed if we ever agree on a candidate, we point it out, we give the material, and then without any valid arguments, we change it. That bothers me, too. It is, of course, about Mrs Vasilic, who was mentioned this February as a candidate for the Higher Commercial Court, that is, the president of that court. At that time, we all agreed, we also managed with the opinion of the Supreme Court of Serbia and some other authoritative lawyers that it was a very good judge, an honest man and one guarantee that they would do their job with honor, honesty and expertise. That's how she is. Whoever does not believe it, and understands it, shall read its judgments, and it shall be made clear to him. It has been driven out of the judiciary in the same way as several other Serbian judiciary feathers. That's why every termination of those lists that we once agreed on on the Committee I don't think is complete and I don't think it leads to anything, because the work of such judges, such as Mrs Vasilić, Mrs Leposava Karamarković, who were so brutally rushed out of court, so returned, guarantees this country what we all want: an independent, fair and professional judiciary. That's the kind of people we should be looking for, not giving them up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12008	The word is made by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and after that, MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12009	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the choice of Judge and Public Prosecutorial Officers, I will only look back in principle, give my opinion, and above all, for three things. The first thing that creates confusion is exactly the opposite of what the recent representative of the Justice Committee has said, and that is that the work of the Justice and Administration Committee, regardless of what Mr. President has stated that they have been doing all summer, has been kind of squeamish, incomplete, and has changed their own individual decisions, have been appointed, resolved, resolved, which I think is a very unserious and very scrupulous work. What was promised was to execute what I personally expected, a reform of the judiciary that was normally announced by the DOS. However, this reform has nothing to do with the fact that they have found a state. This situation continues as the politicisation continues, not the depolitisation of the judiciary. It is said that there are no hickeys and haranga, and there are, we have heard many examples from the MPs that there are also, that there have been these in today's agenda. The choices of the judges, if we look at the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, are contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and we are not talking about the Law on Courts, and I think it was constructive to have that proposal by the MPs who suggested that this item of the agenda be returned to completion, and that the Committee of Justice and Administration review all proposals again and deliver to us something that is finally, which has some version and that they know which judges are appointed and which presidents the judges are appointed. I am convinced and I can bet that none of the MPs, that no member of the Justice Committee knows who's elected. We've got an explanation, and you've got whoever's choosing, who's getting deleted, you're drawing lines, and you're having a need to be seen to know who we're supposed to choose today as a judge, for a public prosecutor, or, worst of all, for the President of the Court. We have heard various comments that various presidents have been elected in the courts and what is particularly, which is a point of view and what is not appropriate to the choice of judges, is that the President of the Court is a man who was never a judge. The third thing that is problematic here is the choice of public prosecutorial functions because the question is whether these proposals are valid, whether they are valid, whether they are valid, because we have various comments that we do not have a republican public prosecutor or that Serbia has two prosecutors. If we look at all the press that came out on September 17th, we will see that there are very big controversy about it, where we have a proposal from some prosecutor, and on the other hand we have a statement from Ivanovic, who says - I am doing my duty. However, there was an excuse here that Mr. Ivanovic was 69 years old. I don't think that can be an excuse and that Mr. Ivanovic could have been replaced a year ago to avoid this situation. Normally, the session was interrupted, so we also got an opinion from the Committee. It's a non-binding thing for me, which can't give us MPs security, because I don't know the ones you choose, or the ones you're replacing, but I can't come to realize on the basis of some opinion that the Justice Committee did the job right, as the Rules of Procedure tells him to do, as the law requires. All of this points to a very bad relationship with the judiciary, regardless of what the judiciary is in a difficult situation, and I think this problem should have been approached more seriously and should have been paid attention, so we don't come to the situation that the Justice Committee is proposing, to appoint certain judges, so then 40 of these proposals itself pulls away, probably due to some pressures. Whether it's DOS or some NGO or some third party, I don't know at all, but it's one playing with people, with personalities, and it's not nice what the Justice and Administration Committee did. And I now appeal to all fellow Members of the People's Parliament that, however, the best solution is to return the complete material to the Justice and Administration Committee, and to have them deliver to us a consolidated text, so that, based on this consolidated text, we can also make final decisions, to appoint these judges and presidents of the courts in certain courts. What particularly irritates me to be against this is that the Law on Courts is not respected, why we haven't been delivered with opinions from the College of Courts. Because it is not represented in the choice of judges and presidents of the court's expertise, efficiency, professionalism, but rather in a very bad way these proposals for the appointment of judicial functions and public prosecutorial functions are delivered. However, this sloppy work is the product of a government that only through pressure, through blackmail acts on its own citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When I say so, I would like to document with two papers from the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which clearly show that these two ministries, as well as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, simply in a one-breathing way have blackmailed all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, as well as Serbs who have moved from Kosovo and Metohija, who are on the Ministry's payroll, who are financed from the budget. It clearly stands here - given that the account and payment of earnings for those persons is done by your service, so about 5,000 Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, it is necessary to ensure that these workers respond and register. I understand that registration is an act in Serbia where tractors, cars, where cattle are registered, property is registered without being registered alive people. What exists in this process is a list and there are elections. It is a matter of goodwill, if we are in favour of these democratic changes, not a matter of pressure and blackmail, as our government of Serbia is doing through the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior and all those who have their departments in Kosovo and Metohija. It is one of the great shame and shame, that people are being blackmailed that they will not receive their own income unless they have confirmed that they have registered in Kosovo and Metohija. It's one scandalous way for me, one way inappropriate in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12010	I warn you to stick to the darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12011	I had to get out of the topic a little bit, Mr. President, because this is a subject that is burning for us Serbs...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12012	You didn't have to, but you wanted to, and thus you broke the Rules of Procedure; therefore I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12013	I told you in advance that you had just violated the Rules of Procedure, because you have proposed proposals outside the Rules of Procedure on appointment and resolution. You can violate the Rules of Procedure when the judicial authorities are elected, so why can't I break the Rules of Procedure and say for a minute about how the Serbian government has been harassing its builders, i.e. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12014	Could you repeat this in connection with a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12015	I can tell you again, because we received a proposal for appointment and resolution, the date is September 18th, and the Rules of Procedure said we should have received a proposal for appointment and for resolutions at least 24 hours before the session. Mr. President, that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, and that's why you just need to read it. I apologize for misusing the pay phone and pointing out that our government is working and harassing the remaining Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as those Serbs in Serbia and blackmailing themselves to register, to get their own income... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and this also applies to Serbia's Elektroprivreda, which is also being blackmailed. You got your first registration certificate, and then you'll get your own personal income. It is a shame for its country, that the Serbian government behaves in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12016	It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to establish the quorum by Article 93, and you have double arches all the time. Miss Natasha Jovanovic was not allowed to go out for a pay phone, although she had a Rules of Procedure and if she had the right to do so. So it is time for you to look at what you do in the congregation and that most of the Messengers are not in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12018	We'll determine the quorum. I did not let Natashi Jovanovic advertise the Rules of Procedure because she was taken from her word and has no right to do so. When you have the right to take your word for it, go ahead and object. Now it's gone. Please confirm the quorum. I figure we have a quorum, so we can keep working. The word has the president of the DSS parliamentary group, followed by MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12019	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Committee on Justice and Administration has done a difficult job, worked all summer and the running process is not as simple and as easy as you imagine, to sit in some politburo and set names and thus get rid of it. This has been much more difficult and complicated and all the objections, especially the opinion of the professional public, have always been taken into account. Especially when selecting the most significant judges and the most significant places in our judiciary. For us in the DSS, the opinion of the professional public means that we respect it, and in most cases, from case to case, and not from chance to opportunity. Why am I saying that it is important to respect the views of the professional public, and why is it important to respect the arrangements and decisions that have already been made? We have a case, now I don't know how clearly and with the intention of the disputed proposal for the President of the Senior Court of Commerce, Mrs Jelisavette Vasilic. This is a proposal set up by the Committee on Justice and Administration, a proposal that has received full support from the professional public and which has existed since February. It is a woman whose entire professional public believes that she could do her job in quality and responsibility, whose expertise and honesty no one has a single grudge. What amazes me, how the objections that they are coming now, that perhaps now for procedural reasons she cannot be elected president of the Great Court of Commerce of Serbia, and especially if it is considered that in a rather tense business variant, an injustice which has been done to a high judge of ours, Mr. Vučetic, will be done and corrected. Why hide now and justify the quasiprocessural variations in this case. Why does what is directly related to reforms in the state, and I believe that we are all not only on words, but also on parts loyal and committed to reforms, that we are committed and committed to judicial reform, and especially in this human part, that we are loyal and committed to bringing people to whom honesty and expertise no one can make any remarks. Why is the observation now being made, at a time when Serbia should go through reforms, and when it is one place, such as the lady should have taken, crucially or one of the more important ones for implementing reforms in Serbia. Do we all honestly care that reforms in Serbia succeed? It is for us from the DSS and we will support Jelisaveta Vasilic's election as president of the Senior Court of Commerce. What is important is that the support enjoyed in this case is the support needed to implement reforms, especially in the area of the economy, because we know what abuses were in the area of economic courts. Some economic courts in Serbia have been mentioned here, and in terms of bankruptcy or liquidation. We are entering the privatisation process, whether it's worth waiting two or three months, and especially when the privatisation process begins at some new sessions, for new arrangements. Why wait any longer? If there is public support and if even opposition parties have no objections to this personnel solution. Who really cares about reforms in Serbia, we will also see this vote. Reforms in the country are not being carried out simply by voting individual laws. Reforms can also be seen through the vote for individual humane solutions. It is necessary to vote for people who can carry out these reforms. We do not need obedient and politically similar personnel, we need professional, independent people, who will contribute to establishing the independence of Serbia's judiciary. We from the DSS want the appointment and election of the president of the Senior Court at this session, so that the court and the case of the Serbian judiciary can work. We are ready for further discussions and arrangements on individual appointments, but simply that appointment must come to this session. All the opposite would lead, at least in this area, to slow down reforms, which I believe is no one's goal, and I believe that citizens know that it is no one's goal, and at least to the citizens, because it is contrary to the obligations they have made in agreement with the citizens. On my part, I appeal to those who are able to influence the rapid reform to do so in this assembly and vote the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12020	The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, followed by the MP Sima Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have never been any more lawyers in the Republic Parliament. There have never been any more MPs in the Republic Parliament who first established their working relationship right here in the Republic Parliament, which should speak of the seriousness of this Parliament's work. That means they should be proud that they're always here, that there's a quorum, that they're doing their job as they're entitled to. Ladies and gentlemen, in this time or in the time behind us, and also today, it seems to me that no profession as a profession of the judicial authorities is so bureaucratized, or a profession that has most abused and abused its position. That's why we worked Serbianly, and when we participated in power to advocate an independent judiciary, then we proposed one of the measures -- an increase in personal income to prevent bribery and corruption. Let's just remember Mr. Djindjic was in his exposé when the government was formed, here in front of us in the Assembly, so he swore his honesty and the honesty of his associates. At that time, he said that the congregation as a legislative body was not only making laws but also controlling those laws and their work. But that's what he said then and never again. Ladies and gentlemen, the more successful the state performs its judicial function, the more adequate the legal order will be the regulator of all political processes and relationships. In order for the legal order to be truly successful and optimal, its standards must also be subject to the state, which thus achieves credibility. By legal order, the state itself restricts and prevents the destructive functioning of the voluntary self-will of the authorities and public authorities. It seeks to bring legal norms and political relations into a comprehensive fund, so that the political process is regulated, but also relatively free. But when norms are inadequate, obsolete or inconclusive, they cannot regulate real political relations, so they threaten the danger of political life becoming chaotic, as it is now present with us in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, the judicial function is one of the most important functions of the state and has a central place in every political system. In the first stages of social development, the judicial function was in the power of the executive-government authorities, but was increasingly self-sufficient as the activity of specific institutions. In order to make the functioning of the legal order as effective as possible and to curb the tendency of red tape, the state introduces significant divisions in the judicial branch. These are courts (regular and special), the public prosecutor's office as a law enforcement body, as a prejudicial body of representation of state interests before courts, lawyers and judicial administration. The courts are formed solely on the principle of legality because they must not be subject to free evaluation and political will by any state authority. The only function of the courts is to apply the laws and thus achieve the judicial function of the state. The judicial authorities must be completely independent of the authorities of the executive authority, while they are dependent on legislation only to the extent that the legislative authority elects and dissuades judges. Only regular courts in the legal sense are made up of permanent judges. Regular courts, within their jurisdiction, primarily resolve civil and criminal disputes. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in his presentation, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic made it very clear that we Serbian radicals do not have any judge, no public prosecutor, no deputy public prosecutor, but we are struggling to make a list of professional and quality people. As far as the judges proposed by Sapac, by local authorities, for the president of the court and the judge of the District Court, they proposed a personality only because he was a longtime member of the Democratic Party, and this personality stems from a single legal family, but has never been a judge before. You withdrew that proposal, but you didn't explain why. Ladies and gentlemen, also in the Vladimirs municipality, you have replaced the President of the Court, who has done her job professionally and in quality so far. You keep pointing out that many judges participated in pre-election theft and that's why you're changing them. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the only sin, I must honestly tell you, if they were actually stealing, believe me, but if they thought that you as traitors would come to power, I think they should have stolen even more. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look back, in the first 100 days of DOS rule, you were just dealing with the past. In the other 100 days, you've been doing business and you've been begging your employers how they're going to help you stay in power. In the third 100 days, you've been fighting among yourselves. What does that really mean? That means, ladies and gentlemen, the first 100 days of your authority's reign, where you've spoken here concisely, and I'm going to read to you because I haven't strayed from the subject and I still have time, it's said like this: "We've promised an honest state. This power, unlike the previous one, does not steal. "You lied. "The government, unlike its predecessors, does not share apartments, export licences and does not give privileges to its ministers."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12022	Please stick to the subject, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12023	Please, who assigned Joseph Kassi to the apartment, says 22 square meters? Ladies and gentlemen, who helped Mr. Cedi Jovanovic import the cavalry that our police have been trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12024	I give you a second warning, please take care of the subject and the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12025	Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak, it says - the rule of law, the fight against crime, and please, this is where Stanko Sobotić called Cane is mentioned. Reform of the judicial authorities, there is Leposava Karamarković, Slobodan Vučetic, etc. And many others, so I don't get a third warning. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask, and believe me, the people and the citizens of Serbia think of us and this assembly as a circus here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12026	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12027	For what? You're talking about abuse of power, tell me which one of you isn't, who's sitting here in the front row, who hasn't abused power, starts with the Prime Minister, vice president, ministers, and finally from the head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, who enjoys all this...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12028	Mr. Zivanovic, I take your word. Please leave the pay phone. The word has a folk MP Sima Radulovic, followed by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12029	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the greatest manipulations of the previous regime has been mirrored in the dissipation of national mythomania. To that end, it's very often called the Dushan Code. Often and inappropriately. However, it is no accident that one of the key parameters of this code is regularly left out which, let me say, in my humble opinion, has universal value in legal science. It's about the next paragraph -- let the judges judge by law, not by fear of the empire. Of course, in a regime where everything was passively going on in fear of his empire, that paragraph was not particularly popular. But the regime has changed, and the Emperor is where he is. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of us, first of all in front of the parlameter majority, is a very difficult and responsible task of decommissioning the entire system. What we're doing today within this agenda point is I'm experiencing as the first step along that path. This is necessary because it is impossible to cross this path towards a developed Europe without an independent, efficient and professional judiciary. I agree with this already stated belief that the real changes in the judiciary will come only with the adoption of a new law on courts and its application. But in the minds of many Serbian citizens, the courts are personified mostly through the personality of the president of the courts. That's why I think it's quite relevant that anything we've started since the court's president's release and appointment. I'm from Nis. Believe me, it's been very difficult for me to respond to a number of objections from my fellow citizens -- why hasn't there been a change in people who are in charge of the justice system yet? This is so logical, if we ask the question, why were the citizens of Nis interested in these changes, if we remember that in 1996 1,000 Nislija, with the names of most of these people, had the word "hospitals". On this occasion, I will not fall into a trap to deal with whether they are guilty or not. It will determine the reformed judiciary. It seems to me, I'm even convinced that such people can't be led by judicial institutions in Nis. The Committee's proposal, relating to functions in the judicial judiciary, is good and I will support this proposal. As for the proposal for legal holders in other courts and prosecutors, it seems to me that the Committee has so far demonstrated its elastic position on the proposal, so that one part of the proposal has already been withdrawn from the procedure. I have every reason to believe that if there are legitimate objections to any of the candidates, there will be a correction to the proposal of the Justice Committee. There was a warning from this pay phone yesterday, even in the form of a dramatic appeal, that due to the adoption of a new law on courts and re-election of judges, which is envisioned by the draft law, there will be general uncertainty in courts, which is already noticeable. I have no intention of reevaluating legal solutions, but I hereby declare that such a solution, in relation to the re-election of all courts, will surely support it. Here's why -- the previous regime, especially in the last two or three years, has filled the courts with judges. That might be okay if it was some logical fulfillment of the judge's orders. However, these judges came from the ranks of legal referents, executives and heads of legal services of failed firms. Now it's really naive, I'd say ironically, I expect us to listen to the commentation over the continuity of the judicial function. Besides, I wouldn't do that any further. It'll all be regulated by the new law on courts. In the end, let me look back on just one more thing that's been potent here. I am, and as a MP and as a lawyer, very pleased with the explanation that the Justice Committee has given about the inconceivables about proposing a prosecutor's office, so I believe that these proposals should also be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12030	National emissary Milos Nesovic came to the floor. The next reported MP is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12031	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my presentation on the resolution and deployment of new people in our judiciary with one statement by Justice Minister Mr. Batic, which the media carried over in half of June this year, in which he points out: "Our judiciary needs reconstruction, more than ever before. I personally did not propose any candidates, but I believe that personal changes, according to the criteria of expertise, will represent a significant contribution to the restoration. However, I also believe and expect from a donor conference, because according to some announcements, it would be an opportunity for our judiciary to get about $10 million. "Of course, I will not talk about the donor conference and the funds that have come to all, including the judiciary, because it has spoken a lot on several occasions by the Republic Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Djindjic. But I'm going to talk about human resources recovery in this important country system, without apostrophe of the name, as an example of catastrophic personnel failures, although I could do so with very reliable arguments. Right away, what has happened in this area in the past 11 months and what is done today is that the state is in big trouble, not to say before the collapse, that the people don't even know who's running the country and who's being tried. The announced law on the judiciary was not passed. Since the promised reform of the judicial system, there is still nothing. She became the mere mass shift of people from judicial and prosecutorial functions. This was done mostly through various threats, and sometimes using media violence. I'm openly asking that the liner and the court's college listen to the court's choice and have their opinion? I said at first I wouldn't mention names, but I'll just look back at the Royal Municipality, the County, the Municipal, and the Commercial Court of the King. Since both the judicial authorities, i.e. judges and prosecutors, blame themselves for being members of the SPS, the SRS or the JUL, I can be responsible for telling you that in the King over 60% of judges and prosecutors do not belong to any party. About 30% of the judges think it belongs to DOS parties, and 10% of the judges probably belong to the SPS and the Radical Party, and most of all to the JUL. Also, I have to tell you that they are royal judges and prosecutors, and you can ask around, traditionally good judges, honest and honest people, who enjoy an extraordinary reputation in the environment in which they live and in the environment where they work. I don't criticise their shift at all, the new power has the right to do so, and if it believes that it should be arranged in the judicial system, as it has regulated in public enterprises, etc., I think it is honorable not to say globally that they are all corrupt, that they have worked for the party, etc., although, of course, there are, not only in the King, but there are certainly people everywhere, but there is one number of people who, all of their being, have invested in the judiciary and have worked in accordance with the law. I also have to say that when we talk about the professional public and the court's colleges, that in the King, neither the District Court, nor the Municipal Court, nor the Court of Commerce, they had any discussions about the proposal for new judges. Of course, I can see that the proposal for the President of the District Court has also been amended, i.e. it has not been changed, but Biljana Nikolic, who I must say that I have heard that it is also a matter of good judgment, I see that it is now taken down, I don't know the reason, probably that there is some reason. From the highest to the lowest functions in the judiciary, I feel like people are going to be simply DOS supporters, which I don't think is good. I also think that in Serbia, because of the full subordination of the judicial executive authority, because of the election of function holders according to the mentioned criteria, there is a typical legal piratery, which is the fact that 11 months are governed by decrees and political decisions. I have to point out from this pay phone that lately in the King's political leaders are very often calling on judges to bring in certain directors of business organizations, which, of course, is done, so after the hearing, we had a few cases that these people were being released, but they certainly are being compromised. I don't think that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12032	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12033	For the sake of the public, I would repeat what I said today, or perhaps I should say in another way -- when there is a vote on this agenda point, no judge, which possibly belongs to the SRS, will be removed. There's no judge in this entire list who's a member of the SRS. So take our discussion for this speaker in principle. We're not defending anyone individually, we're defending the principle. Replace those who do not work, do not replace those who do not belong to your political parties. Don't accuse the judges of stealing the election - we've been robbed of the election. You file criminal charges against them, you complete the trial. It remains an anthem for all judges who have ever been members of election committees to steal elections. That's not true, don't. Even a different vote was cast, different people voted in these election commissions. Everyone has a responsibility. It doesn't hit me personally, but you have to know that that smut of reasoning, which has been applied to everyone who changes, that they were sloppy, undisciplined, that the chaos in their court has left a very bad impression, not to those people who will be replaced, but to their associates. In all courts, people know why you're changing people, why you're replacing them. You change them and you bring them in, because you're just like these before you. It won't be judicial reform. If you wanted reform, you would have passed those laws, which in different ways you suggest. Some are already in congregation procedure. What does it mean, a month there or here, is another judge going to stay in the judiciary for a month, if we could pass a new law on judges, a new law on the prosecution, and so on? That's why I repeat, if it's worth it - the SRS doesn't defend any judge because he's a member of the SRS, because he's been stealing elections for us or because he has in any way granted any privilege to our party. We are merely trying to help the ruling majority to preserve their cheeks by safeguarding the face of honest and honest people. There are a lot of honest and honest people in the judiciary, who may not belong to your political party, but I do know that there is not a single one that belongs to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12034	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12035	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, several months ago, when the same was the appointment and resolution of individual judges, deputy district attorneys and district attorneys, Mr Batic, as justice minister and local self-government, gave a speech on the exclusive depolitisation of courts. He promised that judges and presidents would place exclusively highly moral, highly professional and politically uninterested persons in the seats. That's what was promised and publicly declared several times from this pay phone, as well as from all means of public information. In practice, you're doing something else. A few months ago, in the position of the orcious public prosecutor in Pogorevec, Mr. Mitar of the Baptisms was appointed. It's the same one, the V.D. then. The district attorney, who arrested members of the Resistance, who was beaten by Marko Milosevic. On September 4th or 5th, he proposed to Mirjana Markovic, in front of the district public prosecutor's college in Pozarevec, for a woman of the decade. After October 5th, he presses charges against Mark Milosevic for the attempted murder of those same resistors, and then publicly, in front of journalists, cameras, he signs the "Resistance" approach. When his colleagues asked him - what did he need, he replied - I would never become a district attorney. Mirjana Markovic had no time to reward him. His proposal for a "woman of the Decade" arrived in the Directorate on 5 September. No session has been held yet. It took place on October 5th. But you gentlemen have certainly rewarded him well. So it's not about what you promised, it's about putting obedient people in the seats of all judicial and judicial functions. This was the case when Mr. Mite Krstev selected a deputy public prosecutor, a certain Mr. Pavel Pavlovic from Pozarec. His résumé, when he reads and doesn't pay attention to what he writes, is extraordinary. Born in 1961, the Faculty of Law graduated in Belgrade in 1987, when he was 26 years old, probably studied for five or six years. However, what is hidden in this biography is that it has a total of 12 years of employment, but it does not say how many in the judiciary. He worked on the following jobs: an intern at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec, and since 1990 he has been head of the Legal, Staff and General Affairs Service in the Public Enterprise "Morava" in Pozarevec, and he is still doing these jobs today. Someone who has little knowledge of mathematics will find that he may have worked as an intern for about a year and has not been in the judiciary for more than 11 years. As far as his further biography is concerned, according to the director of the Public Enterprise "Morava" in Pozarevec, he does his professional and quality work. That's right. Mr. Pavle Pavlovic has done only disciplinary actions in his company so far. Otherwise, I don't know if he's authorized or not, but the Elektromoravu before the court has so far represented, to this day, a certain lawyer, Mr Dragan Ivanovic, a member of the Yugoslav United Left and family lawyer, Milosevic, in Pozarevec. So, Mr. Pavle Pavlovic has never entered court one time as the head of the legal department. It is now being placed as deputy district attorney, and in that place it should deal with the most serious crimes, such as robbery, rape, murder, multiple homicides. I don't know how good he was as a student. That doesn't say in his biography. Counting that there is no experience in the judiciary, it is very likely that even real criminals, even for acts for which the death penalty is threatened, can get away with hiring a better lawyer, who certainly has more experience in the business than Pavle Pavlovic. There are indications that he is a member of some DOS political parties. So there's no point in politicizing the courts. You in the judiciary, gentlemen of the DOS, need obedient people. When it comes to Mr. Jugoslav Brankovic, many of you laughed when Mr. Vukic yesterday read the judgment of the Municipal Court in Žabari that your candidate for president of the court and judge beat up the girl. Some of them asked if it was his wife, and they laughed at her. I don't know if it would be funny if someone beat up your wife or daughter. Let me tell you something else. The fact is, this wasn't his wife, but the fact is, he beat his wife in her workplace, in her office, in front of her colleagues. It says here that at the moment of this verdict he was married. For these reasons, however, he is now divorced. That's what I know, what was in her workplace, and what was going on in their house, only members of their family and God know. But it's not just his doing. That gentleman's got a lot of work to do. He has been brought in several times by police for informative talks, due to disturbances in public order and peace and participation in bar fights and cafes, in an alcoholic state. He is currently being prosecuted for the crime of insult and slander. A criminal procedure has been conducted for the unauthorized entry into the apartment and the procedure for its eviction from the apartment number 360-4/96-01 at the Municipality Court in Žabari. In response to the court, Yugoslavia, Ljubisino, Brankovic of Žabara, the trainee of the law enforcement authority is ordered to empty the apartment 10/1 of Prince Milos and so on within 24 hours of receiving this solution. The Executive Department of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia is empowered to, if it does not act on this solution, be forced to move out of the apartment. The forced execution was stored. The police came, the bailiffs came and Mr. Jugoslav did something you'd hardly believe in yourself. In front of the apartment building, he tied up a pit-bul terrier. In a drunken state, armed, he threatened with a terrace of citizens, judicial perpetrators and police. Only at the request of the President of the Court and more of his friends and relatives and acquaintances, did he leave it. Gentlemen, these are your personnel. Mr. Jovanovic, I can tell you that this piece, when it comes to Yugoslavia, is in principle your party's position. He was proposed by a certain Svetlana, not for your organisational structure on the Fabari Municipal Committee, but I think that's where the Secretary of the Municipal Committee is. Otherwise, Mr. Dragore Hiber knew about all this. He was also warned by the president of the court, he was warned here by Mr. Vukic. The question is, how could he go over all this with the Justice Committee? That wouldn't have been weird, if Mr. Dragore Hiber hadn't been into nadrising. In Case number 1959/91-19 at the hearing held on 26 May 1992, it is registered as the pronoun Dragor Hiber... That's funny to you! [[Laughter in the O.R.]] When your pit-bull terriers are in front of your courts, I will, gentlemen, laugh. When your parties are beaten up in courts, I'll laugh. In order for no expert to appear here, doctors of legal science have the right to do business without a judicial examination and to be proposed for judges and presidents of courts. A lawyer without a legal exam can't handle it. The parties can represent them in litigation if they are authorized by the parties before the judge. In this case, it wasn't. The worst thing that can happen is that you take money for it. Mr. Dragore Hiber has charged 5,000 marks for this service. All six judges at the Fabari Municipal Court competed as the president of the District Court in Žabari. There's not a single application. Mr Dragoslav Bojovic, the authority's supervisor, Jugoslav Rankovic, your candidate, and Lalic Milan were proposed. None of the judges of that court, who applied to the Ministry for the position of President of the Court, are in our files. If it's assumed that Mr. Dragore Hiber knew all this, if he was presumed to be a nadir, he would ask what this is now. Mr. Jovanovic, I'll give you the original documentation. You've only had photocopies so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12036	Replica - Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12037	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very serious topic and are very serious objections. It's almost an amazing reference to detail. Believe that the Committee on Justice did not have this information and that, during yesterday’s day, the Committee on Justice discussed the problem pointed out by Mr Vukic, and that, just as some members of the Committee spoke on several occasions, it was indisputable that, after the debate was concluded in principle, the Committee would meet again to reconsider the argument given by the MPs. However, I received a letter from the judge in the Frogs. It is true that this candidate was subject to criminal proceedings and that he was punished by Serbian Radical Party MPs. However, what they forgot to say is that just now the president of the municipal court in the Frogs is a member of the Serbian Radical Party, and that it became primarily because he is the school friend of Mr. Seselj. Nothing discrediting, but with this particular example, they show the extent to which those claims that the party's relationship to the judiciary are presented in a significantly different way. The Justice Committee will take this argument into account, and I think that we as MPs will certainly vote, but in any case, the Court of Justice will get the President-in-Office of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-19-0.u12038	We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, we've got a replica. I'll let you advertise the Rules of Procedure, and you have absolutely no right to reply. The name of the party president is mentioned, and what is the occasion for replication? Vojislav Kostunica is mentioned here every three seconds, so there is no replica. Who do we defend him from? From you? There's no replica. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, advertised. You don't even have the Rules of Procedure, you've been taken from me. We interrupt the session, we resume tomorrow morning. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 147 MPs attend today's session. Please determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Vojislav Jankovic, Radoslav Veselinović, Boris Karaičić, Dusan Golubović, Visnja Nežić, Milena Milošević, Zaharija Trnavčević, Petar Misic, Vladan Jovičić, Srdjan Sikimić, Zoran Angelković, Jovan Todorovic, Neda Arnerić, Radomir Naumov, Istvan Išpanovic, Radic Jokovic, Natasa Milojevic, Dusan Budišin, Vasilija Pavić and Ljubisa Kesic. National Assembly meetings were called on to be attended by the president, vice-presidents, ministers and secretary of the government of the Republic of Serbia as the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation. You have received notice from Social Democracy that National MP Ljubo Slavkovic, elected from the electoral list "Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica", has ceased membership in Social Democracy and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88, paragraph 1 and point 2 and 3. The Law on selecting Members of the People finds the end of the term of office of this MP, on the date of termination of membership in the Social Democracy. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point 1 and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office, before the elected MP Ljubivo Slavkovic, elected from the election list "Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica", ended on the day of his membership in Social Democracy. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION ON FINISHING FUNCTION, DEFINITIONS AND CHOICE OF THE AUTHORITIES OF JUSTICE FUNCTIONS (addition) The Republic has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj. After him, MP Zeljo Huric.
