ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14076	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 156 MPs. Please confirm the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have informed you that the following MPs will be absent: Nada Kolundžija, Vasilija Pavić, Radmilo Miloševic, Milos Lukić, Visnja Nežić, Nenad Lemajić, Slobodan Tomović, Kermeci Karolj, Zoran M. Nikolić, Dejan Mihajlov, Branko Bešević, Jon Cisamaš, Petar Misic, Marijan Rističević, Branislav Pomorički, Zoran Bošković, Dragan Kovacevic, Juhas Atila, Milutin Salesović, Sava Popadić, Marko Djurić, Pal Šandor and Predrag Bajčetic. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move on to the 9th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Economic Chambers (Statificities) We continue to search the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 1. I remind you that Tomislav Nikolic, the applicant for the amendment, participated in the review of the amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 24, against 133, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14077	I will explain my amendment to Article 2 of this Act. The SRS held its position yesterday in the principle debate that we are opposed to such an organisation of chambers of commerce in Serbia, within the framework of administrative, territorial borders. So it starts with the Republic, through autonomous provinces, regions, counties and municipalities. We believe that the space of the Republic of Serbia and the creation of such laws must be unique, as we believe that the market should also be unique throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this respect, both economic operators and entrepreneurs must join together in order to achieve their interests throughout the territory, borderline or otherwise, therefore, at their discretion and assessment. Yesterday, on several occasions, we made arguments in favour of our claim that it would be best to apply the principle of volunteering, not the principle of obligation. Although the proposer himself stated in an explanation, i.e. in addition, experience and examples from some Western European countries, and it is absolutely not seen there, even if you wanted to favour it (and we understand why it is clear here, too, that this law goes in favour of harmonising with the EU and those who, practically, for the overall functioning of our economy and the Republic Government, give you instructions) in these examples is not clearly seen (this is what you have done) that this principle of obligation is applied everywhere. But whatever it is, we need to look at our jobs and look at what our decades-old experience is, above all, business subjects, that in cooperation and in opportunities (as indicated in the member who defines the activity of the chamber - 10), what is all it takes to provide them with a chamber of commerce. Many economic operators, not only in Šumadija but also in the whole of Serbia, have not scolded themselves when it comes to business, regional or municipal, as well as the Chamber of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we believe that this principle of territorial division should not go beyond the administrative boundaries that the proposer has given it here, but, and I'm going to illustrate it to you through several examples, it would be best for them to join in professionally. For example, if they are textiles, which is the branch of our industry that has fallen hard and is indeed in an unspeakable situation -- if it is about protecting their interests in the area of the single market of the entire Republic of Serbia, then it would be best for them to have their own association and their own chamber. What's the point of that? Well, here's the experience from the Federal Assembly, for example. committees dealing with this problem; let's say, when it comes to imports of repromation for the textile industry, for everything they need, there was very little co-operation between the textile industry entities themselves, through chambers. Because you'll agree, these in Vojvodina have one position in the Zlatibor County where this branch of industry is developed by another, and in Shumadia some third, etc. It would be best if they team up professionally, because they know best what their problems are. Also in our country are banks business entities that are members of chambers. It is therefore very important to enable them to have this principle of branch, professional establishment of chambers. For example, if it is a bank they want to work with in a business sense, to be its depositors, such an example may happen that the bank they would like to work with does not exist in the territory of that part of Serbia. For example, there is no Vojvodina in the Shumadi, and in Valjev there is no other one, etc. There is another problem here expressed through the future operation of such imaginary chambers in Kosovo and Metohija, because it was clearly shown after these occupation elections, which were held, fixed, on November 17th, that this government is absolutely uninterested in the sense of what will happen to our economic operators... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... In the hands of Hans Hekerup, and now the Rugs, the occupiers in Kosovo and Metohija. The question arises who can and which chamber is able to represent or protect the interest of Trepce or other mines and economic operators located in the occupied part of our unique space of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14078	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14079	This amendment should be accepted to avoid the trap that you take from the previous system and what is wrong, which seems to help you achieve the goals that the previous regime had. Take the economy into your own hands and then manipulate the economy by favouring individual entities, while some will be released to the mercy of the market and to the competition. If this is how you conceive the chambers of commerce, and you lock them up in regions that don't even agree with the division of Serbia into the districts, you're some cities, you've transferred some of the municipalities from one district to another when it comes to chambers of commerce, not even respecting the Law on Local Self-Government. If you form chambers of commerce in this way, you will soon get local age, escapes, farmers, who will decide everything that happens in the economy and who will help someone to survive, help someone to do their job successfully, and let someone down the water to find their way. Why isn't the textile industry in one chamber, whether it's a textile factory in Novi Pazar, Jagodina or Novi Sad. Why don't you let them have their own chamber in which they'll freely join, have 10 of their own chambers to join freely, without the state's tutorship over the economy. You realize very well that this is a tutorship of businesses and other forms of economic organization, but you won't say that. If you were an opposition, if it were time from a few years ago, you'd be going out for this pay phone and saying these words. And it's my duty to speak the same way when I'm in a position and I'm in opposition, unlike you who think you have some other duty now -- to defend what you attacked a few years ago. You've attacked state interference in the economy, the tutoring, the management of the economy, the decision-making of the chambers of commerce. You know very well which destinies the state authorities are taking to the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce decides on lists, quotas, contingents. The Chamber of Commerce confirms whether there are enough goods in Serbia, whether to be exported, whether the goods are missing, so imports can be imported. A Chamber of Commerce that bonuses who can import. The Chamber of Commerce allows its member to receive a loan from the Development Fund, to buy with the same money tools and machines, which they later sell to state-owned enterprises. And now it's a big and successful businessman, and if it's worth two million dollars, and if it's 10% difference in price, it's $200,000 per transaction. Of course, your goal is to disappear large social enterprises. Come on, let them disappear, but once again I ask you, what about the factories, what about the workers, what about the members of their families? Someone threw me yesterday - to make food. Here, of us 250, to have someone bring us back to the country -- how many of us there are even a cabin in a village where he could survive, not agricultural machines, and not land on which he can make a farm work so that the man can be paid off. Please think again. Some people here were right. This isn't reform. This is only sanctioning, the law of a wild state in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and turning it into a legal state. But a state that has not been legally reached, never by any measure, by any law, can any decision be legal. Once again, please put this enormous energy you are investing in holding a session of the National Assembly into the laws that we need, in the laws that the state and the people expect from you. I'm sure this isn't the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14080	There's a word from MP Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14081	As my friends from the SPS sometimes give me a go-ahead for this pay phone, here, now he has given me a creamworth and Mr Nikolic, pushing for the acceptance of the amendment by Miss Jovanovic, who has the main goal of preventing this kind of organization of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, but to insist on the so-called border organisation. Mr Nikolic says his task today is to tell the truth, that today he stands for what he stood for at the time he participated or exercised power. Well, Mr. Nikolic, why didn't you put your ideas into Serbian border organisation at a time when you participated in power, or exercise power, but now you're suggesting that we do it. By the way, it must be said that this law does not prohibit economic operators, if they have any interest, from being organised on the border in a specialised association. This is fundamentally why this amendment should not be accepted, because the law does not prohibit such a form of organisation, if one economic group has an interest in that. Also, I hope we cleared up yesterday that it is not a mandatory association in Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. Any non-interesting economic operator in Serbia's Chamber of Commerce will say it will not be joined in Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, but also has no right to expect the services the Serbian Chamber of Commerce should do to it. Because that in itself rules out each other. For these reasons, this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14082	Here you go. He's got a line, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14083	It is true that one who is no longer a member of the Chamber of Commerce will no longer be able to count on the services of the Chamber of Commerce. These services of the Chamber of Commerce (Article 11(1) of the first indent) are also certain public powers entrusted to the chambers by law. So the state will mandate exclusively commercial chambers to issue various papers. You're saying now, one who's not a member of the Chamber of Commerce won't be able to get those papers. It'll be papers without which you can't function in the economy. So he has to be a member of just like this. No economic operator can remain outside the Chamber of Commerce. He can't, he won't be able to work. Now, to that cream of yours, let me tell you: when we entered the Government of the Republic of Serbia in March 1998, about 28% of Kosovo and Metohija's territory was under the occupation of terrorists. They stopped trains, cars, hijacked people. That's what you've got enough evidence about now. The government has indeed had more pressing jobs than this to deal with chambers of commerce, in a way to confirm the situation of 1970 and some years. When the government stopped being wary, it became the government of restoration. Be thankful for that, because if we hadn't exercised power in those years, you'd still be swimming across the river, because since we left power and those two bridges in Novi Sad, which you still have to do, you haven't been able to do, even though you have the support of the entire international community. Think well, as for the Serbian Radical Party, and I think a lot of SPS individuals, there is nothing to be ashamed of about the jobs they've been doing so far. I call upon you once again, call upon individuals, accuse, everyone who is guilty, to answer. In general, the SRS, and individually, was proudly in the government and proudly left the government and is waiting quietly for new elections. If you'd been as successful as we were before you, if the bread were four dinars, I wouldn't be waiting quietly for the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14084	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 25, against 117 abstentions, 26 did not vote 15, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Zivica Predojev, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from the People's MP, Zivica Predojev.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14085	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is a bit of a strange situation -- I'm the legislator, and at the same time I'm putting up with the amendment. After the bill was submitted, to the search for people, i.e. economic operators from the Northobanat County, I simply submitted such an amendment, which, in my opinion, is an amendment to the law, not against the law. That is what the Legislative Committee said, which said it was legally possible; so said the parent board of this assembly, who accepted the amendment; so said the promoter, who said that the amendment does not spoil the law. The only thing that bothers me a little is the non-chalant reading, I would say, of this amendment by the government, which has not gone into the essence -- what it really represents, and it's actually a way to make the interest of the economic operators that are organised in the Chamber of Commerce, in fact, as close as possible to themselves, that they are given the opportunity to participate as best they can in the work of the chamber and as best as possible to valorize their interests. I think we need this amendment to accept, that this amendment (as well as Mr. Trajkovic's amendment, which is likely to go beyond this), helps make this chamber law better than the promoter did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14086	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 139 against 32, the two abstentions, were not voted by 11, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Trajkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? He has the word National MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14087	Honored Presidency, Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have submitted this amendment to Article 2, which is a purely technical amendment in which the region of Kraljeva, with several strong industrial centres, practically Kruševac, stands out with the municipalities of Alexandrovac (it is written here by Alexinac, which is a technical error), Bruce, Varvarin, Kruševac, Trstenik and Cicevic, based in Kruševec. It's aimed at decentralisation, and I think this amendment should be accepted. The government has rejected this amendment, although it is not a proposing, and the Committees for Development and Industry have adopted this amendment. That's why I think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14088	Anyone else want a word? There's a word from MP Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14089	I think that this amendment that my colleague made should be accepted, if for no other reason, by the right of the economic operators to commit to the regional organization of the Chamber of Commerce to which they should be joined. By respecting such a right, I think that an absolute amendment is justified and that it should be accepted, especially because also the applicants of the bill and the committees in charge accepted it and said it was legally possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14090	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 133, against 30, two abstentions, were not voted 18, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14091	Dear Members of Parliament, in Article 2. The draft laws on chambers of commerce, among other things, are systematised types of chambers and which cover the areas. I have submitted an amendment to this article, and it consists in the following - that the area of the Sjenica municipality should be included in the regional Chamber of Commerce of Užica, instead of the regional Chamber of Commerce in the Kingdom. In short, I will state the reasons for submitting this amendment. Namely, the Municipality of Sjenica belongs to the Zlatibor County, based in Užica. Education, health care, inspection services and other institutions are also related to Užice. On the other hand, we have a municipal court, a public prosecutor's office, a payment service for Sjenica -- that's all in Novi Pazar; and now the Chamber of Commerce should be tied to the King. I don't think this kind of fragmentation of jurisdiction and connection is good. It is not in the interest of the citizens, nor of the economy, to go to Užice after one job, on the second to Novi Pazar, on the third to the King. The municipality of Sjenica should be incorporated, so it should be connected to one district, either the Zlatibor County, or the Ravka County. I proposed by the amendment that Sjenica joins the regional Chamber of Commerce in Užica, because the last distinctions that were made in this direction were set towards the Zlatibor County. I also wrote in the amendment, and now I use this pay phone to say it -- in principle, if there are other municipalities, it should sort them out and connect them to the same district, and not that there is a fragmentation that is irrational, which makes business and the completion of jobs and citizens, both business and other entities. I think your reasons are justified, which is why the Senate should be linked to the Goldibor County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14092	Mr. Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14093	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment should not be accepted at all. The argument the predecessor called on -- that Sjenica is within the Zlatibor district -- cannot be any argument because it was also done against the will and interest of that people in 1991, as I recall, when Serbia's regionalisation was carried out. I claim, although I'm not exactly from that city, this is against the interest and will of these citizens. After all, there is also a National MP, Sladjan Mijajlović, who is from that municipality, and here I am opening up a space for him to come out and say what is the will and interest of the people of that city. So, once again, I ask the MPs, at least those of the DOS, to think of those of October 5th, not to accept this amendment and to do what is the will and interest of the people of that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14094	First the replica, Mr. Mijalović, and then Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14095	This is the best proof of how bad this law is. This is a clear demonstration of regional patriotism, both from counterparts Petric and from counterpart Huric. No one asked the Sjenica businessmen if it is contrary to the will of the citizens of Sjenica, I think 1991 is less important. The most important thing is that two fellow MPs from Prepolje protect the shadow economy next to me alive. That gives them this law. Under this law, these chambers serve only themselves, and I'd rather not be in any of them. If he has to, then I think it's better in the King. I think those business routes are paved. That's how it doesn't change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14096	Mr. Ivkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14097	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the matter is far more serious than it may seem. We should tell the truth, Sjenica is a mixed national area in which Serbian citizens live, as defined by the Constitution of Serbia, not the peoples. There is only one people in Serbia, and that is the Serbian people. There are national minorities, whose majority as nations have their own countries. If the state organized the districts and arranged that the county of Zlatiborski, based in Užica, belonged to Sjenica, then the state knew what it was doing. The state tied Sjenica alongside the county of Zlatibor, next to Užice - both in terms of social activities and certainly in terms of economic activity. It is logical for the Chamber of Commerce to follow that course, due to a number of administrative obligations and needs. In that sense, it is a proposal, and in particular taking the fact that it speaks of the location of a part of the link between Sjenica and Novi Pazar. It is extremely important that Sjenica remains within the county and, in a regional economic sense, as a regional Chamber of Commerce, related to Užice. If we now bind it to the King, and some of the responsibilities are down by some other functions related to Novi Pazar, then in that Trinity there may be different solutions that will be directly entered into that people in Sjenica, the citizens of Sjenica, and some other possible divisions that this country does not need. That is why the amendment of Master Radojko Petric is also directed. If the state has attached the town to the county of Zlatibor, pleasure, and bound through all state functions in this sense to the Sjenica for Užice, then it is quite logical that the Chamber of Commerce in the regional sense binds the Sjenica to Užice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14098	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in March 1993, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled a proposal for this assembly to go to the referendum and abolish the autonomous provinces. Sadly, we did not have the support of the majority in this congregation at the time, and then we would avoid much of the bad things that were happening to us afterwards. You've seen on the case of Little Sense, how suddenly our whole problem comes out and comes to the surface. Which one of you truly cares about where he's going to be, in what chamber of commerce, Sjenica? You are now expressing your political views. Some fear it's a new division of Serbia, and some of Serbia's new divisions desire it. With this law, you screw us, you break us, you screw us, you cause low passion. It was enough for three MPs to come out and make everything clear to me. Even a young man came out and said, "Beside me alive, they're solving the issues of the Shadow." So now this only man is important to the Shadow, he's going to solve it, and now next to him alive wants someone else. It'll be settled as the Assembly makes arrangements here, but I'm asking you to think carefully. This division now with Kickindo - I didn't want to interfere, it'll turn out that I have something against the economy of Kickinda joining up. I have no objection to the Kragujevac's economy coming together beyond the Jagodina economy, past the King's economy. You want it now, you make it, that division. We already have 15-16 regional chambers of commerce. If someone asked you why, you don't know why. Just because it was. They've been divided into chambers of commerce, so we're going to share them now. If someone were to suggest that New Now businessmen be in a chamber that is in Belgrade, everyone from Novi Sad will jump. Not because it bothers business and business, but politically, because most of the government of Vojvodina is now against you tying them to Belgrade in any way or to the Chamber of Commerce. That's why I resent the way you're tampering with this. If you were to separate school like this, and I suppose you would... Look how kids get into school. What's decisive about where the child, what school will the child be able to go to? You'll see, the lid is still on the pot, but the water inside is boiling. I've been home for two or three days, I've had a chance to watch the Duke's Assembly broadcast. Look at him, my dear MPs, and no one falls. And you who are here like lambs are calm, and there I am looking at you, you're acting like hidduces. Take a good look, you who do most of both in Vojvodina and Serbia, what do you do to us in these divisions. Someone called you the Five-Oktobar party. He made a great call. I'm asking the Five-Oct parties to think twice, to withdraw this bill. If you are already in power, if it is necessary for all of you to be there for the majority of you in the congregation, when you make a proposal, all of you agree with him, so let him come before Skuština. Do not propose that half of the MPs from the government are not agreed to come to the Assembly at all, or that it depends on opposition parties. For one proposal, you are assisted by one opposition party, another by the opposition party. Surely this true opposition party will never help you. We voted with you for the Declaration on Kosovo and Metohija, you deceived the National Assembly. We have ordered every citizen of Serbia and a child in the cradle not to recognise Hekerup's constitution, and you have invited citizens of Serbia, past the will of the National Assembly of Serbia, to the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14100	Mr. Veselinović, the promoter, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14101	The Honorable Presidency, honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the bill of law and the pronoun here has decidently said that Sjesnica belongs to the Chamber of Commerce of the Kings. Here was the amendment where the Shadow was wanted to belong to the Chamber of Commerce. I think it's natural, if we're talking about chambers of commerce, that it belongs to the area where it's more economically dependent and where it works economically. In any case, we've had examples here from Mr. Sjenica and also from the Regional Chamber of Commerce of Kings who think it's good that it's in law, so I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14102	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 106, abstention 6 did not vote 15, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragisa Marinkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14103	The President-in-Office, Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, as next to Article 21, was in my opinion about something called the Bill - the collection of public revenue. So, if it was regulated by the Republic Government to do so, and it's obvious that the Republic Government has given up on it, so it's no longer as proposed in the law itself, I will give up on this amendment and on the amendment to Article 21. It's a Chamber of Commerce organization, it's just that the chambers of commerce between themselves agree on their organization, and I'm going to be a colleague of Stanko, after he mentioned me yesterday in his speech, to say something about the organisation and joint work of all chambers of commerce. There is a great disunity between the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia and the obvious impatience between the people who lead and the chambers of commerce, including regional chambers of commerce, and may God help us that they will agree in the right way. Anyway, know that when you open up the Web sites, you'll know how the chamber works. Those who accept modern modes of work and placement of information at any time have a better website. Otherwise, I give up this amendment and the next amendment to Article 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14104	I find that the motioner has withdrawn the amendment to Member 4 or National MP Dragisa Marinkovic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. A representative of the proposings, the Government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14105	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Article 7 is governed by the relationship between chambers and other bodies and organizations. I asked to delete the member, primarily considering that everything contained in Article 7 was already contained in Articles 5 and 6 that preceded him and for another reason. However, given the whole bill's proposal, I have to say that it's very well technically done, if I'm competent to talk about it, and I think I am. I know for a fact that it wasn't the pronouns who defend it here, it was the experts from the chamber. Obviously, there are both written and professional and well-known legal norms there, so there's not a lot of grudges, but there's been a mistake here. In addition, Article 7 is quite inaccurate and vague. He says, "Serbian Chamber of Commerce Co-operates with the Government of the Republic of Serbia" (and we already have that in Article 5) "and determines its representatives in the organs and in permanent or occasional working bodies, in accordance with specific regulations". It is imprecise in that it does not say which permanent or occasional working bodies. As far as I am aware, if you are referring to the permanent or occasional working bodies of the Government, and we have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government which is provided that the Government can also educate the permanent committees and the occasional working bodies, these are:The Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance, the Committee on Public Service, the Committee on the Legal System and the State Authorities, but is also governed by the Government's decision on who can be a member of the Committee. And it doesn't say that it can be members, president of the Chamber of Commerce or anyone else that the Chamber of Commerce would delegate. If it is thought that members of the chamber may be members of the boards of directors of certain companies, then it is clear that any director who is at the mercy of the current government should be given another seat to the chairman of the board of directors of a well-standing company, if there are such undertakings, or public undertakings, or already working with the Government, since it is obvious that the chamber is in close relationship with the state, i.e. the strong influence of the state on chambers, and that, on the other hand, the state has an obligation to grant such a privilege in return. So, I appeal to the promoters that Article 7 is inaccurate, to some extent completely excessive, because they have nothing to ask for the representatives of the chamber in no government's working body, nor should there be such a provision in the law that would allow chamber representatives to be members of working bodies, perhaps some other state institutions. So it's inaccurate, and you don't tell us exactly what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14106	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14107	And to the careless reader of this bill, it is clear that this Chamber of Commerce should be called a state chamber. It's obvious that you're actually building state chambers with these. And there's no competition here anymore. I remember many failures from other political options that wanted to keep the monopoly. I remember the failure of a party organization when it was said that everything could be done within the Socialist Union. I remember the union failures, when one state union was renamed self-recognizable, and it was dissipated that there would be members in it, and all the employees in the country. But he resisted it, other types of organisation, other trade unions fought for their legality. That's how it's gonna be with these chambers of commerce. They won't last businessmen who don't stay with you on a good list, they won't last without organising themselves past you, and in the end we'll change this law and allow the formation of chambers of commerce to anyone who wants to. You'll see. With this state chamber, you will favor your businessmen, as it has always been. But in the past few years before you, I don't say it in the last few years, but before that, all the companies were social, all the directors were state directors, they were set up by the CK, and then the Chamber of Commerce just decided on different interests, but it was mostly of interest that the company wouldn't fail. Now we have a self-involved but highly developed private sector. Social enterprises were left for mercy and mercy by a message from the minister and a message from the promoter yesterday. This state Chamber of Commerce will deal with privates, those who are in the five-October parties, more those who are not engaged at all, and besides, for a year and a few days they can't work at all, and with various government regulations almost everyone has already failed. With the obvious trend of closing and state banks and private banks that are not willing, it is obvious that you are preparing the ground for monopolies. But in the world they are no longer possible monopolies, so it will not be possible in the Republic of Serbia either, I am convinced of that, so before I repeat, such a monopoly that has been expressed in our country for the past year has not brought about a better life. Perhaps someone would have accepted a monopoly to live in Serbia day by day for a micron better than yesterday. But since you're not living, and the monopoly is scary and the clamps are scary and the shackles are scary, they crack. That's why it would be good for you to accept this amendment. However, I do not insist on a partial acceptance of this or that amendment. The concept of the law, in our understanding, is not good. You will see to it that when the law begins to come true, if you have the support of the majority for its acceptance. But it would be good to prevent the law from being passed, to think again about which part of the company will remain out of focus, out of help and out of state. With this law, the state will transfer part of its competence to the State Chamber and all companies and businesses will depend on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14108	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 25 against 117 abstentions, 23, a total of 183 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Vukosav Tomašević submitted to the 8th Amendment. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 8 of this Law, I propose a different way of regulating membership in the Chamber. Unlike the legislator who treats membership in the chamber as mandatory, I suggest that it be voluntary. In yesterday's debate, Mr. Vlahovic and the proposing representative gave one version of their interpretation -- that this law did not decidently establish the obligation of membership in the chamber. However, I do not think that this was convincing and that by carefully reading and interpreting Article 8 of this Law, we are coming to the conclusion that the obligation of membership is proposed. Also, I don't think we can accept the interpretation that later, with the statute of the chamber, it will regulate the volunteering of membership. In that case, the statute of the chamber would be incompatible with this law, and the other thing, which guarantees that the board of directors of the chamber will bring such a statute that would be voluntaryly regulated in this way by membership in the chamber. This amendment of mine would correct one disagreement between Articles 1 and 8 of this law. There is logical among these two members, and I am convinced of legal contradiction. In fact, Article 1 defines chambers as internal organisations. This article mentions the word "interest" three times. Please, if we define something as an interest, then it is quite logical to let the one whom the interest applies to determine by his own free will and then to articulate it, not to define something as an interest, and then to impose that interest as an obligation on the next member of the law. So let me be the entrepreneur to determine if my interest is to be a member of the chamber. If that's my interest, I'll join the chamber. Don't give me an interesting right in one place, and right after that, the legal obligation that my interests are undermining. The other thing is, if we accept a member of the 8th of this law, we'll be in a conflict between the provisions of this law and the provisions of the labour law, which is before us in this chair. Namely, the Government has accepted the amendment of a group of MPs, amendments to Article 6. It's a bill of law. That member, who will become an integral part of the bill's proposal, and which I suppose the assembly majority here will adopt, determines the union, perfectly normal, as a free association. The member also determines the employers' association as an interesting free association. So there's a membership voluntary. Why, then, the third factor, which makes up the economic miles of a single state, would be found to be a mandatory organisation? If an employer is given the right to choose, to establish his own interests, and then to join there, why not do the same in the case of the Chamber of Commerce. I repeat what I said yesterday: I am convinced that the obligation is only needed by those narrow circles, those narrow economic groups - lobbying and civil servants in the chambers of commerce, because they need that huge base of entrepreneurs as a source of income. Maybe a hundred dinars isn't much of an imposition for anyone, even the smallest entrepreneur, but times a couple of tens of thousands, that's a lot of money, which then the chambers of commerce have. That's why, I'm convinced, and it suggests a variant like this. I call upon you to open up the possibility that membership in the chamber will be voluntary. I'm quite convinced that in the tadvariant and chambers will better function, work more and work, above all, in the interest of their membership. Then, with me, with you, with all the entrepreneurs, people from the chamber will have to come, they'll have to talk to us, see what our interest is, then fight to represent these interests authentically, to attract us to membership and to have our support and membership. (President: Time. For these reasons, I invite you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14110	Mr. Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that this amendment be rejected for the reason that this law is complete in accordance with the laws of developed countries. In any case, I would like to say that in all countries in the surrounding region, such as Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Croatia, they have arranged in a similar manner. So I suggest you refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14112	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 67, against 99, abstentioned 5, did not vote 16, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14113	According to the dates under which the amendments were introduced, about the same time we submitted amendments to the predecessor and myself, which are somewhat similar but not identical. I think the amendment we have submitted is more complete, if it wants to achieve the goal and purpose that the predecessor has explained. I have, by amendment, anticipated attitude 6 which will read clearly: "Membership in the chamber is voluntary". So we could avoid all dilemmas, and I guess there will be a dilemma about whether or not membership in the chamber is mandatory. I knew they'd convince us it wasn't mandatory, and they'd write that it was. I don't think the proposer here needs much to hesitate. If yesterday he told us that membership in the chamber is voluntary, today would be the easiest time for him to accept the amendment. However, I have suggested that Articles 2 and 3 of this article be deleted. This is what we talked about in the debate in principle - that the chamber takes entrepreneurs under its control, they can only be members if they are members of the Association of Entrepreneurs, and that all their acts, their conduct, membership and representation will be decided by the Chamber of Commerce. Then why can't entrepreneurs be directly members of the Chamber of Commerce? Why can't farmers be directly members of the Chamber of Commerce? Why do they have to join in cooperatives first, so cooperatives can be members of the Chamber of Commerce? Yesterday, someone who supports the bill convinced us that in the northern part of Italy, the best business is the companies that have one employee. Okay, the country estates have three, sometimes four, and God forbid they only have two employees. But this property should be a member of the Chamber of Commerce and have the same rights that other chamber entities have. Cooperative is another kind of organization. I can get two or three peasants to export plums to make cooperatives, cooperatives to export plums, and imports fertilizer. If you let it go, the thieves don't take money at a price difference anymore. But why do they have to join other forms of organization to become members of the Chamber of Commerce? If they are members of the Chamber of Commerce, they will be engaged in other business activities. Why do they have to group before to be approved by the chamber congregation to be members of the chamber or I don't know how it's going to be? So delete item 2 and 3, which will automatically mean that everyone can be a member of the Chamber of Commerce and add a position (now 6.) 4. - that membership in the Chamber of Commerce is voluntary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14114	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He's got a message from the motion officer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14115	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment has not been accepted by the government or by the committees, so I believe that the amendment should be rejected for the same reasons as I said before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14116	I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 60, against 96, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Kovacevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does Dragan Kovacevic want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 74, against 78, there were no abstentions, no 30 votes, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14117	During the debate on the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce in particular, it is obvious that it is a smaller group within the group of proposings, but I would say by the number of those who are creators and smaller by number of parties here in the ruling coalition that decides on this, but a very powerful group that will in future co-operate closely with the Government of the Republic of Serbia to decide on profitable economic operators, on whom they will support, who they will not. Of course, it will have an impact on everything that is useful to them. The amendment to Article 9 shall be attached to Article 2 and to the amendment which I have just explained, where, in addition to regional territorial division and division in the provinces, the economic operators which are members of the Chamber of Commerce are defined in Article 9 for which areas. This member must be bound by what those who participated in the discussion said, and above all by Mr Nikolic about Article 8 of the Law. Then we return to the fact that the members of the Chamber of Enterprises and other forms of organization that carry out economic activity, banks and other financial organisations and the Organisation for the Insurance of Assets and Persons, because in Article 9, through their transfer through territory or classification, are said to be economic operators. These are not entrepreneurs and farmers' cooperatives, because this law does not allow them to be directly members of the chamber or to establish their chambers on the principle of their volunteering, not their obligations, to be members through some general associations, through intermediaries. This raises the question of how it is possible for legislators to say that MPs accept such a law that free market economy, the development of private entrepreneurship, etc. (it is only declarative) to influence that the general situation in our country's economy improves, and not to allow entrepreneurs and agricultural cooperatives, or farmers who want to be members of the chamber directly, to be so. Because we have an example when it comes to tourist agencies: almost increasing and more famous tourist agencies are members of the Yugoslav Association of Tourist Agencys, so-called Jut. JUTA is a direct member of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and those who work in the area know that certain benefits, and very large for some better and bigger jobs, certainly enables the Yugoslav Association of Tourist Agencys. The question now arises why some agencies that want to do so, who co-operate in the area of subagent in the whole of Serbia, whether they are from the south or from the north, east or beyond, cannot establish their own Chamber of Commerce, but must do so through intermediaries and get such opportunities for their business. Here comes a classic Brozian term from the darkest communist era. They're cooperative alliances. It's our ancient past. Agricultural cooperatives do not function as they should and do not allow businesses to protect their interests, which Nikolic spoke of earlier. But we already have certain associations, from areas of agriculture, people who have self-organised through associations, let's say, Serbia's Agro-Community or the Association of Fruit Organisations of Serbia. Indeed, their experience is such, I know it reliably, that they have no possibility, nor any benefit, from Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, from the regional, municipal Chamber of Commerce asking for some help to, say, present their products on the foreign market. If they participate in international fair events, such as one of the largest agricultural events of the year, they travel via their agro-community through the Fruit Association where they think they can place their products. So nothing helps them, so why can't they organize themselves and set up a chamber for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14118	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) Do we follow the Rules of Procedure or by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14119	It's a business thing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had to answer and suggest we establish a quorum, because I still don't think it's right to discuss such an important matter before maybe a hundred MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14120	All right, let's find the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14121	I figure we can keep working. If no one appears under the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic, I put the amendments to the vote. For 9, against 108, there were no abstentions, no 35, a total of 152. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. A representative of the promoter, the Government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14122	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, in Article 10. The proposal for a tax law in the 16th indents shall state the activity carried out by the Chamber of Commerce. With my amendment, I suggested adding the following two indents: firstly, that the Chamber of Commerce be awarded, legal and physical persons, awards and other social recognitions, to affirm and encourage creation in the economy. I believe that publicly affirmed and extremely good results and business, especially in innovation and invention, are a significant incentive to further improve work and business in the economy. This type of affirmation is important for both natural persons and businesses. I believe that this is not a primary task, but it is not insignificant, that it should remain as a task that the Chamber is required to monitor the results achieved and that, for the particularly achieved and good results in the economy, awards and other recognitions are given. It should be borne in mind that in the field of culture, art, sport, through award-winning public affirmation, significant results are achieved and thus an incentive for future work is being carried out. Thus, it should be organised to affirm and assign recognitions to the area of economic creation, not only in the fields of art, culture, sport, etc. I was informed in the talks that the promoter did not accept this because he believes that the statute will be covered. It can, in the end, and so it can be solved, but it does not have the same weight as when foreseen by the law, and it has much more weight and it affirms creation if the law provides for it to be done. In the second part of the amendment, I suggested adding a new indent to this same article on 10th, to oblige the Chamber of Commerce to issue confidence in the facts on which the official record is kept. So, all the facts on which he keeps the official record that he is required, at the request of the economy, to issue an appropriate certificate, of proper confidence. This is not covered by the law, except in Article 11, where it says, "It betrays the confidence of its members". It is only one part of the segment, where the credit rating is checked, although it is also done by the Department of Accounting and Payment at the National Bank of Yugoslavia; but it does not mind, if it passes the payment turnover to banks, that this part remains at the Chamber of Commerce and that it carry out the check, to follow, etc. And it further states that it gives confirmation and confidence, i.e. that beliefs have the character of public documents. Nowhere is foreseen to confirm and give assurances to another. Therefore, it is a purely technical question and it is logical to accept. I don't see why they didn't accept it immediately, based on the amendments, the promoter and the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14123	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14124	Master Radojko Petric, MP of the SPS, has, with his personal experience as a longtime businessman and a man who has continued to perfect himself, submitted a real amendment where I think you should define yourself positively and accept it. In particular, as a professor of the university, I would insist that we in law commit Serbia's Chamber of Commerce to necessarily encourage the development of creativity in those areas of interest. So, the economy of a jet that has the full right to show its interest in those areas of research, scientific creation, which will give a boost to economic development in those areas where we may not be sufficiently with the world, or we cannot understand and accept the solution of the world. Why don't we do that, why don't we make them commit to those awards for graduate work, for the master's degree, for the doctorates, for the scientific contributions essentially have the right and the obligation to stimulate scientific work, and finally direct scientific work into those areas for which it's important. And to go back to that story about the regions -- it's very good that the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is structured so that it has the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade and regional chambers of commerce. Those who objected to such a story forgot that each region has its own specificity in resource potential and it is clear that regionalisation of chambers of commerce, which is present in practice today, and the law needs to be verified. It implies the obligation of regional chambers of commerce to make an affirmation of scientific, professional creation, but also of economic development, in the sense that the region's resources are optimally used. The Užički region has the application of technology, because there is a water potential of 55% of Serbia's water potential, drinking water, lies right in the Užički region, but it has another specificity - to develop clean technologies, but certainly to develop both tertiary activities, tourism, etc. So that's why regionalisation is, in order to be appropriate to the resources, the potential of the region, the development of the economy, and the Radojko Petric amendment is just talking about the application and development of scientific creation, scientific research, scientific research, research, not "story for story", theoretically, but applied research in the economy, to get results and increase economic production. In that sense, I urge you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14125	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 45, against 99, two abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. A representative of the proposings, the Government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14126	The amendment provides for the addition of Articles 1 to 21. The position first reads: "The funds for the work of the chamber are educated from membership fees, fees for services and from other sources. "We have suggested that the point be deleted behind the word "original" and that part of the text be added "in accordance with the law". This is because it's unclear what's behind the term "other sources." This law must be absolutely clear on this, because whoever finances the Chamber of Commerce controls the Chamber of Commerce. If it is necessary to pass a special law, then it should be passed, but the financing of the Chamber of Commerce must be in accordance with the law. If the membership fee, the service fee, is regulated by the statute of the Chamber of Commerce, then other sources must be regulated by law, because there you are opening up opportunities for the various financing of the work of the Chamber of Commerce, and what is, in some sense, illegal, which can represent corruption, bribery, bribery, offer to make the Chamber of Commerce more favourable to one entrepreneur, compared to another, etc., so that before the payment of the membership fee cannot be controlled as public income. Now I'm interested in what the promoter thought about it, whether the Chamber of Commerce will have any inspection, whether the Chamber of Commerce will have the possibility of blocking an entity's account that doesn't pay membership fees, or the service of the Chamber of Commerce, etc. I beg you, Mr. President, to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14127	Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Is anyone else answering for an amendment to Article 21? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 28, against 98, a abstentioned one, was not voted 26, a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st amendment was filed by MP Dragisa Marinkovic, and withdrew the amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was accepted by a proposing representative, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee, and the amendment became an integral part of the Bill's proposal. They shall be subject to Article 21 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, legislators of the law, have submitted, as the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous adoption of the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mr. Radoslav Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14128	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, since the amendment was accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed by Article 145, the proposal submitted an amendment: "The payment control of membership fees will take place in the manner established by the statute of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia", which is supported by the parent board and is also supported yesterday, so I suggest you adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14129	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 89, against 17, abstentions 31, no vote was taken 18, a total of 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have asked for the removal of Article 22, believing that the entire chapter relating to the General Association is not a place in this law. In order to explain why I am asking for an expropriation of Article 22, I would return to Article 8(2), which states that entrepreneurs who carry out economic activity in the form of registered occupations, their cooperatives are members of the chamber through general associations of entrepreneurs. So they have to go to cooperatives first, and then they form general associations and then they don't go to chambers. Article 22 provides that general associations of entrepreneurs are to be established in order to achieve joint ventures. This is what is meant by the owners of independent trade, craft and catering shops. Furthermore, Article 23 provides that general associations are established for the areas of the municipality, the area of the regional Chamber of Commerce, and Article 24, even, which is indeed one legal nonsension and something contrary to the spirit of even such a law, that a decision on the establishment of a general association is made by the Assembly of the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade or the regional Chamber of Commerce. So, the owners of independent trade, independent crafts, independent catering shops don't even have the freedom to set up such general associations themselves, but it's the chamber that will decide: we'll set up a general association of bakers, for example, but that's why we're not going to have a delicacy, a schneider, or I don't know what kind of work. That already means too much of a chamber interference in the work of these economic operators. On the other hand, it shows that there is no interest in either the state or the Chamber of Commerce, and the Chamber of Commerce is a chamber of state for these economic operators, meaning for independent trade, independent crafts, independent catering activities, and we are not surprised by this law. In my opinion, believe me, there's only one missing term of dignity that you've introduced into the laws of justice. When we ask whether the MP, a member of the Committee on Industry, as well as the president of the Republic Chamber of Commerce, deserves to be found in this place, when the very good public knows what his firm, Galeb, is doing, to import small tools like scissors from Italy, a bit of repacking, hit the label....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14131	Please don't bring up the facts of your private life, because you'll get a warning that's no longer cheap.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14132	It's not private life, it's about... (so it can be more expensive, it doesn't matter, it's your problem). Mr. President of the Chamber of Commerce has taken over the Mepritlastics as he has taken over, with a sock on his head, buying off-market bonds worth 100 marks for 15 marks. It's a crime for those who don't know, but it was in this position, anyway. He now needs to explain to us what the court of honor will do and this special court-elect in the Chamber of Commerce. I think it's a shame, if it's from you, Mr. Veselinovic, it's a lot, but I have an amendment to these two members of the law, and then we'll explain it even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14133	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 128, there were no abstentions, no vote was made by 8, a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vukosav Tomašević submitted to the 22nd amendment. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14134	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, this amendment is in direct contact with the previous amendment. So, by amendment to Article 22, I also proposed that membership in the general associations of entrepreneurs be established as voluntary. Since the previous amendment has not passed, of course, it does not make sense that this amendment will eventually be voted on. That would be one extra confusion in this otherwise bad law. That's why I'm withdrawing this amendment. However, I'm going to use some of the little time that belongs to me to say a few more things about the government's position and the promoter on these amendments. First of all, it is a strange position of the Legislative Committee, which is its opinion that these amendments do not comply with the concept of the law. Therefore, the Legislative Committee did not declare whether amendments were legally possible or not, which is its job. He gave himself the right to assess whether something was consistent with one concept or another. To be clear, it's proof to me that the concept of law in general is not good. I think we at the DSS proved that yesterday in a convincing way, unlike the unwise persuasion of the legislator that the law is good. In response to my amendments, the government says they are being rejected for the reason that the question of membership in the bill is governed in the same way as in the laws of other European countries, and that the bill only complies with the rules in the Republic of Serbia with the relevant regulations in other European countries. This explanation would be logical and acceptable if this whole law were in line with the laws of developed European countries. However, it is funny that this law, which in its essence is the law of the agreed economy, self-government socialism, only one member, only a provision relating to the obligation of membership, is in line with the legislation of the developed European countries of the liberal economy. I don't think anyone, not even the promoter, has convinced us here that that's enough reason to support their proposal. So, why is there harmony with the experience of Europe only on the obligation of membership, why is this whole law not in line with the experience of Europe? Why didn't we, for example, rewrite or adapt to our terms of the German Chamber Act, so that we have 83 chambers like the Germans, or the Italian law, which has 92 chambers? Why just the obligation of membership as an experience of other countries? I repeat, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14135	I find that MP Vukosav Tomasevic withdrew the amendment to Article 22. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14136	This bill conducts a kind of discrimination against private entrepreneurs. And Article 22, which was spoken of by a colleague of Gordana Pop - Lazic, and also by Article 23, who precisely defines which areas of the general association are set up, speaks in favour of this claim that we made yesterday and today, and this is now really one big problem because Mr Vesenovic, as a proposing (and he is the representative of the government here, this Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia, whose president he is, is in fact, the extended hand of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the current government) does not understand at all what the further role of private entrepreneurs in the development of our market economy should be, and what the role of the state in all this and what the Republic Government should be doing. The role of the state should, in any case, be dosed in creating conditions of rejuvenation. What should be provided by the Republic Government, as an executive authority, and which has not provided so far, in order to create normal conditions for the creation of the market economy that you are talking about so much - it needs first of all to make structural changes in the economy. We had here yesterday at the beginning of the debate the presence of Minister Vlahovic, who had experienced a complete debacle the day before and the right to tell you that I thought that man had not recovered, that he would have neither the opportunity nor the courage to come, but he came, said a few things in support of this legal project and left. And there's still nothing from the government and the minister himself about these structural changes that are needed through our country. So private entrepreneurs are located in one truly invisible position, because they cannot be direct members of Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, but only through general associations. The involvement of us Serbian radicals is not even to be members of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, but to establish their own chambers, because what is really going to happen, and there are many such examples, some are mentioned earlier, if the Serbian Chamber of Commerce does not decide to set up general associations, for example for millers, for those who produce flowers, for those who produce things from ceramics, etc. These aren't all trades and areas to be underestimated. They need to be based on the functioning of our market economy, in particular in the situation (and we will be talking about how many tomorrow or the next days) when several hundred thousand workers are being fired. Then they leave their factories, and they are all great craftsmen, people with great experience, with a lot of work and a lot of success, people who have contributed to their long-term work, can't all translate it into private entrepreneurship, because it's obvious that the state is not interested in protecting them and based on future development of the market economy in our country. That is why I think you should accept this amendment, as well as the amendment to Article 27 that I have submitted, as well as all the following in this entire chapter where general associations are spoken of. It simply needs to be possible for these people to join together and form their own chambers, not like this through the mediators, because no protection can get, no help, and they have to say themselves in the right sense that they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14137	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 115, a abstentioned one, was not voted 26, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Kovacevic. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 100, the abstentions were not, were not voted 28, a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to seriously think about what kind of organization we're now pushing entrepreneurs into. Article 10 in the activities of the chamber does not provide for the Common Association to be established by the Chamber. And in Article 24, we provide the Chamber, the only Chamber, with the possibility of establishing a general association by a decision of its assembly -- the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade, or regional chambers of commerce. And now those who are members of the General Association of Entrepreneurs, and in Article 22, we have provided for their association to be established, will wait for the Assembly of the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade or the Regional Assembly to determine first which activity and for which area it will establish the Association of Entrepreneurs, and then make a decision on the establishment of the Association of Entrepreneurs. Now, when they are as commercially incompetent as a minor, when they are established by someone else, they are given the opportunity: to have a statute, to choose the authorities, to have the property of a legal person and to enlist in the register of general associations run by the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade, which will determine how to run the register of general associations. At the same time, the Belgrade Chamber Assembly or the regional assembly determines the number and composition as well as the way members of the entrepreneurial community are elected, because despite the general association, it is expected that to bring common interests into line in the chambers of commerce, the community of entrepreneurs is also being educated. So anything to put under one hat, everything under control. Nothing is free anymore, and I repeat, the private sector in Serbia is self-inflicted. His legal regulations, his state, did not help him to grow, to develop, to strengthen and to move into a force that would draw the development of the society as a self-involved -- and he was advocating from private stores, from peasants who had never managed to lift property, even though everyone had wanted it since the October revolution, from the Soviets and through the FNRJ and the SFRJ, the peasant property, at least that part of the Maximum they had determined, no one could take. Now this is the way a man can no longer perform. It's a good thing you privates have fought the state so far. We've all helped you with that, and now we've got all the state's cargo, because you have no reason to fight this country anymore. This is a reformal, democratic state that gives you everything, so what else do you need now is for you to have an independent organization of your own. What will you, the opposition political parties, when there is both power and opposition within the DOS. People choose: DOS is there for you, you vote for power, you vote for the opposition, after the election none of them can do it alone. And as with the former regime, they will again have to, as together, and this conflict in the Assembly will come again, MPs will chew gum, read the papers, get out of the session, the ministers at the sessions will not be, but the state will boast that it is reform, that it is democratic, that it has let the people out of the way, that freedoms are stronger than ever. When you squeeze your economy into shackles like this, don't say that any of us, even of us who don't do any business, will have any freedom.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14139	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 26, against 122, three abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Kovacevic. Representative, Government, Committee for the Development of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 103, four abstentions, were not voted 18, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. Representative, Government, Committee for the Development of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 20, against 128, three abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. Representative, Government, Committee for the Development of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14140	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and this amendment is in fact a consistent commitment by the SRS to volunteer in chambers and directness in the membership and participation in the work of chambers, above all, as Article 26. refers to general associations. I would like to point out that these are the owners of independent trades, independent trades, independent catering shops. I am a member, whose removal I seek, says, among other things, that "the constitution of the general association is being carried out by the adoption of the statutes of the association and the choice of its bodies". So it's the Chamber of Commerce that's setting up the General Association, it's the statute and the choice of organs. Now we're wondering, isn't there supposed to be a reverse process? Don't you need economic operators, who have legal personality, to set up a general association themselves, and then the general association will even be a member of the Chamber of Commerce, even as you imagined this law. No, you put everything under your hat. So you decide in the Chamber of Commerce how many general associations you're going to start and for what activities you're working for. You will also bring their statutes, choose their organs. Whether or not that association will have members at all, you don't care. But, of course, they will, because without membership in those associations, and through these associations and in the chambers of commerce, they will not be able to get what, otherwise, under Article 11, the Chamber of Commerce forms public authority, betrays members of the Chamber of Commerce. The process of joining the Chamber of Commerce is completely reversed. That is why we intervened in each of these members, from 22 to 29, concerning general associations, believing that this state is not at all interested in the owners of independent trades, crafts and catering. In all, 6,000 have closed the door in the last few months thanks to the government of Serbia's monopoly regulations and high tax rates. Don't forget, there were two other employees who worked in these and those shops. It was also a legal obligation. That's 18,000 unemployed. Over 300 shipping companies are closed. Medium-sized enterprises no longer exist, except for those that, as "Mepritlastics", let's say you now become the majority owner, Mr. Vesenovic, do not get from the Fund for Development of 50 million dinars, and then maybe they can start production. But someone needs to be placed in the position of the president of the Republic Chamber of Commerce, to get so much money from Mr. Djindjic's Development Fund today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14141	The word is Mr. Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14142	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I suggest you reject this amendment. What Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic said, it's all incorrect. No loan from the Development Fund was received by this firm she mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14143	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 21, against 131, four abstentions, 13 did not vote, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 27th amendment. Representative, Government, Committee for the Development of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14144	Article 27 speaks of the statutes of the General Association. As we advocate that there are no general associations, that entrepreneurs can independently, on the basis of their relatives, what their independent trades are dealing with, that they join together, it is unnecessary that this whole chapter exists -- general associations. That's why we asked to delete all members from the 22nd to the 29th. However, we are going back to what I was just talking about, but now there is a continuation, and these are the conditions of market engagement for private entrepreneurs and all other entities of the economy, which the current government is absolutely unable to provide. We don't have any economic growth. This is an indicator of your failure and indifference to improve the overall situation in the economy, and economic growth was much greater in the first postwar year than it is now. Minister Vlahovic admitted, only to a much smaller extent, what the decline in industrial production was in the first half of this year. On the other hand, we don't have the stability of domestic prices. Import what anyone wants. They are loved ones of the regime through monopoly regulations, and we today have a situation that the whole Serbian market is flooded with various goods, especially those coming from countries with which some members from the ruling nomenclature have direct, connected interests. They make certain deals. If you keep in mind that imports, let's say, technical goods and each other from Slovenia so far (so far, finally with this quarter in the year) are about $140-150, and that our exports to that country, the banana-republic, are only $40 million, for the same period this year, you will see that there is not only no reciprocity but that someone has interest in working with both "burning" and with all those companies that import these goods into millions of dollars. Not to mention, there's no food industry at all, the agricultural industry is protecting our domestic production, and I'm not talking about that happening, and that's why this government has to remember, it's a kind of phenomenon) that it has devalued the German brand under your authority. Well, even those who produce something, who are working successfully and who may be in a position to place it in foreign markets, simply can't do it because you underestimated it, or because it's under you and the German brand has devalued it. Let me also look back at the general associations and the disciplines in which you put business entrepreneurs. In one part of the Law, you said, so before this chapter on private entrepreneurs, that all these entities that are indirectly associated can do so in the area of municipal, regional or regional chambers of commerce, and here you say that general associations are established for the area (and only those that dictate the Chamber of Commerce) of Commerce, the regional chambers of commerce or the area of one or more municipalities, and for one or more business activities. Well, if it happens now that entrepreneurs from the south and north of Serbia are joining together, what kind of chamber they can have. They can go through the general association only in the Chamber of the Republic of Serbia, and yet we return to what is the best solution, and what we have promoted behind the speaker is that it is best for all economic operators to join in and give entrepreneurs the opportunity. That way they can protect their interests. In this way, competences are intertwined and one general confusion is created, and private entrepreneurs themselves will not benefit from these general associations. It is therefore necessary to accept this amendment and delete Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14145	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 20, against 138, two abstentions, 14 did not vote, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, submitted to the 28th amendment. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Since MP Alexander Vukic is not present, is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124, three abstentions, 25 did not vote, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does he want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 17, against 126, four abstentions, they did not vote 23, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Kovacevic submitted the 29th amendment. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 110, the abstention of three, was not voted 23, a total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14146	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 32 refers to a permanent court-elect, and before that, we had a court of honor. Since when there are chambers of commerce there are also courts of honor. I remember when market inspectors applied to the Chamber of Commerce to determine the honor of certain economic operators and as a sanction for an irregularity or unfair match in a public note, it was announced that this private or private company had done so as to lower the credibility of the company and warned other business entities with whom they were involved, if they had any commercial chambers. However, we had, very soon, on the agenda of the laws on courts and we had nowhere to go, as some even specialised court, a permanent elected court. Now, this law establishes and here are the courts that are outside the justice system. Of course, it's possible that economic operators are talking, say, about the jurisdiction of a court like this. But what's illogical is that the decision of a court like this is final and has the power of a judicial verdict. It also violates Article 22. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of every person being guaranteed the right to appeal, or another remedy against a decision that decides on his right or on a law based on interest. I don't think the court of honor should survive, but a permanent elected court is absolutely excessive and is contrary to the Constitution and to our legal system, and as such should not exist, especially as it does not allow economic operators the right to appeal and the right to a second-degree decision. I remind you, President of the Chamber of Commerce, that you could have been the subject of a decision of one, say, court of honor at a time when you forged scratches used for welding machines, but then you were in a regular procedure before the judicial authorities for six months in custody. So regular courts have decided what you've done, whether you're responsible or not. Because of that and everything you've been doing lately, about cooperatives in Jelenca, Mali Vranjska, which you have hijacked and homes of culture in Mali Vranjska and Cerovac, I think you'd be the first to answer in front of one of these courts that you're instituting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14147	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14148	I know you don't find the National Assembly session interesting if there are no representatives of DOS and DSS parliamentary groups, so there are no sparks and no arguments. But, please, there are two or three more members, hold on to that much longer. Really should have given it a little more thought when Article 32 was written. The bill is because it is entering this country's legal system, and only a few days before that, the same people participated in the proposal, the interpretation and the vote of the judicial laws package. These laws have given us a trade court, a court that won't have any great authority. Imagine the judge who says I'm the judge of a trade court, but it's a court. That court needs to settle some disputes, and you now have a constantly elected court. I accept, it could be arbitration, or some other term to be used. But that attitude 3 is really pointless, which says, "The decision of a permanent elected court is final and has the power of a strong verdict." In what sense is a judicial verdict? Is there a right for one who thinks he's damaged by that judgment of a permanent elected court to conduct a regular trial? Then why would he need such a chosen court and what he needs a judicial verdict for? The chamber, then, has no second-degree body to decide on these disputes. I think that even if they appear before a trade court, no one will be able to appeal to the decisions of the chosen court, because it represents nothing. For a competent court, the decision of a chosen court of the Chamber of Commerce does not even constitute a paper that will enter the process. It is not relevant, it must not prejudge the court's decision, because you do not have the law under which that court will judge, you do not have the rules of that court. Simply, you're going to gather a few people who are going to say -- we're judges of a permanent elected court. Why is that? Why didn't you foresee agreement, alignment, arbitration, an attempt to smooth out relations, and people being tried before regular courts, and not now every association to establish its own courts, every group to have its own courts. Where's that gonna take us? It's obvious you'll reach out to these principles further. You should accept this amendment because it will speed up dispute resolution and speed up justice. Because if they have to stand before a permanent elected court first, and there are no deadlines for his decisions, and you, by the statute of the chamber, predict that they must first stand before the court of the chamber to be tried, or if the court goes to regular court, to exclude him from the membership of the chamber, because he does not respect the statute, and that permanent court has no deadlines, there are no rules of conduct, litigation runs indefinitely, then he loses capital, goes into bankruptcy. You can see that in a day, a man can go bankrupt, even though he has hundreds of millions of marks. Then it's in vain for him to speak to the court of law. He may not have the money to charge a lawsuit to a regular court, or trade court, as you call him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14149	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Honor and a permanent elected court and now exists in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. It's been determined exactly how it works. This is about economic operators talking about the jurisdiction of the chosen court. In any case, it is only being extended here that this court refers to the Chamber of Commerce of Vojvodina and the Chamber of Commerce of Kosovo and Metohija. That is why I propose that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14150	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. ) If no one answers for a word, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 124, three abstentions, not voted 16, a total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 23, against 130, a abstentioned one, was not voted 12, a total of 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14151	This is the last or the last of our amendments. Its purpose was to unite all amendments so far. We have suggested that you stop working on the regional chambers of commerce, the province's Chamber of Commerce, Belgrade, to stop working for a year, and that businesses are organised by a completely different system, by a system of chambers in which there will be no restrictions. Since you have not accepted the amendments so far, I'm sure you won't accept this one, even though we won't give up on him. I would point out, however, that a permanent elected court should be tried by law, and there is no court in Serbia that makes its own rules under which to judge. This is what the UN tribunal is doing in the world; so you did not foresee for the businessmen such a court, which will decide its own jurisdiction, in a regular manner, and the decision-making manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14152	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 27, against 128, two abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This ended the search of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. Does the Proposer's representative, according to the Rules of Procedure, want a final word? He has the word Mr. Radoslav Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14153	Dear Presidency, first of all, I would like to thank you for these two days of exhaustive work on this law, for supporting the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, and for also creating me a commitment, as president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, to fully implement this law and to make this law a position of development of Serbia's economy. That's why I want to thank you again and vote for this bill. As I can see, I think he'll be adopted most of the votes. Welcome to Serbia's chamber system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14154	There's a word Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14155	Since, like most MPs in the Assembly, I do not share your enthusiasm, I ask you to vote on the basis of article 114 by raising your hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-21-0.u14156	The National Assembly will declare your proposal to vote publicly, by raising your hand. I ask the messengers to plead. For 29, against 122, two abstentions, 12 did not vote, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular and ask the MPs to declare themselves on the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, in general. For 99, against 54, abstentioned 5, three, a total of 161 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on chambers of commerce. I know you're very anxious to move on to the bill of amendments to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, but I have to ask you, are you ready for this session to end today, or should we continue to work? So, I have a proposal to stop working now, to leave at the tenth point tomorrow at 10.00 hours. I'm asking you to make your point. For 129, against seven abstentions 8, 9 did not vote, a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that according to official records, there are 138 MPs present today. To determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards. I ask the service to count the number of MPs present in the O.R. 130 MPs are present in the O.R. I ask the MPs to carry out their parliamentary obligation to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Here you go.
