ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 191 MPs attend today's session. (Employer Tomislav Nikolic advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we cannot begin the debate until the MPs have received all the amendments they have tabled on the single agenda. Since I've given up some amendments, they're still not on the benches. I believe, Mr. President, that we are unable to monitor the debate and that you cannot begin this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1241	Mr. Nikolic, the debate isn't even open. So far, you have nothing to follow. The material's being delivered right now. Therefore, after the debate is opened, if you are patient and patient, we will take a break to prepare the materials and work of the committees in order to create opportunities for quality decision-making in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the answer? No, I don't. Are you asking me to put it to a vote? No, I don't. Thank you. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I am notifying the absence of the MPs. The absence of the following MPs was approved: Dusan Golubović, Kosti Nikolic, Vladan Jovičić, Branislav Pomoriško, Maja Maršićevic-Tasic, Ivan Andric, Aleksandra Popovic, Aleksandra Sajkov, Aleksandra Stefanovic, Rodoljub Sabic (who is there but announced his departure). I would like to inform you that the meetings were called to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, which was called at the request of a group of 89 MPs of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Fifth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, the following Dn e n i d 1 was identified. The draft decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia's parliamentary group. By respecting the provisions of Article 82, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I called for a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 within a short period of seven days, so that, before the start of the regular session of the National Assembly, which begins on 1 March, we would adopt a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, whose adoption, according to the proposal, creates conditions for the timely and better preparation of the session of the National Assembly and its more efficient work in the coming period, during which increased legislative activity is expected. Since the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted for review under the urgent procedure, has already been made known by the committees responsible - Legislative and Administrative - please, in accordance with Article 159(5). The Rules of Procedure, at the break of the sittings, declares and of the amendments submitted. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Compendiums of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision, submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia. You have received amendments, which were submitted to the motion for a decision by the MPs: Lazar Marjanski, Slobodan Pavlovic, StevanGudurić, Đura Lazić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Bozidar Vučurović, Goran Cvetanović, Ljubomir Kragović, Aleksandar Vučić, Tomislav Nikolic, Srboljub Zivanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. The MPs who submitted the amendments until the beginning of this session were listed. The submission of the amendment shall be concluded at the beginning of the debate. You also received a report from the Legislative Committee. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Before we begin a single search, I suggest that due to the inflow of the amendment, just before the debate begins, we take a break in the length of an hour. The National Assembly, in agreement with the Rules of Procedure, makes the decision. At that time, the Legislative and Administrative Committee, in its usual rooms in the partyer and on the second floor, will look at the amendments, give an opinion and then continue to review the draft decision. Does anyone have any other suggestions? No one's answering. ) If not, please make this proposal known.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1242	Not just me, but a few MPs around me didn't get a basic decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1243	Now we're taking a break and everything that's been missed, in a technical sense, will be compensated in this break. The service will do it. All MP groups have all the material. Therefore, you may have failed to contact the seat of the parliamentary group. I'm putting the motion to vote so we can take a break. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please make your statement on this proposal. I conclude the vote and find that 175, against three, abstentions, did not vote 16, a total of 195 MPs present. I find that we have adopted this proposal. So we have one hour break for the work of the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee. [[After break - 12.10 hours]] Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work and ask you to establish the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1245	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, before the debate on the proposed agenda begins, I would like to ask that the discussion be limited to five minutes, given that 12.30 is almost 13 hours, and given that we have a serious job ahead, I think five minutes is an acceptable restriction that will come up in our need for effective work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this session is completely off the table, that the MPs of the opposition be removed from the Assembly Hall, because that is what you want most, and that is how you will best vote this extremely restrictive Rules of Procedure and prevent the opposition from interfering with your government. In this country, since the coup of King Alexander Karadjordjevic and from the titoistic dictatorship, there has been no authority that has bothered the opposition more than this dossic authority. Why five minutes? There are many opposition MPs, how you can spend five minutes when you have so much to do and to dig, to sow, to produce, not to waste time in the Assembly. I even suggest, and that might be best, if the MPs were to declare in the mail whether they were to accept or not to accept the laws and not to come to the Assembly building. Why the Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1248	Will you only plead - which proposal do you put to the vote of these two?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1249	Mr. President, you should remember the proposals of the MPs. I propose that the debate be lifted, that opposition be removed from the assembly, and I suggest that the session not be held, but that MPs be made known in the mail about the proposals of the authorities. You can put the vote first, and the second and third proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1250	Thank you. We have two suggestions. Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal to limit the duration of the discussion within this single item of the agenda to five minutes and to Mr Seselj's proposal not to hold a debate at all, to further opposition MPs from the hall and to declare MPs in the post. First, I put Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal to vote. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please vote on Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal. (Employee Milorad Mircic, from the post: Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Just a second, be nice and let me write down the results so I can turn on your microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1251	Here, look how the word is prevented and how it is released. You have injured the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Article 116, third position, where it says: the time to vote by using the electronic system is 15 seconds. In the last session, I also warned you from this pay phone on behalf of the SRS that you are persistently trying to violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Either you will follow the Rules of Procedure consistently, or until this new Rules of Procedure is brought forward, you decide to violate this already existing and do as you please. You have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and if you are not very good at it, you do not know it, you have your associates there, among other things there is a technical face secretary. It clearly says that the time to vote is 15 seconds, and you keep extending time, sometimes up to 20 or 25 seconds, depends on how many of your coalition partners are picked up from the restaurant.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1252	Thank you. If I extended the vote, how many seconds did you say? (Serb Radical Party lawmakers, all voiced for six seconds, and MP Vojislav Seselj, also from 6.37 seconds). I accept and bear full responsibility for extending the vote in six seconds. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1253	Mr. President, by putting Mr. Jovanovic to the vote, you have injured Article 92(1). The Rules of Procedure, which states: The time of presentation of the People's MP shall be 10 minutes, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise at the beginning of the search of certain points of the agenda. You started the search on this agenda an hour and 45 minutes ago and took a break to get reports from the board that haven't been able to review the amendments. Mr. Jovanovic was late with a proposal to limit the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1254	Thank you for seeing the Rules of Procedure like this. I believe that, as the break is given immediately after the opening of a single search, so in the second the search is opened, a break has been made at your request, to get acquainted with the materials so that you can follow the search in quality and that is enabled for you and no word is given. Mr. Jovanovic then answered, and then I didn't give him my word and I took a break and it's actually the beginning of a search. (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: Additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1255	We can also make an insight into the stenographic notes. I went out, objected to why we're starting with the agenda, why we're opening a search when we haven't received all the amendments submitted by the MPs. You said I should have patience, that we would open a search and then give a break for the amendments to be shared with the MPs. What lasts for one or two seconds is a search, he started and this committee's work or some kind of search on the agenda points, Mr. President, means that the time to discuss this agenda point, according to the only agenda point, can't be limited if we respect the Rules of Procedure. If you vote for a proposal to be limited, then everything can be in this assembly, but then do not write any amendments or additions to the Rules of Procedure, do not share that book with us when the mandate is verified and when we enter the National Assembly. Say, "The MPs will await the decision of the National Assembly in the session of the National Assembly, and these decisions will regulate the work of the MPs of the people. It is truly inappropriate for us here to try to keep every member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in mind so that we can point to your injuries, and when we get out, you simply show that these members do not matter and that everything depends on what you say and how the parliamentary majority votes. There's something you can't even vote on. It says so clearly that there is no longer any doubt. The search on this agenda began nearly two hours ago, and now during the search, time cannot be limited. I'm asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1256	We will vote on the essence of the decision, whether the proposal was tabled at the beginning of the debate, or whether this is not the beginning of the debate. The Rules of Procedure ask that it be at the beginning of the debate. So, did this moment at which Mr Jovanovic proposed a cut of the discussion, whether it was the beginning of a debate in a united search. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting the motion of Mr. MP Tomislav Nikolic to the vote. I'm closing the vote in exactly 15 seconds. I find that 37, against 145, the abstentions, did not vote five, and 187 MPs were present in total. It is only my duty, since we have discussed this issue, to inform you of the results of the vote proposed by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. For 137 against 33, there were no abstentions, and three MPs did not vote. We have a second proposal, proposed by the MP Mr Vojislav Seselj, which is that no debate is being held in the National Assembly, that representatives of opposition parties should not be allowed access, if I understand correctly, and that MPs declare themselves on the proposed points of mail, or written by means. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please vote on Mr. Seselj's proposal. For 7 against 161 abstention, 6 did not vote 11, a total of 185 MPs were present. I'm guessing the motionary didn't vote for his own proposal either. Vojislav Seselj is asking for a word. Here you go. You are right not to write explicitly in the Rules of Procedure, but starting with the public's need for the work of Parliament, as the public can hardly monitor this electronic system, I found it interesting to inform the public. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1258	Mr. President, you are the speaker of the National Assembly, the first among the equals. The public work of this National Assembly is provided by direct television transmission and free presence of accredited journalists to all assembly sessions. You're not here to judge what's interesting to the public and to suggest specifically to the public what might or should be interesting to her. You don't need anything to be particularly interesting here. This is your subjective approach, and you as president of the National Assembly should avoid any subjective approach, especially subjective. You should treat all MPs and all MPs politely here, and refrain from such comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1259	Thank you very much. Does the promoter want a word? Boyana Alexic is looking for a word. ). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1260	I just want to ask one question: How is it possible that MPs who are not present in the O.R. and who do not vote later during the discussion receive a word? Someone who's not in the O.R. can't discuss it. I wonder if we're listening to ghosts here, or what it's about. (Dr. Vojislav Seselj, from the city: E, this is an intelligence matter. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1261	Yes, you're right. We have already warned Serbian Radical Party MPs on several occasions that they are breaking the Rules of Procedure by not inserting identification cards, but we may decide otherwise in the course of the work of this assembly. Vojislav Seselj is asking for a word. You have no right yet. I'm waiting for the MP Alexic to come forward, does he want another word? If not, go ahead. (Alexic Bojana, from the place: I just want to ask how MPs who are not in the hall can speak? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1262	You, Mr. President, are breaking the Rules of Procedure again. It's not our responsibility to put in the cards. It's not an obligation. Would you like to put order in the O.R.? You've been announcing someone bringing in the order of MPs, but, I see, it's not working out for you. Mr. President... What are you nervous about today? What's wrong with you? Are you under leave? What's the matter? Will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1263	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1264	How you let me when it's impossible to speak. You can see there's grace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1265	You go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1266	You can't prescribe obligations for MPs here. The MP can vote for, vote against, be abstention and not vote at all. You can't even figure out that someone's not in the O.R. if you can't determine your presence using this technique, you can either visually or by counting, as you've often done before. Do not engage again in making up the rules of the Rules of Procedure or prescribing something as an obligation that is currently in your mind. You can't get any MPs to put their card in if he won't. You can't shut him out of Parliament for that, you can't take away his mandate, but you can arrest him. You've shown you can arrest for no reason at all. Now, that would be a good reason to arrest the MPs, because they didn't want to put a card in. That would be a great thing for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1267	In Article 84. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 3, reads: "The quorum is determined by the application of the electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is required to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting an identification card into the parliamentary unit." By failing to fulfil this obligation, and it is clear that it is an obligation, you are in a position to violate the Rules of Procedure. Because of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly can give you all the rules of procedure established. These are the ones I hinted to you about - that later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1268	Mr. President, when we entered the O.R., we identified ourselves. And now, during the session, you provide a quorum with the help of the parliamentary majority. The opposition, at least the real opposition, will never make a quorum for you here. You have more than a convincing majority. You have 177 MPs. You're the only one responsible for the quorum. You have repeatedly accused all MPs of lack of quorum. You can't do that. There's an opposition here to criticise the government, to attack power, not to make you a quorum. We identified ourselves when we entered and exhausted our obligation. For all other decisions, the quorum must be provided by the congregation majority. Of course, if you can't do it yourself, there's always some satellite party who thinks it's her duty in Parliament to help the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1269	Thank you very much. After this fruitful discussion, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1270	I would ask the President of the Assembly and the Bureau to strictly respect the Rules of Procedure in the future, Articles 116 and 117. In Article 116, paragraph 2, it is said that before moving to each vote, the president of the National Assembly is required to identify the MPs. Article 117 also states that MPs are obliged exclusively to use their identification cards, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the parliamentary unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1271	Thank you very much. I accept this obligation arising from the Rules of Procedure. The objection is appropriate. If there are no more reports of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Proposer if he wants a word? He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1272	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all that preceded my argument in favour of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic Assembly was enough in itself, but I will still remain on a few basic information that I am obliged to give ahead of the DOS parliamentary group. The constitutional basis for amending the existing Rules of Procedure is contained in Article 82. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the Parliament's rights to establish its own rules of work and behaviour in the House of Representatives. There are a number of reasons for the amendments and additions of the existing Rules of Procedure. I'll remind you that we're working on a Rules of Procedure adopted in 1994. Three basic levels of changes to be made to the existing Rules of Procedure. It is certainly the first need of the Rules of Procedure to comply with the laws that have been passed over the previous seven years, and this seems to be the issue of the Internal Affairs Act, given that the powers of the Security Committee are changed, as regards the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs in the Greater Republic. The second level of amendments to the existing Rules of Procedure is the result of our efforts to meet the needs of the services monitored by Parliament's work. It is impossible to work effectively without the support of these services, and these services themselves have made certain objections, pointing to the shortcomings of the existing Rules of Procedure. We've respected the objections, they've gone through the Administrative Board and it concerns, above all, the deadlines. I think there's been a consensus on the college. True, it was not attended by representatives of an opposition party, but it is their right, they used their right to do so. As for that political dimension of the amendment of this Rules of Procedure, we have been forced on it, above all through the expressions of our efforts to transfer the process of change, which was started in society, to the Republic Parliament. First of all, we are thinking about our need to work effectively and that, without suspending the right of MPs, we still respect the need of this society to pass a whole series of laws, which in themselves do not have time to wait and debate. Some MPs may have rightly come here, expecting us to respect their need for resociation, but we are not obliged to act as such, and certainly, the upcoming changes in the Rules of Procedure will at least be somewhat removed from the possibility of obstruction, which in itself does not have any function, apart from disabling the effective work of parliament. First of all, I am referring to amendments relating to the debate on amendments and the law in particular. We have found a compromise through consultations with the representatives of the SPS and the SS, respecting the need for MPs to actively contribute to the adoption and work of laws, but at the same time the need for society not to overemphasise ourselves in a way that would itself be antithesis. So everything we're doing right now is based on the Constitution and the respect of the law. This has been confirmed by the Legislative Committee, and this is an expression of our efforts to spare Parliament, and the society of the situation of which we have been witnesses and actors of the previous four assembly sessions. I think that in any case, given the fact that we have a congregation majority, we will adopt the proposed changes, that we will affirm the work of Parliament, that we will bring in some newspapers. First of all, I am referring to the ability of MPs and congregation bodies to control the work of the government. For the first time, something like this is done, and we will make a comprehensive contribution to the accelerated process of reform in society. We ask you to support these proposals and continue your work despite all that preceded the beginning of my debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1273	He has the word Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1274	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Unity Party would rather talk at this session about the most intense issues concerning Serbian citizens. We would prefer to discuss today the issue of southern Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, of victims falling in Kosovo and Metohija and southern Serbia, of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. We would like to talk today about spring sowing, electricity restrictions and how to solve these problems. For the past two months, we have not put life problems on the agenda of Serbian citizens. But if today's extraordinary session is scheduled to be more effective and contributes to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then it is acceptable for us. We believe that this does not undermine the equality of every MP in person, because in the debate and in principle we can all talk about the proposed legislative project or any other decision. But in the debate in particular, indeed only the MP who is interested in any member of the proposed law and who submits the amendment has the right to speak, and also has the right to speak to the head of the parliamentary group. We think it's acceptable and democratic, and if that's really in order to improve efficiency, and we want to believe that it is, then we want to support it. As for the interpretation, or the people's language, of the government's report on its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and in general, to the citizens of Serbia, we have a completely different opinion here, which we have held in consultation with the president of the Assembly, and I will repeat it here as well. We believe that, in accordance with the good, democratic principles of many Western countries, to which so often, and sometimes very often, we call unwarrantedly, to establish practice as it is in these countries. Let's say that the Prime Minister submits every month to the MPs, and thus to all citizens of Serbia, a report on the government's work. If he can't do it because of the government's busyness, then one of the seven vice-presidents of the government can do it. I think it would make the full public work of the government and that, by doing so, the government, and the National Assembly, would gain much more in its efficiency, but also in the people, by its democracy. I think that should be adopted and I think that this kind of interpretation would be really acceptable. I see no reason not to report on the government's work once a month, to discuss this previously, and that each parliamentary group, after the Prime Minister's resignation, or vice president, has the right, for example, to criticise the government's work for an hour on this matter. I think that would be quite democratic and that would be quite acceptable for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1275	Mr. Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for ten years in this House, there has been an opposition struggle to make a better rules of procedure. Serbian radicals also participated in the fight, and representatives of other opposition parties, many of the parties now ruling within the DOS. This Rules of Procedure, as we now have, is the result of our shared struggle, a struggle that was once so fierce and fiery that it led to police intervention, but we have endured that fight and we have made a Rules of Procedure that is good, which is good and for power, and it is even better for the one who was the government, and has returned to opposition again. DOS should now consider -- which is the best rules of procedure that will suit its parties when they soon lose power, not to seek a variant, as some others have done before, how to make the opposition as impossible as possible. You are now heading towards much more difficult restrictions than those that have ever existed in the past ten years. You think the Assembly is effective when it speaks a little bit. That's not true. The assembly is more efficient as the debate is longer and better. The more MPs he says, the more effective the Assembly is. This is the parliament, the place where it's spoken. Parliament is not effective if not spoken much. Parliament is sterile. Only in countries playing parliamentaryism, which are communist dictatorships, various other dictatorships, etc., MPs are competing to praise the authorities more. The essence of parliament is that the government is criticised as hard as possible, that the government is afraid of every parliamentary session, that it fears every act that comes before MPs and that it is terrified of what the MPs will say. That's the essence of Parliament. Inside the DOS, there are many leaders who were once seen as prominent freedom fighters, for democracy, for many leaders who have become known as political theorists, etc. Now I am surprised by this fracture in my heads, in my brains, by this view that only restrictions are good in parliament and that parliament is successful if it is being ambushed as short as possible. According to that logic, this parliament would be even more successful if 250 MPs fell to 15. That would be incomparably more successful, what if it wasn't done? This parliament would be the most successful if there were no MPs at all. Then the government would be completely free to show how good, capable and how much the people love her. What is the essence of this House then? To control the executive power and to pass laws or to have the executive power more effectively controlled by parliament, and even by determining where any MP will sit. You are predicting these amendments that the Administrative Board, where the ruling majority has the largest number of Members, determines where anyone will sit. Do you know of any parliament in the world where it is done? We know, English. That's not true. In the British Parliament, it exists, where the rule of law of the opposition is clearly distinguished, but by facing it, on the one hand, all MPs of the government, on the other hand, all MPs of the opposition and among them is always direct confrontation. In that confrontation, everyone has the exact same rights. Speaker, keep an eye out that everyone has the same rights in that confrontation. There is no such thing in other parliaments, as political parties are technical organisations. They are neither a direct constitutional factor nor legal. They are a means of political struggle, until it reaches a place in parliament. In Parliament, every MP is a representative of the people. All MPs have the right not to be members of any parliamentary group. How are you going to schedule now, if a group of 20 or 23 MPs decide they are not in any of the parliamentary groups? By what criteria, who's going to make it? (President: Time. ) The ruling majority now plans to place the opposition, so that it will be as strange as possible, in order to be inconspicuous. I suggest you put opposition MPs in the pioneer park or somewhere far away from this assembly. Then you will be able to work in peace, to make your parliament as effective as possible, you will be able to adopt all legal projects without discussion. Obviously here we can discuss one conspiratory form of power, a government that controls all the media, launchs over those media whatever lie she comes up with and makes it impossible for anyone to contradict. The only place you can hear the opposition from the authorities is this parliament. Now you're going to choke that place, as communists who decided in 1945 and 1946 that they didn't need opposition. Now you're publicly saying that you don't need an opposition, just play the way you're going to deal with it and how you're going to end the opposition and how you're going to deal with it. (President: Please finish. ) Defend the opposition to speak, so you did with Dragoslav Jovanovic, first he was forbidden to speak, and then he went to ten years in prison, because he thought differently from the Communist Party's stance. I urge you to think carefully, you'd better give up this legal project. Think of always needing a rulebook that will be useful to you when your role changes soon, when you find yourself in opposition benches again. It's just a good rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1277	There's a word from the MP, Mr Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1278	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, allow me to make a few key points on behalf of the SPS Group. First of all, I think that we here in this room should agree on some minimum interest of Serbian citizens. The minimum interest of Serbian citizens is to discuss those legislative solutions in this room, which will certainly affect the improvement of the position of Serbian citizens in every respect. In this regard, it is certainly the task of every MP to experience this parliament in this way. The interest of the legislator, whether by government or by one of us MPs, is that his law is considered by all thinking people in this hall, by 250 MPs, by the MPs sent by the people here to think about him and to improve those solutions so much that through these solutions a much better and social and business miles for life and work on the premises of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I would like to point out, as a member of the SPS, that this Rules of Procedure, which you started working with, was adopted in 1994, when a huge number of SPS MPs sat in these benches. The rules of procedure were clearly so well-democraticly done, so he gave rights to opposition MPs that now the majority coalition of the DOS in this parliament thinks it can narrow it down in certain rights and continue to see it as democratic. Immediately, we had 119 MPs in 1994, and with New Democracy, most of the 126 were formed, and then I became a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the majority coalition and formed the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So this Rules of Procedure since 1994 is obviously a democratic Rules of Procedure, because now, by narrowing down certain rights when it comes to discussion in particular, it is essentially a majority coalition in this parliament, proposing it, which continues to be democratic. In that sense, I want to point out that motive is efficiency in work. Anyone in power is ready to detect obstruction. Apparently, the biggest obstruction in the history of this parliament was recorded in 1996 in July, when the Law on Local Self-Government was discussed, when more than 1,000 amendments were put in place to obstruct the law, so the Rules of Procedure remained in effect as a whole. So much about democracy and that democracy was gone or maybe more about it than it was going to be. As far as the consultation is concerned, I would like to say that we have been invited by the President of the Assembly, that the president of the DOS Parliamentary Group was present in this House that we have been informed of our intentions, that we have agreed on a significant part of our intention and that we have had the opportunity to give our suggestions, that these suggestions have been accepted and we have left the right to debate in particular to state our views and to present them here today. But I want to point out for all of us, when it comes to the work of this Parliament at all, that Parliament must maintain control over the work of the authorities it chooses. The key body, which this parliament is choosing, is the government of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, we will support the amendment, which speaks of impellation, because we believe that the only time that impelation is for opposition parties to have the right directly, without the will of the majority in the Assembly, to ask the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to ask the question of trust if they are not satisfied with the answer. But here we are fighting for efficiency in the work of the Assembly, and we have a government that is completely inefficient. We are changing the Rules of Procedure in order to be more efficient, even denying the right of MPs to make their views known in particular, and we have a government that does not solve the problem of electricity, which does not provide salaries to educators, does not solve the problem of southern Serbia, that Albanians are digging trenches, and we are digging graves. The Rules of Procedure must allow for control of the work of the Government. The Rules of Procedure should allow the government's work to be discussed here in the Serbian Parliament, in the highest authority of Serbian citizens, as well as the right to invoke the part of the government that does not work. We want the efficiency of the Assembly, and in Kladov, where 35 SPS committee members, four DOS deputies, after talks with the minister of justice, there is an MP present from DOS Popovic, and the desperado is still breaking into the municipality's assembly and making it impossible for her to work for ten days. It's the same story in the White Palace. Why can't we ask the government a question about the work of the ministry in charge of local self-government? Will the work take place through the introduction of a forced administration, wherever the Socialist Authority is located? We will discuss this Rules of Procedure, but each of us in this room must consider that we are Serbian citizens and that we must agree on a consensus in which there is no political interest. We need to agree on a minimum of interest for Serbian citizens. When adopted, the vast majority here will be convinced that she has given everything she knows to live better in this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1279	If none of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answer for a word anymore, I give the word to Stevi Dragisic and after him Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1280	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that we are changing today was brought in 1994 in November. On that Rules of Procedure, which is now in force, 390 amendments have been submitted. The similarity with this Rules of Procedure is that the then draft Rules of Procedure was divided two days before the debate began. This proposal by the Rules of Procedure has not been received today by many MPs. The similarity is that many solutions, which were then the main target of criticism of opposition MPs, were detained, such as, say, the 10-minute limit to discussion, where there is the possibility of the Assembly to shorten the discussion by its decision at the session. Then, the possibility of participating MPs in proposing amendments and other opportunities available to opposition MPs when it comes to their opposition work in the Assembly. In addition to retaining these restrictive solutions that opposition MPs criticised in 1994, even more restrictive solutions are being envisaged. The most characteristic example is that, let's say, MPs are denied the opportunity to participate in the debate in particular when the amendment has been proposed by another MP, but the debate is limited only to that MP who submitted the proposal to the Assembly, and MPs are further completely prevented from proposing amendments in the event that the Government submits a law during the sitting itself, which is authorized under Article 158(1). Then, the possibility of replication is also now left to the National Assembly president to widely interpret whether he will allow the MP to replicate or allow him to replicate or not for another time, so that the assembly under the password of labour efficiency implies exclusively narrowing the possibilities and participation of MPs in its work. I'll quote you a few copies of the speech that the current ministers were speaking as opposition MPs. Justice Minister Vladan Batic, then a MP of the people, for this proposal of the Rules of Procedure that we discussed at the time, says: (Below the password of more efficient work, one of the fundamental freedoms, freedom of speech is violated). He goes on to say, "This is your rule of law that limits freedom of speech, both in length and in rows. If you allow MPs to speak, 10 minutes are foreseen (what they complain about), and I see right now that you're in advance of this discussion, at this point in the agenda, you've limited it to 5 minutes (and you complain about it). You can limit it for a minute, that's what we're talking about now, because that's what the majority of the congregation decides about. So if you let us talk for a minute or five minutes, then you'll have to watch what he says, say what you want to say in fact. If not, if the president doesn't like what he's saying, he'll simply take away the MP's word. That way, like nowhere in the world, MPs will have to keep your mouth shut, and they will have to speak extremely. When in one state MPs must remain silent, the people will not be able to whisper. ( That is what the Minister of Justice used to say. Mr Vojislav Kostunica, today's president, was then an MP, an opposition MP, the president of one opposition party, and on this proposal by the Rules of Procedure that is changing today and its restrictiveness, Kostunica said: (What is characterized by a democratic order, including within the framework of parliament which is the essence of democracy, is the essence of democracy, is a greater concern for minority rights, protection of minority rights. Of course, that protection of minority rights must not be contrary either. But minority rights must be protected and one democratic order, including in parliament, so when it comes to the rules of procedure, either falls, or remains in force. ( Thus, how he cares about minority rights. Furthermore, Kostunica adds: (and this parliament, simply, by all these changes, by regulating the rights of the minority, serves all of this. He is a front for freedom in this society, he is simply a fig leaf and an undemocracy that exists in this society. Further, Kostunica says: (This parliament is just as it is. With this composition, with these changes to the Rules of Procedure, with this repressive character of the Rules of Procedure, by limiting parliamentary debate, it simply serves to conceal that there has been a change, which, of course, is not easy to carry out. (I will finish with the last quote, as said by the current prime minister of the Republic government, Zoran Djindjic. Since the Democratic Party was then the only opposition party to participate in the development of this Rules of Procedure with the SPS and New Democracy, it did not fiercely criticise the restrictions of the Rules of Procedure, but some of its MPs did. "Mr Jovanovic spoke of obstruction and abuse of the pay phone. It's on the agenda, I don't know, beekeeping. The MPs come out and talk. You know why? Because this is the only place the opposition MPs are relatively equal. Parliament is a valve, there's a lot of pressure, and there's a lot of pressure to come up with this huge pressure that's being created in society. "But the minority uses that possibility more than usual because it is the only option. There are no other options for a large number of parties. There are individual media promotions, but as parties, as a large number of party activists, and we only have that possibility here. Therefore, this House, you can bring a Rules of Procedure whatever you want, you cannot ban MPs under any excuse to come for this pay phone and say what they want to say, cannot be repressively prevented. ( This was said by Zoran Djindjic, while he was president of the opposition party.) At the time of your opposition, this is how you spoke. You have criticised a repressive Rules of Procedure that you are changing today, you retain its repressive provisions, and those that have still corresponded to opposition parties and enabled free work, you are narrowing them down today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1281	I ask the MPs to take care of the scheduled time for exposure. The word is by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1282	This is what Kostunica, Djindjic and Batic said when they were opposition MPs, and today speak differently. Ladies and gentlemen, the DOS also presents this proposal for a decision by the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the National Assembly, otherwise a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia, sent a call for the 5th extraordinary session, but he probably deliberately forgot to send us the proposal we are discussing today and which most will likely adopt. We have only one item on the agenda today, and this is the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. We only met with the proposal at the parliamentary clubs, or at the session of the Parliament club. Wasn't it normal for this to be sent a few days earlier, for MPs to read carefully the motion for a decision, to deliver the amendments in good time, for the Assembly committees to take a timely stand on the proposal for a decision and on these amendments, so that this session would normally run. Today we interrupt the session, continue it at 1200 hours, so that only today some MPs will submit amendments, or assembly committees, to take positions. The president of the National Assembly is making voting machines out of the MPs. He wants us to simply raise our hands, to proclaim everything that the government or congregation majority offers us. This may be appropriate for DOS lawmakers, because they must not report for the word if it is approved by their boss, Cedomir Jovanovic. It is not acceptable for the MPs of the SRS. After all, the DOS MP is often not in the O.R. They're usually in a restaurant, a buffet, a Prince of Michael, and judging by this throwout and some unarticulated voices, they probably go to the zoo sometimes, where they draw inspiration for torture and this ugly throw. For nothing now, the local DSS officials say, the situation in Serbia is the wrong yellow company, they call the Democratic Party. Now they're defending Vojislav Kostunica, like, he's good, only these others are bad around him...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1283	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1284	I think the topic of the agenda is the debate on the proposal for a decision on the new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1285	You might think it has something to do with it, but it doesn't matter. So please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1286	You are not invited to judge whether there is a connection, and while we are at your place, you are acting worse than your predecessor Dragan Tomic. We've had it with Tomic, and we'll make it easier for you. This proposal of the Rules of Procedure, the new one, you're working on force. You're too arrogant. You think most people can do anything. The Jews had a majority when they crucified Christ, but they were wrong. Take care, your work in Serbia has begun to show satisfaction. Here you go, you're being struck by your educators. Health workers are getting ready. Why don't you take care, why don't you pass laws that will regulate the payout, why don't you make sure there's enough power in Serbia, to solve the problem of not being killed by cops, civilians in southern Serbia and Kosovo? These are key issues that must be resolved at the government and in this parliament, because here the other day said Zarko Korac, Deputy Prime Minister, unfortunately no more donations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1287	For the second time, I warn you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1288	If this motion for a decision is all you are, now I'm sticking to the agenda, having to offer Serbia, and you've been doing this maybe a few months, I'm afraid what's going to happen to those laws you're allegedly preparing and that you're about to offer to this assembly. God forbid, what you can bring to Serbia and how Serbia will endure all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1289	The word has a folk MP, Zarko Obradovic, and after that, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1290	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members, I believe that the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly should not be on the agenda today, or should not be adopted for several reasons. First of all, the first reason, which is the significance of the question itself. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not an act to be amended by an emergency procedure, especially when considering the fact that only 41 of the 227 members are being changed. I believe that there are far more important issues for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens who deserve to be on the agenda. The South of Serbia, the burial of Albanian terrorists, the consent of international mentors, but it is kept silent, as well as other issues the government neither asks, nor solves, as there is clearly no knowledge and ability. Another thing or another reason, and that is the real motive of changing the work of the Rules of Procedure, which is to restrict the rights of MPs. Earlier, it was said in a statement by DOS representatives that the entire Rules of Procedure would be amended. Now suddenly only part of the Rules of Procedure changes and what part? In addition to that part, which represents a alignment with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, other amendments are essentially a reduction in the scope of the rights of MPs, a reduction in the possibility of participation in the debate on the draft law in particular, through time frames of presentation and a limitation of the number of debates or a restriction in working with amendments. Experiences from these several previous sessions show that the next practical step may be to reduce the time of Parliament's presentation from five to three minutes. Of course, if the assembly majority decides, as well as decisions are made to cut the number, to reduce the time of the MPs' presentation, when the bill is discussed in principle, from ten to five minutes. It is paradoxical, but unfortunately it is true that the former opposition, the current government and the assembly majority that built the image on democracy, preferably the speech of MPs, is now moving restrictively towards both MPs and the assembly work. Third, the justification for lawmaking is incomplete, ambiguous and incorrect in my opinion. It speaks of the overall work of the Assembly, and only a certain part of the members of the Rules of Procedure is changed. By contrast, provisions that do not comply with the adopted laws, such as part of the Ministry Act, remain in line with the organisation of assembly committees. The argument then does not speak of the adverse consequences that could arise if the Rules of Procedure were not adopted by an urgent procedure. You know it's in article 157. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that it must be explained in writing, which the adverse consequences arise unless any act is adopted. What is new in the work of the Assembly that requires the amendment of the Rules of Procedure to the urgent procedure? The explanation speaks of the need to ensure better and more efficient work of the National Assembly in the coming period. In the degree of grading the quality of the work of the National Assembly so far, the promoter used words better and more efficiently. This unequivocally concludes that the work of the congregation so far was both good and that the congregation had worked effectively. The only thing that is unknown is the period of work of the congregation. If the promoter was referring to the work of the Assembly in the previous meeting, then he is right, because in that period the existing Rules of Procedure, a very democratic Rules of Procedure, which now most DOS narrows and limits. If that assessment is related to the work of the Assembly in the new assembly, then that assessment does not stand in my opinion, because the Assembly has so far not adopted any system-based, comprehensive law, but several laws of only a few members, or several decisions, which have abolished certain rights, certain institutions, or I say that some illegal decisions have been made. I'm going to support this with one example, very specific. The position I took in the debate on the abolition of the TV fee, to practically abolish RTS, was confirmed by no one else to the future director of RTS the next day after the law was passed. As is the view of dispensing and appointing judges except for the work of the expert public, it is also condemned by a number of disallowed judges. Fourth and last, the new Rules of Procedure also contain a proposal on the government's alleged commitment to the National Assembly, which is the position of Article 3. The proposal to submit a report on certain issues, which is in fact the democratic character of the proposal. Why am I talking about the government's alleged obligation? Because the proposal should come from the Assembly Committee, which represents the structure of the Assembly in small. So we have the majority of DOS, most DOS in committees and, of course, the DOS government, and they're going to ask each other questions and answers on behalf of the government and the Assembly. If the government’s responsibility to the Assembly is really wanted, if possible, for the Assembly to receive a report from the Government on issues that MPs are interested in, and not only the majority of parliaments, then it is the right to request a report by the board, it should also be given to parliamentary clubs in the Assembly or a certain number of MPs, 20 - 30 MPs. Otherwise, or under this proposal, only the asked questions will be discussed, and those other important issues, but for the government uncomfortable, can stay away as if they do not exist. A good example of my claim is both the events in Dimitrovgrad and Kladov, as my colleague mentioned... Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... where local self-government doesn't work, where citizens' rights are threatened, where part of the SPS council members are physically abused, and no body reacts, because the Justice Ministry is not responding, the Ministry of the Interior is also not responding, and the government is silent. In the end, the essence of today's work of the Assembly said part of the public information funds last night when today's session announced that it would discuss the Rules of Procedure, I will now quote "which will reduce the number of speakers who can discuss the laws". For all these reasons I have mentioned, I believe that this motion for a decision should not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1291	There is the word of the People's Messenger Gordana Komic, and after that, the People's Messenger Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1292	Ladies and gentlemen, by deciding on the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of our Assembly, four directions of these amendments and additions have been made. The first direction is the language changes which specify certain provisions, and we will probably have a consensus on the need for them. The other direction is to bring this Rules of Procedure into line with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, in the part that it is the Law by which we have all elected, and by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in a work that prescribes who can all be the proposer of acts in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The third direction can be for discussion, with regard to defining the authority of the president of our assembly, assembly committees and the most important, mutual relations between the Serbian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is possible that there are proposals that can improve such an intention and therefore continue this debate. The fourth direction is to edit the course of the session at which the laws are discussed in particular, and according to the amendments submitted and to define the time of the debate of the individual MP. All four directions that change the rules of procedure proposed by amendments and additions are the spirit of a new policy in Serbia. This spirit of new policy implies efficiency, means culture of dialogue, means miles for a public word that is a responsible word and involves dealing with the subject. What you can see is, let's say, it bothers the ear of people who are used to calling parliamentaryism, is a fact that deals with the time MPs deal with this pay phone and their rights. The spirit of new policy is that we all clearly define that we do not only have rights, but also obligations. The spirit of new politics and new modern Serbia is that we want a policy of results, not a policy of statements. What the new Rules of Procedure needs to bring into this assembly is to be bound by the result, not by the reaction of the people who are following this session and who should be satisfied with their own emotional experiences in the sentence - ala (he told him - when he responded or vice versa). That's not the spirit of parliamentaryism. What this new Rules of Procedure should bring into our assembly hall and into the new policy in this country is that we are all building this new modern Serbia together. This implies a reasoned debate and will for the profile of amendments that can also be submitted by MPs of the position or MPs of the opposition, and MPs of the opposition within their own club differently. The question is whether everything that we're trying to do is going to be what the real result is. It is not necessary for anyone in the ruling majority to be afraid of the fact that there will once be an opposition. Of course, there will be opposition once, and of course the opposition will be once again. The bottom line is that this process is taking place responsibly and that it happens by having controlled, responsible and replaceable power. MPs at their public sessions must make their contribution by using a public, responsible word, not what does not belong to the spirit of a parliament as Serbia should deserve, that is, to build it, because it deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1293	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, followed by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1294	Dear Mrs. Comic, you too from the Democratic Party have experienced a round of applause for something Djindjic said... Serbian radicals. However, he said that six years ago, and it was just about freedom of public speech in this congregation. Both Mr Djindjic and Mrs Comic seem to have changed their political stances over the past six years. Today, the DOS assembly majority here is changing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, introducing censorship of the public words of the MPs. You've been thinking about shutting down the TV broadcasts of the assembly sessions. We all know that's what you've been thinking about. You gave it up, but in this way you decided to prevent opposition MPs, and above all Serbian radicals, from criticising your legal proposals. What is the motive of these amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure to the work of the National Assembly? You say, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic says the motive is more effective in the work of the National Assembly, i.e. preventing obstruction in the work of the National Assembly by the opposition. That's what you say, and I say you're not telling the truth. The real motives are this: firstly, your government is unable to come to this House with any quality legal proposal that would arrange any segment of life in this country. Your so-called experts of such legal proposals simply do not know that the concept, secondly, of the situation in the country is catastrophic, both in the national-state sense and in the socio-economic sense. In Serbia, bukti war in the south, Canak rovers across Vojvodina, more than half of the economy is not working, half of your country is on strike. You're counting on us not to talk about these problems, your problems will go away. Well, he won't. You will vote today, you will probably vote this amendment, but you will not prevent us from saying what we think about your legal proposals and the situation in the country. You can limit the time for discussion, you can turn off the sound, you can physically remove us from this room, but you can't stop us from reasonfully criticizing your legal proposals when they're bad, and they'll mostly be bad. This has been shown by these four previous extraordinary congregations, or you cannot prevent us from voting your laws if they are good for the people and the state. You DOS gentlemen are really naive. Do you really think that if you kill every critical word in the country, the people will believe that honey and milk flow? You're doing exactly what the Socialists used to do, even worse. Now you're making some virtual reality of yours, and through the media, through a statement from this congregation and so on. You talk to a fairy tale people, you sing romances, and I think you'll get through the same way the Socialists did.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1295	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic, and after that, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the proposal of the DOS parliamentary group. The vote should regulate the work of the National Assembly and the relationship of our MPs. I think the president of the National Assembly is Mr. Martian, only the first among the equals and that he should represent an example of exemplary and normal behavior. It should, but unfortunately that is not the case, that it has the same attitude towards all MPs in the National Assembly, not to advance, guided only by his known prejudices, distracts the MPs in the work and obligations, and he does so especially to us by the MPs of the SRS. I will support this presentation with arguments, as we Serbian radicals always do. For today’s meeting of the National Assembly, I received no invitation, no material on the basis of which I would prepare for work and discussion at this session. Such a relationship between the president of the Martians is exactly an example of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which clearly sets out the obligation of the President of the National Assembly to inform Members of the National Assembly in good time about the meeting of the National Assembly and to organise the supply of the necessary material for the work and preparation of the MPs. You DOS gentlemen are not meant to do anything for the benefit of the people and the state. At the borders of our country, the eternal enemies of the Serb people are hammering their weapons and killing the Serb enemy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1297	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1298	Today, ladies and gentlemen, we need to discuss and spend unfavorable folk money on such trivial things as. Article 3, where the constitution of the National Assembly -- with your too wise thinking -- is replaced by a new section that reads, confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament. In Article 21, paragraph 5 is added, which reads as follows: "The sitting schedule of Members of Parliament is set in the session hall by parliamentary groups". You could have offered your majority and sat on this gallery upstairs, what are we going to wear, what are we going to eat at the restaurant, etc. If we adopt this, yet the suffering people will benefit from it and will solve all their economic and social problems the next day. One of the objections to the past regime was that all parliaments discussed the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and only the Serb parliament did. What we're discussing here today, and we're drawing on the plight of the people. Your main goal is to prevent the MPs of the SRS from telling the people the truth from the assembly pay phone. The blind man sees the end of his stick. Gentlemen of the DOS, you seem to see less of a blind man, but I hope, I fight and believe, that the Serbian people are watching all of this and that they are increasingly convinced that there is no desire for you to solve in this assembly those problems which are of paramount importance and importance for the survival of the Serbian people and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1299	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the fifth extraordinary session of this House and the session confirms everything that we Serbian radicals have claimed is that this newly established, newly formed DOS government simply doesn't know that the government, does not know that it is exercising that power. The laws that were in the previous session are one of the evidence, and this proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is another throw of dust in the eyes of the people and citizens of Serbia. Obviously, gentlemen, the most successful and best way to get your hands on it is media power. You're not so concerned about this existing Rules of Procedure. You're not so interested in changing. It is in your interest to throw dust in the eyes of the citizens of Serbia, to schedule this assembly for an extraordinary session, one after the other, so that you can present to Serbian citizens through your media "that is, you would exercise power, you would rule, only not give you Serbian radicals, not that opposition". That's the key. That's where you build your successes and the success of your authority. How else to interpret these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly than in this way. Of the 41 proposed members who contain changes and additions, 10 members refer explicitly to the increase in authority of the president of the assembly. What a democracy it is that you propagate when you give so much authority to an individual. The president of the assembly is the first among the equal. The president of the assembly is the speaker who gives the word, the nickname of this pay phone, and that's the essence of his role. Here, in these ten members, it is possible for the President of the Assembly, firstly, with the help of the board to deploy us on benches, where anyone will sit, secondly, to have his own personal secretary, thirdly, that he decides who will be vice president. So, he'll have other than the secretary, maybe he's unhappy with this current, existing one, so man wants to make it possible to replace him. It doesn't shave, it stings. So he doesn't like the secretary, he can replace him. The assembly majority is here to confirm the president's decision. I understand that these proposals have a lot of influence and personal opinion of the current President of the Assembly, because, according to the information I have, he chaired the local self-government, so he transferred the Rules of Procedure from the municipal level to be identical with the Rules of Procedure in the Assembly. But he must understand, too, that this is the parliament in which we were elected by Serbian citizens. This is not at the level of a municipality, so that he acts the way he behaves, like a kabadiah, that he has other than his secretary and his personal secretary. Of course, I don't mean anything by it. I don't think there's any evil intentions behind that when it comes to the secretary, I'm not sure about the president. Secondly, the president of the assembly has the authority to interrupt the speaker, give the speaker a word when he assesses that he has the right to do so, give the MP the right to reply when he assesses that the MP has been called or when he assesses that the party to which the MP belongs has been mentioned. However, the truth works should be acknowledged that in the previous meeting in this same place there was one who thought he was powerful, that he was powerful, that he was strong, that he was strong, that he could not exceed the powers of the Rules of Procedure. And he calmed down over time. However, this is the kind of force that this congregation did not have. Nothing personal, but I guess it's just a reflection and a picture of the coalition he represents. What is most interesting in proposing these amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, you are calling for democracy. Is that the democracy you gentlemen promised in the election campaign? How will you implement democratic principles when you do not respect procedural matters in the congregation? And the procedure is part of congregation democracy. If you're breaking it, then you can't throw dust in people's eyes anymore. Second, Mr. President, please calm down this aid kit. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: What help? ) Right now it's for the legs, maybe you should help some other ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1301	Please be polite.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1302	Why am I decent when he throws me an MP from your coalition? So when he throws out of your coalition, it's polite, and when he casts the opposition, it's rude. You need that criterion...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1303	It's rude to throw, but it's also rude words that you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1304	What words did I use rudely? Helped? But you must understand one thing, gentlemen. The question is, as long as you can rule like this, it's a matter of moment, anyway, when this coalition that you're making up is about to fall apart. Most of you who are sitting in that coalition, who are acting powerfully, arrogantly, who are full of some force and strength, which you express with the number of votes, will be in opposition, and then you will have to work and act in this Rules of Procedure. That's why it's better now, in time, to think, no matter how your leaders think.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1305	The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragan Marsican, president of the Republika Srpska Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our common obligation, the obligations of all Members of Parliament, I think it is not disputed, is to keep in the Rules of Procedure everything that is valid, and in accordance with the practice, in accordance with the circumstances, in accordance with the possibilities for the development of parliamentary democracy, we build the Rules of Procedure to progress, as far as possible, by following the practice and by allowing that practice to move forward. Our common obligation is to keep the public of Parliament's work, to retain and ensure that every parliamentary group can get to know the public about the views of its party, its group, on every issue on the agenda of the Parliament. It is our obligation to work effectively. That word here is interpreted in different ways, but efficiency implies, or at least for me and for those who have submitted this amendment, to reduce the possibility of obstruction of work. What does it mean? Work obstructions? It is the right of the opposition parliamentary parties to make it impossible for parties that have a majority in parliament to, in one easy way, without the influence of the minority, pass laws that are on the agenda. It is their right to even exploit obstruction as one of the methods of not passing any law. It is, of course, so in normal circumstances, when the opposition group participates in parliament's work and then is using obstruction to improve democratic debate in parliament. So it forces the government or the promoter to seek compromise solutions, to find better solutions, and thus contributes to improving Parliament's work. In a situation where you have a group, or you can have a group of irresponsible MPs -- whether they are in opposition or in power, however, they must have a responsibility to the state and the people so that it doesn't sound too large -- in circumstances where you change the regime, when you change one whole system, both politically, economically, and socially, and in all areas, in all areas of life, when you are expected to pass a number of laws, you cannot allow any irresponsible group to disable parliament's work as a supreme legislative body. The existing Rules of Procedure allow it. If circumstances were different, if practice were different, there would be no need to limit time, because there is no violation of the right of the minority, which is mentioned here, which is the essence of democracy, the deprivement of the right to infertile debate. There must be a minority responsibility, just as there must be the responsibility of the majority. It's not democracy the length of exposure, democracy is an argumentary exhibition, participation entirely in parliamentary life. It is not the quality, whether of the same opinion, of the opposite opinion, in which the exposure will last long, but what arguments will be used. This Rules of Procedure should give priority to smartness over language, it needs a smart MP to give priority to the campery. That's the essence of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure should allow the debate to be conducted, but the debate should always end with the adoption of a legal project. It is an interpretation, for which, of course, anyone who advocates parliamentary democracy cannot dispute that something is desirable and that parliament should have. But, let's be realistic, let's answer to ourselves and to the public -- is this the moment and does our parliamentary practice allow impelation? I hope that our parliamentary practice will allow for the further addition of the Rules of Procedure and the introduction of impelation to the Serbian parliament very quickly. And maybe the last one, although I think I've said everything, and the time for discussion is running out, and that's about what I wanted to say -- so there's room for the Rules of Procedure to be completed. The correct observation is that the Rules of Procedure loses this part of the discussion in particular, but it brings to one, if you will, a logical relationship with the right to debate, democratic debate, the quality of the debate and the efficiency of Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1307	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think after a speech like this, Mr. Marsican remains nothing more than to resign as president of the National Assembly. Why? The National Assembly doesn't deserve such a capable and intelligent president. Secondly, Mr. Martian does not know the essence of parliamentary democracy. He's attacking obstruction. In that parliament where obstruction is forbidden, there is no democracy. Parliamentary obstruction, obstruction of the opposition, is the essence of democracy, the essence of parliamentaryism. We have never had a case of excessive obstruction in this House. There was a case of a Democratic Party that had more than 1,000 amendments. It's obstruction, but it's not exaggerated. That's what you can mate for. The obstruction would be that we all jump here now, sing fighting songs and prevent parliament from being ambushed. It's already something that's exaggerated obstruction. Excessive obstruction would be putting needles and nails in the seat of the ruling majority, for example. It may be an excessive obstruction, but it can be mated in an adequate way. In the Italian Parliament, radical MPs, trying to prevent a certain law, changed day and night after night, read the phone book, read the Bible. No one thought to remove them from the pay phone because they are not holding the agenda, or to limit their duration of the discussion. In the Japanese Parliament, a case of the MP was known, who walked to the speaker for an hour and forty minutes from his place in the hall. It never occurred to anyone to rush him, or to deny him the right to speak, because he's too slow to move. You are here asking parliament to participate in your revolution. You can't stand that there are people here, MPs who are against your revolution, against your change of system. We are not against the change of government, the people have the right to change power, and if God gives, the people will change power more and more frequently. But you're changing the system, and what's in the previous system is wrong, which you have to change -- the Constitution, the system, it's the Constitution. You haven't gone out with the initiative yet. We're afraid of that initiative of yours. For when ye change the Constitution, and Vojvodina goes, and Kosovo goes, and the district of Raška goes, all goes away. We know what's waiting for us, but you still haven't dared to go out with those projects. You are now creating conditions here that the opposition cannot oppose your ideas. It bothers you where opposition MPs are sitting in the hall, and you forgot when the Democratic Party of Serbia only had seven MPs, the time will come and will not have seven, that both Vojislav Kostunica and Vlad Batic were pushing to sit among the ministers of the Socialist government, here in the first and second order. The first and second order has always been reserved for the government. They pushed to infiltrate the socialist government ministers, to be as close as possible. (Glass from O.R.: And Jocic. And Jocic, if I don't remember Jocic, I can't remember everything. I remember these... Before Kostunica and Batic clashed, and parted, they formed two parties. Therefore, Mr President, when you do not respect this Parliament, when you think that there are irresponsible groups in this House here, you must first prove what this irresponsibleness is and show your next moves that this Parliament does not really deserve you, because I do not see how you have the cheeks in the future to sit and chair this House, after such ugly words as you have spoken to this speaker. (Employer Tomislav Nikolic asks for a word in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1309	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1310	You've injured Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, so I had to call Article 99, because you didn't give me the right to reply, and I have it according to the position of the first, because you were insultingly expressing yourself to other MPs. I recognized myself here, Mr. President, yes, ladies and gentlemen, I don't read the paper during the National Assembly session, I actively participate in the work of the National Assembly. That's why the president accuses me of being an irresponsible group. I am writing amendments to the proposals you submit, discussing these amendments, and for the President of the Assembly, I am one irresponsible MP, who belongs to an irresponsible group of MPs in this assembly. What should I do, Mr. President, to keep the session quiet, like all your MPs, and then to be a true MP for you, whom the people for this reason sent to the assembly. I think you should stay out of it to separate us, Mr. President, that's what you do when you have meetings with your parliamentary group or with representatives of other parliamentary groups, who want to participate in this game of yours. I've been a MP for nine years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1311	Is this a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1312	Well, I guess you were listening to what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1313	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1314	In these nine years, anyone can tell me that I wasn't written enough, that I was rude, that I was stupid, but nobody can tell me that I wasn't working in this National Assembly and nobody can say that I was rigorous towards anyone in this National Assembly. And now to find someone who has slept through nine years of fighting Milosevic, now, on the wings of the revolution, to sit here - and what are you, who didn't even drink at that time, that you are laughing, that neither your wings have grown up, but you have papers, my dear MPs, where are your scars from the conflict with the Socialists, where are your prison days, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, where is your persecution, where is the loss of a job of family members? [[Laughter in O.R.]] What do you know about it? You might want to think about it a little bit more. But please, Mr. President, take one dignified role in leading this National Assembly, do not separate MPs to good and bad. In public and you, and your MPs, say that we are obstructing the work of the National Assembly. When the session begins, none of you are able to prove, first of all, that we are obstructing, and then that this obstruction is something negative in the country. Labour efficiency - solve production problems, solve agriculture, solve problems in southern Serbia. Right here you will solve the efficiency of the work by banning opposition MPs from discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1315	There's a word from MP Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1316	I'm not going into this guy's discussion at all. You know what, a smart man and a second is enough to tell. I don't think that, as Mr. Seselj says, you should read newspapers for this speaker, I don't think books should be read, and I don't think Bibles should be read. This speaker has to be done, said and criticised. That's what it stands for. However, the Parliament itself, the parliament itself, is not the only place to work. There is also something called congregation committees. That's where smart people talk and talk about certain laws. We, the Democratic opposition of Serbia, and the SPS, which is working with us, are discussing certain laws here. Radicals are gone, they weren't here now, they weren't here four years ago. Whether they don't know what to say or not they're not professional enough to discuss it on certain issues, I don't know. But the Serbian Parliament is not a talkative room. There's no need to talk about taking time. It has to produce something, and the product is the law. The product is norms, according to which Serbian citizens will live and work. I do not agree with the SRS's claim that the Serbian Parliament should speak out of the blue. I do not agree with the claim that the obstruction of the Assembly is the right criterion for democracy. Obstruction is destruction, detachment, failure to reach the target. I have to point to my esteemed colleague Vojislav Seselj, and to an MP and professor, to a maximum he knows well. It was written by Serbian lawyer Valtazar Bogisic, and she says, "You can't even serve your rights, while others can't do harm and boredom." There is no absolute freedom and absolutely right, there is no - everything is allowed for me. There's something that needs to be limited. It may be allowed for people who live on their own and have no restrictions. However, when a man lives in society, especially if it is Serbia's most legislative body, then he has to get involved, which is the rules of procedure. I say again, I've spoken for over a second, but a smart man is enough for a second, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1317	Ladies and gentlemen, I was well appointed here by Mr. Jocic - and the professor, and the MP, and the lawyer, etc. Since you've already unlawfully taken away my teacher's calling, I expect you now to take away my degree in Law School and the function of the MP. You can do anything by the same criteria, because it's the true nature of your authority. That's not what Tito was doing either. Tito didn't remove any professor from the university decree. When he could not from the Faculty of Philosophy, with the help of his informers at the university itself, including Veljko Korac, the most pronounced, then the Communist Serbian Parliament brought a back of specialis, a special law to remove them. You're doing it with decrees. You can now rule out the opposition. You can vote here that today is not Tuesday, but Saturday. You can do it. There are some quasiparliaments that can serve you as an example of reputation. There's a lot of them. But then don't convince us it's democracy. It's not democracy. There's never been a case of excessive obstruction here. Never, not even when the opposition mostly opposed the policy company law in 1992 and when opposition MPs went out and spoke for hours, the Paroška hour and 40 minutes. And it wasn't too much. Secondly, the government always has a way to adequately pair up the opposition's obstruction. So the session could be all night. You're most of them, but you're in a hurry, you're running somewhere, you're running, you're not sitting. You must endure the opposition. If you can't stand the opposition, if your opposition is unbearable, then shut it down. Because the opposition is here to bother you. Not to sit down and negotiate, but to disturb you, to limit your will, to use the power of public opinion, to stop you in your own will. You're saying we're going to congregation committees. Well, you didn't give it to us. We wanted to at first, but you didn't agree to the proportional composition of the board and advance to reach an agreement on all the assembly committees and other bodies. You wanted selectively, as you will. We didn't want any part of it. What do we do on your boards now? You've been giving us furniture from the MP's office, computer, TV, and after hours. That's what you use. You have fired our advisor, this unshaved secretary of yours, allowing the secretary general to come messy to the sessions, unshaved. He fires an adviser from our MP group, we have the right to do so by the Rules of Procedure. She was formerly a deputy secretary general, has never been released in the Assembly. You're doing it. You haunt people, you leave them out of work, you launch lies through your media. All the media is yours now. Now it still bothers the opposition in the only place where it can be expressed and where it can say something and oppose you. It's the only place. After this place comes the street. Are you going to provoke the street? It's the only way to provoke the street, if the opposition can't get an expression in parliament, they'll come elsewhere. And no authority is all-powerful, and as our people say, it hasn't burned down to anyone until dawn. Always keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1318	There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1319	Dear People's MPs, I've been in this House since 1992. What we're experiencing right now, we haven't experienced anywhere. In this parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has also been beaten, it has been banned, the militia has entered with the pendrels to kick us out, TV broadcasts have been cut off, but they have never banned us from speaking behind a pay phone. That's exactly what you're doing right now. Mr. President, in order for the MP to be ready for a point, he has to get the material in time. We got that material last night and prepared as much as we could. What exactly do you want with the delivery of that material? What do you want to hide? Or you think we're illiterate and we can't quickly understand your intentions and your interest. I would like to say a few more things about this Rules of Procedure, which you are about to adopt today, which is extremely destructive and which destroys the right to speak to the MPs and the right of MPs for what the people have chosen him for. You're violating not only human rights, but you're violating parliamentary rights. What can I say about this proposal of yours, whose proposal is without honor, cheek, morals and a shred of democracy. In this assembly hall, it has already been called the Tolaga Rules of Procedure. Are you afraid, Mr. President, that we here at the assembly pay phone will say that the bread will now be ten dinars, dark by four hours, etc. Don't be afraid of it. The people know it better. Today you will probably adopt this and definitely destroy the least democratic status of the opposition in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1320	There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we can see, today the government in exile has escaped, probably fearing obligations, which should be made by adopting amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which should be the control of the government's work, so they believe, since they are not here, that the Rules of Procedure will also provide for them to rule without being seen. So the invisible government is actually the same as this Rules of Procedure, which is proposed by the DOS Parliamentary Group. Already in the constitution of the National Assembly, it could be expected that rigorous changes would take place in the Rules of Procedure, primarily because Prime Minister Djindjic promised that the government's work would be transparent in the exposé. This transparency should be such as to ensure full secrecy from MPs in the National Assembly. That is why the Rules of Procedure, which is proposed here, guarantees this "transparency". In the constitution of the National Assembly, it was observed that DOS MPs were very nervous. They received certain tasks, which they could not perform immediately at the beginning. The illustrations, for their part, bothered them that SRS MPs had moved to places where they had found a place and found a hard nut, two radical ladies, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natasa Jovanovic. When they were gonna kick us out of those places, they were like tigers. They opposed a group of aggressive MPs from the DOS, who retreated, bent their tails and fled. [[Laughter in O.R.]] So, in the case of these MPs, we can also talk today about the government, which must have led its tails and disappeared in an unknown direction. Today we are bringing in a Rules of Procedure, which needs to protect the government from MPs from the opposition. That's why I think every time I go out for this pay phone, I'll welcome the government to exile. I've done it a few times, even when I have opportunities in particular. Of course, the President of the Assembly will therefore warn me, but I am telling the truth. The government is never in this session, because this is not her assembly. They are entwined and believe that the parliamentary majority of DOS can vote any law, even if it is cowboy. Speaking of cowboy democracy and the law, it is noted that it has stepped into this parliament as well. She stepped right after the October 5th revolution. With that example, DOS MPs continued to harass, halabu, arlauch, just as they did in the streets. Of course, that example, which is in America's democracy, is not unknown, but I just have to mention some things, that on that mold you actually want to build a parliamentary life in this assembly. Namely, Indian reserves, bans on black people using public traffic and other public spaces are synonymous with DOS authorities and DOS lawmakers. Also, the Serbian Radical Party and other political insinuators, opposition MPs probably want to be, I would not say they send them to Pioneer Park, but up there on the terrace, because you still need them for some time to make you a quorum, if anything else. You need the quorum because it is you who do not respect the Rules of Procedure. But the failure of this Rules of Procedure is the sole culprit of the President of the Assembly. And if he were to apply it, this rules of procedure would be excellent and could be properly and well done here. Therefore, at the very end, this Rules of Procedure, which you will adopt today from DOS, is a huge step of unanimity and whether or not you want to, is an attack, which is the continuation of your revolution, which can only be stopped by the old saying - who is bickering... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1322	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Zechariah, Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1323	An extraordinary fifth session of the Assembly is scheduled for today, an important and very important session. Normally, it is important for DOS gentlemen, because their goal is to eliminate in a very nice and cultural way in front of their constituents the opposition. Article 82. The Rules of Procedure order the time to schedule each session. There was no respect for that time. Why? The Rules of Procedure, which came into my hands on February 26, 2001, represent an unheard precedent, as this issue of the work of every congregation, including ours, cannot be resolved in one day for the benefit of its own. It would've been human if we'd gotten all that in time and as MPs, we worked it out very well. Give your true vision of it for us a quality job. 158 members were put on the review. This job deserves at least a minimum of time to see it all, 227 members of the current Rules of Procedure have been put before us as a new kind of work. Why does it seem today? Do we know the Serbian radicals' reason for this way of working? It's not important to you, gentlemen of the DOS, what we're about to say, or what kind of objections we have. It's enough for you to just be present in a limited number, because you're not even able to secure the quorum. And the people are judges, and when all the people see it, you get an allergy that's been following you for days. Let every MP use his right to be provided by the Rules of Procedure, which is the time. Why are you afraid of our steps, why do you gentlemen not respect us when we go out for this pay phone, you're looking for a reason in you? Article 82 of the New Rules of Procedure proposes when the congregations are organized and maintained. I suggest that congregations are not scheduled during religious and state holidays. I mean Christmas, Easter, etc. I believe this Rules of Procedure should endure changes, but not in such a dreary and urgent way. I know the Assembly needs to make a large number of laws, but it should also be known that every new law needs to undergo a quality congregation analysis, not just a passage through the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1324	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1325	Dear People's MPs, I'm not the only one, I'm probably not the only one yesterday, or when we got a call for this session the other day predicting the course of today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It was known that we would hear again similar mourners and concerns about preserving the democratic spirit, which reflected the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia. Please, the opposition MPs actually want to present themselves to the public as the great defenders of something of the most precious that every society has, and that is the sense and meaning of democracy. Late, gentlemen. Late. Too late, because you chose the wrong moment when you'd be an opposition. You were supposed to be an opposition when fateful decisions were made in this same National Assembly. You, as a rule, almost kept your mouth shut. As this session will be brought into the record and history, the archives of the National Assembly, so have the previous sessions, which show that large and capital issues, when you were most of them and made hats to this people, were completed in 1999 and 2000 in three hours, almost without discussion. Then you had no need at all, Mr. People's MPs so-called. The opposition, to make some of your arguments. You passed the Information Act, the University Act, the Law on the Use of Agricultural Land in 2000, a stupid and stupid law, which in no letter could find any contact with life. It's all gone without discussion. There's a saying, People's MPs, dear friends, that says, "Live to me, Todor, make a speech." It's the essence and motive of your step-up here, not the interest of the people. That's exactly why you're the most frequently warned MP group not to stick to the subject, I'm not going to say, because of the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1326	Please stop throwing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1327	As well as to step away from the agenda, because you simply have no arguments. Secondly, what your coming here for the National Assembly is not the interest and well-being of the people, but the desire for some promotion, to present yourself as some speakers, orators, etc. The people read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1328	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1329	I have to tell you, I'm on my way to at least two or three villages every week, so I can tell you that even your former sympathies and members are very bad and unfavourable for you, and you'd have to consider that, because, without any laws, you won't be in the next election of the National Assembly. I think that every MP group has enough space and ways to express its real interest, to make good decisions. How and in what way? That's why there are MP clubs. Under any law, why don't we agree, yes, that law has bad sides, there are good sides, they can fix these things and come out, say, two or three MPs to speak. No, I don't. That's not your wish. You, dear gentlemen, wish the opposition MPs to actually rehabilitate, how you are the true defenders of democracy. I ask you, where was your loop, where your courage was in 1998, 1999. Please, for three hours in this national parliament, there was a debate on the proposal made by Ahtisaari. Three hours. You've been lying on the ore. Another question about Kosovo, yes, gentlemen, you've capitulated, gentlemen. You're not a little bit, you haven't had the guts to oppose the existing regime that has brought this country into disaster. That's the point. As the president of the National Assembly of the Martians said, if you were truly guided by the desire that this people's, high home make smart, good, close decision to the people, there would be no need to change this...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1330	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1331	I'm just finishing this Rules of Procedure, but it's not your wish. You want to parade with empty speeches, which the people don't want to listen to. He really doesn't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1332	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing DOS has some of those distinguished characters from Titus's time in their ranks, because they're your best ID. We remember the time when Zaharija Trnavcevic advocated the agreed economy, salted the minds of the peasants, and in the Serbian government we realized how big problems were in the country and in agriculture, precisely because of decades of application of that concept that so warmly this gentleman preached and promoted on state television. In Tito's time, we couldn't open our eyes from him. He jumped on tractors, pimped his heifers, propagated artificial insemination, taught the peasants how to plow. Now he's found himself among you DOS as one of the top ideologists. He would now force MPs to apply the principles of the agreed economy here. Why do we need the assembly, what we need to discuss, representatives of the parliamentary groups can meet and agree on everything. Of course, it's not bad. It's not bad. It's not bad. It's not bad. We know from earlier times that during the night, the socialists here from the minority became most of them. Now all those who participated in those shops are now all in DOS. Now they're all Democrats. I had to go to prison every week to watch this man on TV, propagating the self-government concept of agriculture. The prison administration only allowed that program. [[Applause radically.]] Nothing else could be seen. [[Laughter]] Now he's giving me a lecture on democracy. When I look at that man, I'm afraid that maybe Tito didn't get up. Ladies and gentlemen, that may seem funny to you, it's not funny, it's tragic. It's tragic for you to preach a new democracy from the mouth of Titus's staff. These preachers know what Tito's democracy looked like, they've been having a good time, and they're teaching you. With this project of amending Rules of Procedure, you are, in fact, gradually returning us, quietly back to the period of Tito's democracy. In Tito's democracy, it was prescribed that MPs would vote, when they would applaud...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1334	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1335	Woe to him who stands up to him. It says science that dinosaurs are long gone. It's probably science right. Basically, dinosaurs are long gone, but not all of them are extinct. Some have strayed into this congregation. Dinosaurs from Tito's communist time to introduce a new DOS democracy. That DOS democracy can't step forward, step forward to offer something new. He's going back to that old man. In the past term, the SRS was the only one to vote against the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Plan, the only one. We were determined to oppose NATO's pact and today we are against the NATO Pact and the Americans. Your DOS has brought the NATO Pact to power. That's the difference. In the last term, when the state television was disrupting the direct transmission of Dragan Vesenov, however much we were even then we were against Vesenov today, but we were publicly protesting this distraction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1336	Mr. Seselj, the time for replica is three minutes, I will be forced to take your word. I've warned you twice already.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1337	Here, I'll be right there. So, the SRS and its MPs often came out here while they were in power, on the occasion of few opposition MPs, on the fierce verbal duels, but we never did anything to prevent them from speaking and being equal with the other MPs. Remember, our two members of the board of directors of the RTS then left the board of directors, and Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, due to the undemocratic behaviour of state television. The current state television is incomparably worse than the previous one. That TV is now with the DOS' personal seal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1338	The replica was reported by MP Branislav Ivkovic and then by Zaharija Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1339	I volunteered for the replica because it was mentioned here that the Socialists over the night had become the majority of the minority. Just to say that this is a perfectly normal form of work and potential co-operation in every parliament, I believe that it will be very soon in this too, and that the parties found in parliament according to the will of the Serbian citizens have absolutely the right, according to the state of the country, to the common goals, in the interest of Serbian citizens to join together. The SPS, which had 123 MPs, defined itself for co-operation with another parliamentary party and formed the majority and formed the government, which worked very well and stable over the long term. With regard to the Ahtisaari plan - Chernomidin I want to say one more quality, it is a great thing that MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had the right to consider the Ahtisaari - Chernomidin plan, to say their opinions, both for and against. We have no idea what's in the plan for South Serbia. We don't know what's going on, and we're dating a law that keeps the law going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1340	Replica, Zechariah Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1341	So, indeed, this session today and the previous exhibition are saying how appropriate and necessary it is to change the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are missing in one part. What can't, and it couldn't have been any congregation in the world, to somehow prevent people from going out for this pay phone booth to read phone books, to talk about everything and everything because they don't have arguments. Mr. Vojislav Seselj talked about how he was forced into prison to watch that show of mine. He didn't learn anything. He didn't learn anything. You'd learn at least a few things, which is that in Srem, as he once advised, a few months ago, you shouldn't plant kiwis and other plants, but what works best in Srem. He didn't learn anything. "Nothing, don't learn anything" "that's what she knew before." "Go, go, go." So that, my dear friends, is one painful, one sad, one unpleasant proof that some educated people, with some titles etc. They don't come out here to be constructive, to build, to remove a lot of what you've just left for us to inherit, wherever you touch, it's a hole from the problems... You laugh, you don't even know what you've done. She doesn't even know. Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1342	Please don't throw away, Mr. Nikolic, I'm warning you... (Alexander Vukic, from the place--As you are not ashamed, all the time earning, not warning anyone)... Well, not like this. There are measures, though. There are measures and limits, after all. Replica, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1343	Ladies and gentlemen, I must express my sincere regret that I did not allow myself to be raised in prison. Mr. Zechariah Trnavcevic was in my superior program. But when I was in prison, I didn't want to listen to prison rule. That's why I went to solitarys a lot. I didn't want to do anything in prison, and I didn't want to accept their over-experienced class, and I didn't want to watch shows that were generally mandatory. I was also punished for Mr. Zahari Trnavčević in prisons. I didn't like him. I couldn't listen to nonsense. For me, everything that was titoistic was stupid. I was a rebel against titoism, and he cheated on the peasants in Serbia, referred them to the Green Plan, went from lamb to pig, was known as the commander of the lamb brigades, arranged various shows, with the personal benefit that he derived from all of this. And, of course, he admired everything else to Tito. Now that he admired another Tito, I don't mind. Many other DOSs have admired, so today they are prominent Democrats, because today there is a democracy that Tito has always advocated. But you don't need someone who showed their democratic beliefs in Tito's time and was at the height of fame as a regimeal, titoistic journalist, that those of us who have a great... What's the matter? [[You can't hear a comment from the gym.]] Short what?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1344	Don't get it, be nice...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1345	There's no reason, is there something bothering you? Now, you should, well remind me, Mr Nikolic, take care of both the Constitution and the law, and other regulations, to bring the Rules of Procedure in line with these highest acts and your conduct. There are a number of people among you who have been elected deputy ministers, ministerial assistants, ministers' advisers, and are still MPs. It can't be done by the Constitution, by law, and it never could be done before. Instead of solving this problem, you ask here how he and this one can, here maybe Vesic, he's a federal minister's advisor, how he can be an MP. There's a deputy minister here. I don't know their names yet. What? You need additional lessons now, but after the session let the additional teaching be held by Zaharija Trnavcevic, he is in charge of reviewing the ideological-political character. [[You can't hear a comment from the gym.]] I was not able to be raised in prison by Mr. Trnavčević's methods (president: time), and you don't need much training, because you as a chili titoists know what your path is and how to walk that way, leaving naturally dirty clues behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1346	Last line, here you go. (Some MPs resent) Mr. Trnavevich, the objection is appropriate. Mr. Trnavcievich, it's my fault. Two lines of replica have been completed and I can't give you my word, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1347	I'm still gonna say...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1348	Please, Mr. Trnavciæevci...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1349	A schooled man could be ashamed of lying and talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1350	Please, Mr. Trnavci. The emissary leaves the pay phone. Gentlemen, since it is 14 hours and 20 minutes, I suggest we make a decision on the continuation of the session at 15.50 hours. I'm asking you to make that clear. We have a quorum. Please let us be clear about this proposal. For 149 against two, there were no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 155 MPs are present. We'll continue at 15 hours and 50 minutes. [[After break - 16.05 lessons]] I suggest we continue our work. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We're continuing the debate. We stopped by giving a word to the MP Zlatan Jovanovic. After him will be spoken the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1352	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is about the most important act governing the way the MPs work in this congregation home. The material is extremely extensive, which is proposed here, we received mostly during today's day, an hour before the work of the Republic of Serbia Assembly began. I wonder and also ask the president of the National Assembly - is this a time of one or two hours enough for one such material to be studied and to participate in the discussion and decide? Mr. President, I have a direct question for you. I wonder if you have read the existing Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? I mean Article 82, which discusses how to convene the National Assembly session and how to inform MPs about the session. I'm not informed of this session. I heard it from the media, better said from your radio. I don't think you've read that article. If you have read, then our session today may be considered, from my point of view, illegal, or it may be considered a conscious attempt and a desire for one part of the opposition MPs not to appear at today's session of the National Assembly. Part of the MPs I contacted today confirms this position of mine. They weren't informed of today's session either. Just this morning, some DOS MPs, Mr Simonovic, confirmed to me that they had not received material for this session. Therefore, Mr. President, either read the Rules of Procedure or replace the Secretary of the National Assembly, because it does not inform you exactly and precisely about how to call the National Assembly, and how to inform the MPs. As for the very proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will make a few remarks that I have managed to educate for this short time since I received the material. Article 9 of this proposal, paragraph 1, reads: "The candidate for the secretary of the National Assembly proposes the president of the National Assembly". I am interested in whether the secretary is voted in the assembly session or in some other way, because nowhere in this proposal has the secretary of the National Assembly and his deputy been identified. Article 21 Proposal, paragraph 1, indent 6, reads: The Administrative Board shall determine the sitting schedule of Members of Parliament in the Assembly Hall. This really doesn't need to be commented. I guess it's pretty clear to everyone in this country that even first-class teachers don't set a schedule for champions when they get to school on the first day. Article 23. Proposal: How to convene the session and start the session. I am interested in whether the President of the Assembly will respect the new Rules of Procedure, which you are likely to vote today, if he does not respect this existing one for the past month, as we have assured ourselves. It has also been said that proposals for amending the agenda must be submitted no later than three days before the start of the session of the Assembly. Article 35 regulates the way amendments are delivered by MPs. It has been said that no later than three days before the beginning of the session, amendments to certain legislative proposals on the agenda of the sitting should be submitted. I believe that members of the 25th and 35th are in collegiate with Article 82, where the president can convene a session of the National Assembly within a period of less than seven days. This is Article 82's second position. I wonder if this is the minimum time to call for a session in another way, because there is no such provision here, which means there is a danger that the president of the National Assembly tends to use this attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1353	Mr. Jovanovic, I remind you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1354	Thus, it can use Article 82(2) to convene a session of the National Assembly within a period shorter than three days, thus excluding the possibility of Members to intervene on the agenda and on submitted proposals for laws and other decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1355	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk a lot more about this Rules of Procedure when the debate is in particular, because tonight I have advocated to study your proposals in detail and to first find out what was easy to figure out, what was the purpose of these changes, and then write something that would be acceptable to reasonable and normal people in the National Assembly. But in principle, although these changes in the Rules of Procedure are pompously announced, represented as a revolution, a conflict with those who do not understand what the work of the National Assembly is, a conflict with obstruction, we today only have partial amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. One of the reasons why you did not submit a proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, and I should have, and I think that every new assembly of the National Assembly needs to adopt a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, one of the reasons I repeat, is that then we would have the right to submit amendments to all those members who are not acceptable from our point of view, from the point of view of opposition MPs. The second reason is that you can use the existing Rules of Procedure, of course, if you insult him. This Rules of Procedure, where you are now intervened, has already been reviled once, this Rules of Procedure was originally adopted in 1993 in the National Assembly of Serbia, on my proposal. In 1994, the parliamentary majority, made up of the SPS and New Democracy, has already denied one part of the right of MPs to this Rules of Procedure, which represents amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, and today you are preparing to complete the work. I understand the leaders of DOS, and I understand the young MPs from DOS. They don't know what it looks like when a man is in opposition. They think this is for most of the time. And they're very bored, they're very upset with the opposition MPs talking, maybe even when they're turning the same theme in hundreds of different ways, but I'm surprised by the senior MPs, some of whom went out for a pay phone today, and I'm surprised by the DOS leaders -- I'm surprised by Kostunica, Djindjic, and "alpha and omega" DOS, Batic, or should I say, JULDOS, Vladan Batic. They surprise me, because they know very well what the dictatorship of most people looks like, they wear it on their backs. They know very well how hard they have put forth for this speaker to convince the MP that the MP should be heard, that only the MP working on the bill is good, and that the MP not being touched by the bill is very bad. It used to be funny to observe a huge number of SPS MPs, none of whom come forward during the session. Today the situation has changed, today DOS MPs are doing exactly what the SPS MPs have accused, that they are not interested in the debate, that they have come to wait for when to raise their hands, to vote, and that it would be very appropriate for them to raise their hand as soon as possible. Preferably, at 10:15, to make amends, to talk in the morning, to begin the debate, to end immediately and to vote immediately. And it's not good for parliament or for the state. You'll get mutilated bill proposals. I have had opportunities in this congregation to be an MP for the ruling majority and minority. I knew when the bill wasn't good. I knew when opposition MPs were absolutely right. I also knew when opposition MPs, at a time when I was in opposition, were absolutely right, and sometimes I did not vote for their proposals, because they treated the Serbian Radical Party as someone who was there by accident. You'll get bad laws sooner, you've got a bad secretary for legislation in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a woman who's entered the government by nepotism, not by expertise, and she should know legislative matter best. He should be an expert, not a lawyer who graduated, but he has no idea what the bill should look like. Well, you saw the laws from last session. Did this look like proposals delivered by a serious government? I've advocated the amendments affecting you, trying to stop you from conducting the dictatorship of the majority here, and 126 votes don't mean that it can really vote. I am convinced that this is the Rules of Procedure, that these changes are directed solely against the MPs of the SRS. The most we've done in this conference, we haven't negotiated anything with you, which would be uncivil. Someone said the Serbs would freeze their smile on their faces. I think you've arranged for the strains to prevent radicals from making their views out here, using a pay phone, eyes to face with the public. There are no obedient media here, there are no sold souls, there are no journalists, there are only MPs, speakers and the public. From here, on direct transmission, no one can interpret you and we will use this pay phone as long as it is possible for the MP to speak. We won't even be interested in whether there's a TV feed. I advise you not to end them and not to banish parliamentaryism on the street. But if you abolish them and bring in an even more rigorous Rules of Procedure, you will not prevent SRS MPs from discussing the proposals of the law, so that they can also represent their programme. I'll talk about the rest in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1357	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mr. Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, media preparations have already been made, and the people have already been told that this will be a new, democratic Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, as Mrs Comic, who will say with a new policy, a new mile, someone, some new wonders are being brought in, something bad is being erased and abolished, and something new and good for MPs and people is being brought in today in the Assembly. The truth works, and the public works, no norm, which contains your draft rules of procedure, or amendments and additions, is any democratic norm, no democratic provision whatsoever. Everything, from the first to the last, except for those language editions, which I will speak of later, is restrictive, rigorously restrictive, and there is not one that gives greater authority to the MPs or any right to the MPs, or any single norm. Whom do you want from the lawyers, Mr. Sabic, will Mr. Jocic, will Mr. Jovanovic go out to read me one of the only norms they have written, to which MPs receive some right greater than what you had before? There's not one. Those rights that the MPs had, now rigorous restrictions have been reduced to the point of abolishing something that was the essence of democracy in our country, the elemental democracy. It can't be said that until the extremes, the extreme borders were developed, but the essence of parliamentary democracy was to implement the principle of "Audioatur et alter pars" to hear the other side and possibilities of replicas, the reply to the replica - so-called. A double. And you want to end it with this Rules of Procedure. I have to say to the public that there's no more right to reply to the replica. So there is only a replica, and that is, if someone is directly mentioned or directly, its function and it is said in an offensive tone. So he's trying in every way to freeze the discussion in this House. This is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is due to be completed in 15 minutes or in an hour. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is the most legislative body, the Supreme Legislative Body of this country, and there must be a very different work. If the question arises, what is good and one of the only MPs of this assembly, except that you will get the result of the possibility that radicals do not go out to your replicas, that they are less suitable and that you have fewer problems. Okay, we understand that's it, but tell that to the people. Don't tell the people five days before the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to tell fairy tales about the magnificent Rules of Procedure, about how it's some kind of new democratic fluid, the new policy flows, we're not going to have any more old politics, etc. What's wrong with the last four sessions? What was wrong with that? Is it because we criticized, that you don't like what we say? You want to put an end to what we're saying, to forbid it? You can do it without the Rules of Procedure, you can do it by some other act. Gaša Knezevic made a decree, although he is an extraordinary professor, and Seselj is a regular, to get him out of college, so you, too, can make a decree, there is no opposition, what will be done to you and over, and all the problems are solved. As for the language changes some have spoken of, this language editorial was done disastrously. Please all MPs, look at Article 27, on which the amendment is written, you will smile sweetly, I suppose. The word "everyone" is completely unnecessary, pointless, and it's not even a pure kind of pleonism, but it's put in there without any need, and it's not even known what it's about. We will also have opportunities to speak clearly about all these details because we have submitted amendments. I will show you that these professional services, which have been consulted, are not able to write this four-word card in writing, not counting the name and last name. They don't know where to write a little, they don't know where to write a big letter. It's, look at people, really amazing. And then you tell us about professional services, whose demands have been accepted in one way or another. I think there's something else here. The rigorously restrictive rules of procedure are being adopted because of something else, due to the fact that in Serbia, living is becoming increasingly difficult. And indeed, more and more difficult in every respect, in a political sense, national terms, threatens national disaster in both southern Serbia and northern Serbia. No one familiarises the National Assembly with the so-called Covic plans, we don't talk about it here, we don't know, but it's important to know it through state television and some other media, it translates into Albanian, so before the Albanians know it from Serbian lawmakers. And many other things, not to mention that there is no electricity in Serbia, that there is no debate in this, that there is a strike in Serbia by educators, health workers, and that because of those promises that you made to them. That's the point. (One voice: it's time.) You don't have to be impatient about it for one minute. It only shows you and confirms my words, because every word you say hurts, which is different from what you think. You think that smile or ridicule is something to solve your problems. You won't. They're too serious to handle things that way. And in the Assembly it is necessary to discuss, to talk. Here, once again, who wants me to call him, come out for a pay phone right now to read me that one single norm, which, apart from the language editorials, is not restrictive. I say there's not one. (President: I remind you of your time. ) So, the bottom line is a global scam. While the people live hard, while the people struggle, we will distract them to talk about new liquids, new politics, new rules of procedure, etc. Don't let the Vlachs figure it out, so they can talk about key problems in Serbia, and that's what all the country's media has learned. They're all going to talk, and they're going to do the hack, and they're going to arrest one of them. What are some going to do, ask that question, when they let Milanovic go today or tomorrow, I hear they're going to let him go today or tomorrow. Who's gonna be able to explain why he was in jail for 20 days. (President: Mr. Wolf, I warn you during and on the agenda. I'm about to finish. I invite you to take another look at the Rules of Procedure. Those who haven't been able to look at him will forgive me by preside over what I'm about to say, we got this last night, and we didn't have enough time to prepare ourselves. As much as we've seen at first glance, we've written so many amendments. But since I know that a good part of the congregation's majority hasn't looked at the Rules of Procedure, please look at exactly what's going on and what's going on. He may change so much of his opinions, unless the opposition's abolition decision has already been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1359	He has the right to the replica of MP Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1360	Please, I appeal to the common sense of everyone, the socialists, the radicals, the DOS and everyone else. Let's not torture those who look at us. The Rules of Procedure are just a small, small act, which will arrange how we work. Believe me, we can't put the principle of obstruction on us. We can't put the principle of talking, uninterrupted, tortured by written speeches, 45 on this side and 45 on the other side, that we've been arguing all day, two days. Guys, this is costing. Come on, please... These four microphones are not exhibitionism. [[Applause]] Serbia is in a very difficult position because it has been abandoned for ten years. Whoever was leaving doesn't matter either. It's important that we, my dear friends, and you, the radicals that you've fallen, and all the others who will survive, find a way out of this. This isn't a battlefield, my friends, this assembly isn't everything. I think you've figured it out. I don't want to talk anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't expect Mr. Jocic to behave this incorrectly, especially since we were both MPs in 1993 and I remember what he was saying. And especially because I gave him a chance to go out for a pay phone, expecting him to say what I asked him to read me that one single standard that is democratic, to read me a single word that some MP gets broad powers. You haven't read it. You started talking about exhibitionism. What you're doing, it's exhibitionism. The biggest fell was Vojislav Kostunica and he fell asleep in the worst way. One day she won't take Carla del Ponte, then take her. The next day he's taking Javier Solana, the criminal. He says justice and justice, so he takes a criminal convicted to 20 years in prison. You're talking about who fell asleep! Is someone going to get more or less votes, but that's how the biggest criminals receive it, and that innocent people are being arrested and supported and you're saying it's democracy! Now I'm going to read something to Mr. Jocic, remind him of his exhibitionism in 1993. [[Applause to the MPs of the SRS.]] Mr. Jocic, we found the stenographic notes, what you were saying in 1993, about the Rules of Procedure. Not about any other act, but about the Rules of Procedure, which will be quite interesting to the public. Mr. Jocic called behind MP Steve Dragisic and President Dragan Tomic gave him his word. Jocic is talking about the Rules of Procedure, otherwise he's been talking for a very long time, and I can show you the whole book. All that says Jocic, I guess he used these four microphones as exhibitionists. He says, "It is brought at a time when the ruling party thinks it can establish a democratic regime without party competition and that it is an apparent atmosphere of democracy." That, Mr. Jocic, is what I told you today, by making this Rules of Procedure much worse than what we have then adopted, as everyone in this assembly hall knows, so do you. Like all those who have read it, it is clear to them. He says, "The businessman is brought in at a time when the Serbian current political regime wants to create something called democracy, as a mere label without content. It also comes at a time when it prevents or prevents anything that shows a different opinion, which would be dangerous and put into question the concept of the current government." Exactly right, Mr. Jocic. These are the reasons why you bring even more rigorous and restrictive Rules of Procedure than it was brought in 1994. That's the fundamental difference between us. And I'm still asking you, and ten times I'm going to go out for a pay phone and say your name, if that means a replica, read me that standard that gives any authority or any right to any of the MPs. Read me this norm that gives any authority or right to any of the MPs, except that he is deprived of whatever right he already had under this Rules of Procedure, and the right to replication and the right to go out to comment on other people's amendments, because it is not only an applicant of the amendment and of the head of the parliamentary group, but of the entire National Assembly and of every MP, as it used to be. And at a time when we were both opposition, that's the point. Don't keep talking... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... about the fallen and about Fjori Brovina, who let out of prison, to talk about Bogoljub Arsenijević - Maki, who is not still in prison, or those who lynch Milanović, but that is why you know some others that you are putting in jail. Please don't talk about the fallout.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1362	Karl Del Ponte was not brought by Vojislav Kostunica to Serbia, Vojislav Seselj brought. You're talking, dear colleague, about the story, and I'm talking about the essence. It's been talking about the story around here all the time, how much anyone's gonna talk about, whether it's gonna be longer or shorter. The assembly isn't a talk room, you know, the assembly is a factory. It produces laws and manufactures regulations that Serbian citizens will behave on. The factory can produce a little bit, and that's quality, but you don't know. One thing is how we understand this congregation. Do we see it as an unlimited abuse of everything and everything or as a number of people 250, who, in the name of the people, children, anyone, will make a decision on how to live in Serbia. You're just talking about the story. I'm talking about the essence. The point is who will, how and where to control whom. This Rules of Procedure can be done, that you or this one or that one speak an hour, two, five, but that doesn't matter. The important thing is whether or not we're going to control the government. For the first time this Rules of Procedure has something that is his quintessence, essence, which is that not only an MP, not just a party, but a committee can, whenever he thinks of it, call the ministers here and say... (A voice from the O.R.: Where are the ministers? "), place an account for us. It's not until now, of course you can't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1363	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1364	Ministers don't have to be in the Assembly, ministers are executives, they shouldn't be here, and they shouldn't be here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1365	Why should we call them here?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1366	To make the bills. Have you ever replaced any socialist ministers for the last 10 years?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just say about what Mr. Jocic said, that this is, of course, a notorious lie, which all Serbs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia know and those who are not Serbs, related to Carla Del Ponte. Karl Del Ponte received Vojislav Kostunica, and Vojislav Seselj would never have thought to get his hands dirty, sit down or shake hands with Karl Del Ponte, and especially not with the criminal Javier Solana, whom Vojislav Kostunica had placed the red carpet. That's the difference. There's something I need to tell you. When you talk about the talking room, I'm surprised you're acting that way and saying that, Mr. Jocic. The president of this assembly, I'm looking at him five days before this assembly, and I'm looking at him on "Politics", whether that's how it was, Mr. President, with some of you saying that it shouldn't take the Assembly long, so it's costing, so there's nothing in there, in any parliament in the world. Five days of talking on all television about how this is a democratic shift, how is this a huge step forward, so tell me what this democratic shift is? It's not true what you said. Today, the Prime Minister and all government ministers were invited. Isn't that right, Mr. President? Where are your ministers? There's not a single government minister all day. Not a single one. (Glass from Hall: Rade) There's not a single one all day, they don't respect the Assembly at all, they don't care. We know, they hold press conferences, they have newspapers to publish. Tell me, why didn't you accept the interpretation? You have in our amendments, Tomislav Nikolic and mine, you have impelation. We've made a proposal for an interpretation to get into this Rules of Procedure. Why isn't there an impelation? We made a proposal. You're going to adopt him? And you weren't informed? Your committees turned him down. One of my amendments, as many expert committees as we talked about earlier, one committee accepted, and the other one probably refused, not knowing that one committee had accepted, Administratively accepted, and the Legislative Committee refused. Isn't that right, Mr. Nikolic? They weren't even able to get along so much, they knew what they needed to accept, and what they needed to refuse, that's a fundamental problem. It's not true, the Assembly is for all possible debates, it's not a torture of people, but it's -- who won't watch there's another channel to turn. Someone said there's a problem with his ears when he hears it. Someone's got a problem with ears who's bothered by a different opinion, who can't listen to it. Let him take the remote control, and if he doesn't have a remote control, he can get to the TV, turn around some other channel. There are these singers, singers, as many as they want. There is nothing more important and nothing more serious than the congregation. See how serious it is? Mr. Martian spoke today about the responsibility and irresponsibility of the MPs. We are the only parliamentary group, the SRS almost in general came in time here at ten to four. Everyone else was waiting and we were waiting for them. Where are the ministers and the Prime Minister? They're gone. (A voice from the hall: Hapse) He hasn't come in ten minutes, no one, because no one cares. Then what are we talking about? You're saying it's not about the Rules of Procedure. That's right. It is not important in the sense that it can be compared to the Constitution and to some of the most significant system laws, but it is important, very important, as an internal legal act which first determines the course of the session and all that we need to do. (President: Time. That's what you were saying, Mr. Jocic, and I agree with that, that's a fact. And now I can't understand that it's possible to change your mind that way and change political attitudes. I continue to ask you to show me that one democratic norm that gives greater and greater rights and powers to MPs than those they had under the previous Rules of Procedure, which is not the best, but is relatively good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1368	I got the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1369	Just to consult, since I wasn't there. Here you go. I'm sorry, I didn't see it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. You'll get your word right after Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the harsh words addressed to the SRS have been used here, untapped words. You know, I don't choose either, so you have the right to a replica, but don't expect me to, if I don't choose words, that I'm going to feel other people's unsolicited words. There's a difference between a fall and a defeat. The SRS has suffered defeat in these elections, but it has not fallen, Mr. Jocic. That party hasn't changed at all. Serbia has been hit in these elections and time will show its own. You'll have the fall, Mr. Jocic. The fall is both personal and in your political party. You said something behind this pay phone just a little while ago that you'd be ashamed of just three, four months ago. You said that Karl Del Ponte was not brought to Belgrade by Vojislav Kostunica, but by Vojislav Seselj. You mean Vojislav Seselj and some other Serbs committed war crimes that led to Carla Del Ponte's arrival in Belgrade. That's how I interpreted you, and you have the right to... Shame on you, all of you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament! You're giving the verdict before Carla Del Ponte. What she needs and the evidence and what her witnesses will do, she has MPs from the DOS National Assembly who are the majority, and already ready to hand over anyone who is politically in this Serbia's way. To Carla Del Ponte, you're saying that Vojislav Seselj or some other poor Serbs brought him here, and then why did Vojislav Kostunica receive it? Is it a fall for your political party, a coalition with Rasim Ljajic, with Josef Kas? Is it a fall for your political coalition? Are these negotiations with Albanian terrorists? Is the fall for your political party a complete giving up on the programme by which you became famous in Serbia, the seven of you, the van party, Seselj in the frak was your president. You forget that. You've been waiting for us all to say what we've prepared, you record the thesis, so you come out more nice than the radicals, say the same national program. Where are you today, Mr. Jocic? I've been saying these words for nine years from this pay phone, and you can't identify yourself in what Mr. Wolf is quoting you. Now for you, the Assembly is a place that is not a talking room. For you now is a session of the National Assembly. Why? What changed in you, Mr. Jocic? I don't believe your views on democracy have changed. That's where you gave me the book of Vojislav Kostunica in '92. You should respect that book if he doesn't respect it. You learned politics on it. Now, that's the difference (the president - it's time) between defeat and fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1371	Mr. Prophetovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1372	I don't know on what basis some MPs are entitled to a replica. In Article 100(2), it clearly states that if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group on behalf of a parliamentary group, the President of the Parliamentary Group shall have a right to replication. I don't even know if it was. I also appeal again to the respect of Article 117. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament, which states that MPs are obliged to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the parliamentary unit, and therefore I do not understand that some people who are not in the hall, who have not been identified, who are violating the Rules of Procedure, are getting the right to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1373	The word was given to Mr Nikolic as deputy president of the parliamentary group. I don't know a member who says the deputy president of the parliamentary group is replacing the president. Like a replica or about a Rules of Procedure? There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1374	Mr. President, Article 99(2) and Article 102(1) have been injured. A gentleman from the Democratic Party who had just come out - I found myself offended because he said the radicals had fallen asleep. I've been a radical since day one, and I'm not going to say that he's drunk right now, I'm not going to say that people who use drugs are sitting in the front row, etc. If he insults us, we will insult him too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1375	Before I give my word to MP Rajko Baralic, I ask you to make a decision as far as we can today. Time is approaching for the end of regular working hours. I suggest, if there are no other suggestions, and if there are any, we can hear them, work until 9:00, then decide how and when. Any other suggestions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1376	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it makes any sense to work longer than 19 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1377	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1378	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Rule 83 of the current Rules of Procedure, the time for the work of the National Assembly is 10 to 17 hours. I'm really surprised by Mr. Martian, and you and your congregation majority present in the O.R., who is proposing a new Rules of Procedure that we are talking about today, and you have no intention of respecting that Rules of Procedure in the future. You suggested that the Assembly work until 19.30 a.m. in the future. I suggest we do it today. And as for some, possibly, other decisions, you won't be able to put her to the vote, because article 83 says, "The National Assembly sessions are held in 10 to 17 hours with an interruption of one hour and 30 minutes, [[that break lasted longer because there was no quorum]] That decision shall be taken as a rule at the beginning of the working day. It wasn't at the beginning of the working day, but here it is now, but you won't be able to decide twice about the same thing, so you can estimate from the number of people reported and how the session takes place at 21 o'clock -- and if your proposal is accepted, not mine, I believe you'll put my proposal to the vote -- that we are working eventually after that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1379	I'm not going to be able to put your proposal to a vote because you didn't answer as someone who wanted to make a proposal, but to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So you have a suggestion. Okay, we have three suggestions. Do we have any more suggestions? If we don't have any more, we have one proposal to work until 9:00, one to work until 7:00 and one to work until 7:30. Please, first of all, let's determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to work until 9:00. Please vote. In favour of the 111s against 54, abstentions 6, 28 MPs did not vote. I find that we have adopted the proposal and there is no need to plead on the other two proposals. We're moving on. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1380	I feel like it was a minute of silence for someone or something. Dear Mr. President, fellow MPs, esteemed journalists, a few sentences about the atmosphere itself in today's session. As always, 70 DOS MPs are missing again in the O.R. You, Mr. President, are here at 10:23 p.m., and you scheduled the session at 10:00 p.m. After the first break, you were 34 minutes late. Don't spoil the impression. You're the only bright spot in DOS power. Respect our time, and then the MPs will be here in time for the meeting. He said today Mrs. Comic is here on the scene with a new parliamentary spirit. Well-trained people don't discuss tastes. Let each of us experience or build this parliamentary spirit the way he thinks it's best. Mr Jovanovic, Ceda, as you have been calling him for miles, said today that Parliament is a place where a number of MPs have the opportunity to experience their resociation. It's not nice, Mr. Jovanovic, it's not relevant, it's not polite to talk like that. This is no way to address the Messengers of the people. If we analyze that, we could find that a number of people experience their socialization in some specialised institutions. But it's not on the agenda today. As far as the Rules of Procedure itself are concerned, it is clear that it is the creation of such conditions that, when serious legal projects come into order -- which when they arrive in the way that you have so far criticised as a non-democracy -- make it impossible for a number of MPs to put forward their views, proposals, beliefs, to break down with the promoters. However, you will make that decision today. There's no doubt about that. It's all ours to say why it seems and what you're motivated to do. You used to scold others for the same thing, and today you're second to that thing pointing to you with full right. (Some of the emissaries got it: now the other one's ugly.) No, nice people don't get ugly. I would particularly refer to what you have stated in your proposal for a decision in Article 20, and it concerns a member of the 51st current Rules of Procedure, where you leave out, a small part, a sentence that the Defence and Security Committee will not oversee the security services. It's no business's make-up, it's not a technical question. This is not only because, as you would say, Laza is in charge of the security services. People would say you left the goat to keep the cabbage. The Parliament's parent committee for this area should, in accordance with the law, have powers and, among other things, supervise the security services. Right there is the principle “who can do more, can less”. If this Parliament chooses the Government, why can the Committee, who is also elected by this Parliament, not be able to monitor security services in the future? There's something else behind this, of course. We can talk about this for a long time. However, in order to understand what this is all about, the following should be said. In a coalition of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, in the appropriate resolutions, it came in a way that today guarantees the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Democratic Party and -- if we add that -- the New Democracy to control all security services. There's one thing about these services. No state security service can be completely decommissioned the moment the government changes in one country. Take care of it and keep in mind that this service, like in all countries of the world, records everything that various people, including a large number of you, are doing. Regardless of what you have the impression today that you are fully in control of this service, may the happy service of national security not controlled by the Defence and Security Committee of this House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1381	There's a word from MP Srdja Popovic. After him, the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1382	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are three reasons why, as an MP for the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, I signed a proposal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. Those reasons were said here, which I am very pleased with. The first reason is efficiency, the second reason is to save people's money and the third reason is to restore dignity or build dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as efficiency is concerned, there's been a lot of words. Less opportunities for abuses, but also a better chance for MPs to hit the topic, so they don't talk about another Tito when it's on the agenda of the Rules of Procedure, as it happened at the previous sessions. I hope there's less going on in the future. About efficiency, gentlemen, there's not much to talk about. The numbers speak. I have no stenograms from previous National Assembly sessions, but I have here a report on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 and 2000, when the Government of National Unity was in power. The report says six sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were held in 1999 and 26 laws were passed. Someone will say it's efficiency, it's savings. Five sessions were held in 2000, 14 laws were passed. We, gentlemen, have already entered the fifth session and are adopting the ninth act. We also had the establishment of the Assembly and the government's choice. So we did half your job in 2000. This leads us to another reason for assessing efficiency, which is why this Rules of Procedure will be adopted today, which is saving people's money. As you know, on a proposal from the Democratic opposition to Serbia, the number of permanent MPs in this assembly has been reduced from 45% to 33%. That was accepted by other parliamentary groups. We also talked today about the length of the session. The democratic opposition to Serbia, the head of its parliamentary group and the president of the National Assembly of Serbia, has repeatedly suggested that the National Assembly work until evening. Do you know that MPs have to do their journals? As long as we're here, we don't have to come twice, so we don't hurt the budget twice. It is efficiency, not as much as is said in Parliament. The third thing is about something someone is proud of, and we from the Democratic opposition to Serbia will change that. It's the work of the National Assembly. In the last year, the average MP had between 30 and 40 working days and 12 months of salary. It's very expensive for Serbian citizens. We can't waste that money. For that reason, ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we respect one fact, which is that it costs democracy, costs the National Assembly, but the most cost is those MPs who don't work. They cost more than they do. The third reason, ladies and gentlemen, for which the Democratic Opposition of Serbia has proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure is to restore dignity, better said building the dignity of this home. Our congregations have looked a lot like a circus in the last few years. Today we're hearing about the concern of democracy. Whose MPs, whose presidents of the Assembly, have led to the singing of MPs in the halls of the Serbian and Yugoslav Parliament, the MPs beating, the presentation of MPs, swearing? That's the change we need. We need to restore dignity to the National Assembly and we will work on it. As far as democracy is concerned, I don't want to waste my time, so that I don't overstep it, I respect the Rules of Procedure, to say, have we thought or haven't we thought about abolishing the transfer of the Assembly -- so did any DOS MPs say that here? It's not. And we know that for a long time, both in this assembly, and in that second one, the transfers were abolished, the opposition MPs covered themselves with the voice of the RTS speaker during the transfer. This is what the people remember very well, and that is why we must prevent the Assembly from being what it was, the worst mirror of Serbia. There may be difficult words, there may be political debates in the Assembly, in which the Democratic opposition of Serbia has a majority, but we will do everything to develop an atmosphere of tolerance, that never again primitiveism and violence in the Assembly will be an ugly face of Serbia, no matter how hard some of the former have tried, ever. (Toma Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1383	No grounds, no, I'll take your word for it unless it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. To approach the speaker, and you do not call it an obstruction; do you exercise the right of the Messenger of the people?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1384	The right of the People's Messenger to a replica. Mr. President, I asked you to give me the right to reply. The former spoke about the Assembly, the work of the Assembly in 1999 and 2000. I was a National MP, talking about the government of the People's Unity, I was in that government vice president. I don't think I'm gonna take much of your time. I don't need much time, but please, I recognized myself absolutely in it. You will regulate it with your new rules of procedure, that it must be my name and last name mentioned. Now, according to this Rules of Procedure, it's not an obligation. I recognized myself, please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1385	We will resolve your objection to the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to leave the pay phone. We'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1386	Well...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1387	No - so I didn't give you my word and we didn't resolve your objection. No, you asked for the right to object to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you did so and we will decide on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1389	So don't decide, then I'll withdraw my objection, because I know what kind of decision you'll make.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1390	But before you withdraw, I am obliged to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1391	Mr. President, you are now stripping your performance as president of the assembly, no longer hiding at all, no use of any mask. You're preventing a replica, although it's quite clear that I have the right to a replica. Tell the MPs what they can use, what words, what they can't do, direct them to MP clubs so they don't cause replicas, I won't answer for the replica. But lies have been spread here, Mr. President. You know very well that these are lies. What does that mean, stop me from talking?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1392	Mr. Nikolic, after my explanation...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1393	You'll put that to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1394	No, that's what you'll have to ask, so I'll put it to a vote. You know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1395	I'm not asking you for anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1396	However, I promise you, if you...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1397	Well, I have the right, as People's MP, Mr. President, to speak for this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1398	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1399	So don't play with my rights, Mr. President. Tell Mr. Popovic, warn him, Mr. President, so tell him - Mr. Popovic, that's not true. Nothing will be saved by the Assembly if there are fewer deputies in the work. It's demagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1400	Mr. Nikolic, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1401	I asked you for a line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1402	You didn't get that. After that you asked...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1403	Slowly, follow the session, here, the man talks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1404	Aren't you in a position to stop for a moment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1405	Now will you give me the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1406	First, I must answer your objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1407	First you have to tell me why you don't give me the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1408	Well, of course, I'll explain that in response.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1409	So why didn't you give me the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1410	And then I'll give you the right to a replica, if you don't respect my explanation, that's what I guarantee you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1411	Well, I won't depend on your mercy, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1412	Well, under these circumstances you'll have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1413	Well, I won't depend on it. I want to depend on the Rules of Procedure, not on your mercy. You give me your word or you don't. Who are you, Mr. President, to violate the Rules of Procedure and put to the vote a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Well, I'm warning you in the end. So what does article 100 say?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1414	Now, that's what we're going to read. In Article 100, it reads: “If the MP of the people in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about the other People’s Messenger (it was not), or misread his presentation (it was not), the MP to whom the presentation refers shall have the right to the replication. The MP asks for a replica by raising his hand... etc. That's what you're looking for. If offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group" (there was nothing, offensive expressions, offensive expressions)....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1415	How was it, Mr. President? It's been said that we spent two years of state money without doing anything. What's offensive to you, Mr. President? So Srda Popovic can't be in Japan for seven days, come back, come here and say we're spending state money. It doesn't make sense, Mr. President. So how do you accuse us, who come here every day for a session, of spending state money? You're scurrying abroad about state spending, and now we're spending state money? I don't need any right...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1416	So, article 100 also reads: "If offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has a right to replication." Mr. Nikolic, you sought the replica because the government of national unity was mentioned. No offensive expressions were sent, it was said that she ruled this assembly as a majority, which is a fact, it's nothing offensive, it's just a sad fact And that's why I didn't think you were entitled to a replica. [[Applause]] If you think that even after reading article 100 you have the right to replication, I give you the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1417	I think you were warned this morning, Mr. President, that the place where you are, which allows you to take the word whenever you want, although it does not say it in the Rules of Procedure, do not use it in such a insidious way. Don't wait for me to get off the phone, to make some remarks about what I said, how I behave, what I used to be or what I am today. Ask for a word, Mr. President, come down for this microphone, keep one of your letters, and then we'll see if there are any expressions that we can use for the replica, and by no means, if you're really a Democrats, you wouldn't be using a chance when a man turns his back on you or when he's no longer behind this pay phone, that you're throwing one between us, evenly, to make it your advantage. The draft Rules of Procedure himself, Mr. President, speaks in favour of your decision to usurp the rights which you and the Constitution, and the laws, and this current Rules of Procedure, as president of the National Assembly. I see your desire to highlight, that ego that you can no longer hide. If the other MPs vote for it, what should I do to them, to their misfortune, it's just that not everyone here is from the DSS. Will these others from DOS allow you to command them as you wish? I'm convinced he won't, or at least in some foreseeable time, he won't want to. But I would say to Mr Popovic, that he would not remain among the citizens of Serbia, that there would be no error -- the MP has the right to establish a permanent working relationship in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The DOS parliamentary group has estimated how many people there are who need employment, how many people there are who don't need it, have decided to take down the percentage of...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1418	Well, I didn't give you the right to a replica after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1419	So now you're telling me you're giving me the right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1420	Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1421	I suggest you don't use alcohol, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1422	Let me explain - what you call usurping rights, etc. in Article 99. Rules of Procedure. You're the one who pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm not taking the floor because I love talking to you right now, but because Article 2 92's attitude obliges me to do that. I don't like talking to you at all, but I owe it to the Rules of Procedure, Section 3, to explain afterwards. So, after which - after your remark that the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I, as president of the National Assembly, am obliged to give an explanation afterwards. I've given that explanation and I'm giving that explanation now. That's what this is about. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: You are a man who does not know what he said a minute ago. ) If there are no objections to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the word has been made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1423	I believe that the president of the Martians will concentrate on my discussion, because I will mainly talk about the amendment of the existing Rules of Procedure, which was referred to by the DOS Parliamentary Group, i.e. I want to look back at the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, first and foremost, of what the president of the Martians has done so far. You can't hear it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1424	The system's blocked. Hold on a second.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1425	Mr. President, first you need to unblock yourself, then let us continue to work normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1426	Unfortunately, I can't do it without the help of the Service, so you'll wait a little while, just to see the secretary, to try to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1427	Come on and make some use of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I said, I will ask Mr. President of the Martian to concentrate on my presentation, given the fact that, speaking of the DOS Parliamentary Group's proposal to amend the current Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will, above all, talk about the work I have done so far, about what my objections are to the draft Rules of Procedure. And about the amendments later, primarily because of the fact that this is the Fifth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, after which it is likely, and already in its course, as before last week, it is obvious for Serbian citizens to slowly, through the will of the assembly majority DOS, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately for us MPs from the SRS, slowly but certainly turn into a farce. If we could have expected a proposal to amend the current Rules of Procedure, we knew right after the constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because in one of the first interviews in one of the so-called independent weeklys in Kragujevac, which it was not, President Marsicanin said that he must, I will paraphrasise you a little, to summon MPs who are insubordination in the Assembly and that he is very skilled when the MP comes out for a payphone. But he's got a problem when the MPs are getting out of the bench. You are the only one left unspoken, Mr. Martian, and you were supposed to be in that ignorant first interview, when you were elected president of the National Assembly, to say what MPs they were and to apostrophe the MPs of your assembly majority, who were mostly trying, and still today, to distract opposition MPs from working. This was particularly expressed during the third and fourth sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today, we have heard from the promoter that the assembly majority is right, which is not disputed, that it sets out its own rules of work and the way you want to regulate the rules of work with the new Rules of Procedure. It is not only restrictive, but it shows what your democracy is like, I would call it more sophistication, how you want to show it in action and how this new Rules of Procedure, as a new threat to the creation of an even greater atmosphere of lynch and here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and everywhere in Serbia, you want to say that, for God's sake, you have a two-thirds majority in this House, that you are now power and that you can do whatever you want. The work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has more than been expressed by the non-democratic behaviour of the president, Mr Marsicanin. Article 24 of the New Rules of Procedure states that an amendment has been proposed in Article 83. The Rules of Procedure, which determines that the session of the National Assembly works more effectively and instead of ten to seventeen to hold sessions from ten to 19.30 hours. It would really be nothing controversial, Mr. Martian, if you could discipline a parliamentary group, which is made up of some 18 political parties, and if you could constantly and on time, from the beginning, of ten hours, so as a session, to provide conditions for uninterrupted work. On the other hand, it would be more effective for the Assembly to do more normally, if you would not put yourself in the role of the arbitration panel after each MP's presentation and dare to be so bold as to comment on what MPs say for the assembly speaker, in the case of a short time, the deputy president of our Parliament group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to give your assessment and your comments. You remind me incredibly of Zoran Djindjic. You know, he's last week in a situation where he doesn't do his job when he's supposed to, and the assembly majority chose him for it, in a situation where the national disaster is on the line, and that's what you're blaming and taking on the growing forms of national disaster situations in southern Serbia, when the economic and social situation is becoming increasingly difficult, he puts himself in the role of arbitre between two football clubs. You are now reminding me of Djindjic because, all the time the MPs of the opposition, and above all it is expressed in particular and most of all in the opposition performances of the SRS MPs, you are using every opportunity to do your cynical and I would say too bold comments about what the MP should say and how to address the assembly majority. There has been a lot of talk here about how this Rules of Procedure will make the Government more responsible and account for its work. Then one of the DOS MPs again responds to remarks that it is not so, remarks by the SRS MPs, said the government's representatives and the prime minister himself and do not have to be here. Well, they don't have to. Zoran Djindjic said so himself right after the end of the third and fourth session of the National Assembly. He literally said: We were not at that session and we have no intention of coming there until the government proposes some interesting law. Indeed, unfortunately for all Serbian citizens, especially those who brought you to power to carry out such autocracy, Zoran Djindjic and his cabinet representatives will not even come here, because we do not expect there to be serious laws. How many of you with express democracy have performed and performed all over Serbia, and unfortunately, in most municipalities and cities, you are best shown by two forest municipalities. Many of the 18 parties from that unfortunate conglomerate of the DOS interest group, which shows all the service towards the enemies of this nation, will never set up their municipal committees in forest municipalities. You today intend to, on the municipal committees of Knic and Topola, how much the day after tomorrow, at the beginning of the regular session of this assembly, those activists, who are really working together with us, who are representatives of the people, to justify the trust of those who voted for Serbian radicals, get out of the rooms where the Serbian Radical Party has been operating for almost a decade. Rate what democracy it is, they'll judge the citizens. You'll let me, I believe, end this, given that I've exceeded my time. It is the president of your party and the current president of the SR of Yugoslavia, Vojislav Kostunica, who, in November 1994, when the previous Rules of Procedure was adopted, said literally the following, I quote and will end this: "Two things should be achieved. On the one hand, if you've already closed all the taps, the work of RTS (he thought of the old one, that's this new RTS), if you've done the "Politicals" of how RTS works, if you control all the media, by shutting down one, one after the other, Studio B, the fight, etc. The local radio stations, if you have done all of this and only the illusions of keeping this parliament through the transfer of public debates" (and there have been threats from DOS leaders to abolish assembly transfers)....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1430	Mrs. Jovanovic, it's been eight minutes, and I'm taking your word and asking you to get off the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1431	You're doing it in a much more drastic way today. That's what Vojislav Kostunica said. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1432	Now a little replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1433	Right on line, MP Mr. Dragan the Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1434	I'll be very brief. My dear lady, you are an example of what needs to disappear from Serbia's political scene. You spoke eight minutes, three minutes longer than we agreed, not because you were fascinated by my shortness and character. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1435	You don't have any longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1436	Please, not for that. It's good for me as a man, but you've devoted some five or six minutes of discussion to it, so that in one sentence you can draw a quote from a few years ago. That's what this is all about today. That such a policy, if possible, on the one hand to the Rules of Procedure and, on the other hand, by attracting those who experience politics and their parliamentary commitment the way you experience it, is slowly extinct as a relic of the past and as a relic of a time in which there was no parliamentary life in Serbia. The sooner that happens, the sooner this Rules of Procedure will be able to experience that upgrade that we have spoken of, and it will be able to provide ever-wider and wider rights and powers to the MPs. As much as you do this with your own experience as you are holding back and preventing MPs, so will the Rules of Procedure have to adapt to that. Now, that's what I wanted to tell you, and I really do ask you, the chairman will give the floor to answer, but I really ask you to keep the discussion and you, and all the other MPs, hold the time and the subject. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1437	Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1438	That I was absolutely right when I was talking about the insolence and indiscriminateness of the president, Mr. Martian, she also showed his replica. In the end, he couldn't stand it, and I challenged him to a replica at 5:30. All day long, he was trying to calm down after the presentation of the SRS MPs, because at the end of this replica he gave me a comment on how MPs should behave and how to use the assembly pay phone. Mr. Martian, I am not only an example of what Serbia will look like but in the next election, as the people understands greatly all the perdition of the government that is now called DOS, but I am also a real example of a democratic performance, which I have learned along with my colleagues, older by training in this work, and especially as an MP in the Council of Citizens of the Federal Assembly. You know, in the last session of the Greater Citizens of the Federal Assembly of the SRS and I personally had a lot of objections in the way of holding the session, we advertised the Rules of Procedure, we used every opportunity to summon the brains of the then current president, to start with direct television transmissions. Then I really thought, since it was my first parliamentary mandate, that there was no one with a higher degree of autocracy performing. However, you are a true example of what certainly voters in the next election should not follow. Because you are an example of democracy, and above all, that you belong to a political party, and that is what your president has shown in action, which has led to the national disaster of Serbia and the SRJ. Don't lecture me when I belong to a political party who is consistent in his views and who will always protect the interests of the voters and not only those who chose us, but through my political action, even if there are only 23 of us here against all of you, who do not do anything good for Serbia and the Serbian people. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1439	The People's Messenger Radojko Petric has the word, and after him, the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure are a very important act for the work of the National Assembly, and has it rightly earned such an importance to convene an extraordinary session exclusively with one item of the agenda and to bring amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, and by urgent procedure. It was normal to expect a session to be called about resolving far more important issues than the front, because we still have a lot more pressing ones. Let us take into the area of economy, the social situation of citizens, the south of Serbia, and others. Does this want to create a blurred picture in front of citizens about solving important things? The explanation of the proposal says that these changes and additions want to ensure more efficient work of the Assembly in the coming period. However, when certain provisions are considered, it is hardly possible to survive such a claim. It wants a more comprehensive discussion to be limited, and that is precisely when the proposals for different solutions are discussed, rather than those proposed by the government. This refers to the debate in the adoption of laws and other acts, when debated in particular regarding the amendments submitted. It is proposed that only the proposings, the government, the chairman of the board and the head of the parliamentary group may come forward following the amendments submitted. Why is the democratic right to report to the other MPs? The amendments themselves often inspire a useful debate and create a challenge for a particular issue to be seen more critically and versatilely. It should be borne in mind that the amendments are submitted three days before the beginning of the session, and given how our mail works, it happens that we MPs don't get those materials. We've been getting amendments since the debate started. Not to say when an act is adopted by an emergency procedure, where the Rules of Procedure have been told that the amendment can be submitted until the debate begins. When an MP arrives to meet, to take a stand, to declare the amendment afterwards, to lift two fingers or to vote through modern technique. The front is that it wants to avoid critical analysis and the struggle of opinion. Why does he want to avoid a reasoned debate and analysis? We all know that some question would be well looked at should hear the reasons for and against. There's a lot of maybes between you and me. It is true that most people can always bring in the act they want, but how harmful and undemocratic it is to prevent different opinions from being heard. Most people should show great patience towards taking different opinions. Inappropriate procedures should not be tolerated, such procedures should be prevented and branded, but normally prescribed measures. When it wants to prevent opinions and express different attitudes, it leads to the collapse of democracy. There's one thing we want to do through this kind of behavior. I'm going to remind the promoter here of a sentiment of a well-known philosopher who says, "A unity without distinction is tyranny." When the Socialists were in power, it was possible for every MP without restrictions to participate in the debate in particular, according to each amendment submitted. (loud from the O.R.): That's not true. ) Let's make it happen now. We are building a European-level parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1441	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, DOS's authority is responsible, carefully bringing priorities, and in these difficult times, it finds the best solution to set the agenda for this assembly. In that regard, she puts on the agenda an emergency procedure, in an emergency session, amending the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It will probably contribute to a lot of light lighting in our citizens' rooms, to improve the state of education, health care, agriculture, to improve the overall economic and social situation by changing this Rules of Procedure. Plus, it's probably going to be from the international praise community, because this is another extension of everything that went on in your October revolution. Counting on all the positive effects of such a change in the Rules of Procedure, I am surprised at the criticism of opposition MPs. They are calling for this Rules of Procedure to abolish the right of MPs to speak for this speaker, not democratic, to be restrictive, etc. Gentlemen of the opposition MPs, would you like to speak for this speaker? Oh, he can't. He can't, because you obviously haven't heard about the changes. There's been a change. Significant changes. And while it was a dictatorial regime, then it could be spoken, but now in democratic regimes -- e, it can't be spoken anymore. Please, this won't be a pay phone anymore. This will be a quiet room, because if you speak there will be obstructions. He who speaks takes part in the work, makes obstructions, and he who shuts up and works is very useful and grateful. Therefore, I am not surprised that the next addition of this Rules of Procedure will be that this pay phone or the silent office is used here to keep one quiet for three to five minutes, and when it is well kept silent, it will be a very effective work of this congregation. Finally, a mask fell to the president of this assembly, who was trying to perhaps a little gullible, naively, yet convinced that a president of the assembly who would be very democratic to lead this assembly and who would really stand as a speaker, would not be biased, would not cheer for either side. But this is on his soul now, but he now needs to be a teacher with this rule of law. He's going to tell us who's going to sit down, we just don't know the criteria. Whether the good students on the left, the worse the students on the right, whether the girls with the boys, or how they're gonna get along. Perhaps the President of the Assembly could take the obligation to tell us when we're going to lunch, because DOS MPs usually leave quickly, they're never there, so they go to lunch early, they eat everything, and when we go there, there's never what you want. Maybe it was, after all, that Mr. Martian succumbed to the words "too many words killed him". It's still supposed to hold. There were also words here about expensiveness. We complain so much that the expensive assembly, gentlemen, has nothing more expensive than bad and stupid laws. You're passing stupid laws with two members and four of your amendments and then when we criticise it, you say you're obstructing. So it's not the one who makes stupid laws, it's the one who criticises stupid laws. And finally, with this kind of work, gentlemen, demagogue, the story that everything is democracy, that everything is in the interest of citizens and people, it seems to me that DOS slowly but certainly brings chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1443	There's a word from MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1444	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all of this looks like it's already been seen. The only thing that hasn't been seen is that so far everything's been something of two to four members, and here you've been playing with forty and some members. However, this too came down to all the things we have been talking about in the previous congregations, that only something should be abolished. Use your heads once if you have something and bring what's new and what's worth it. Just don't make any of this new Serbian new talk. It's gonna be hard to handle. However any one of you comes out, especially Mr. Chad, is immediately grasping democracy, it's one thesis, and the other are thieves, and then when we talk about the previous one, our Rules of Procedure, which was democratic, every one of you, when you were an opposition, and now that you're half-cutting it, it's still so democratic that it's an example of a new democracy. But democracy to you, gentlemen, for calling yourself Democrats, but I think that's how fewer people in Serbia experience you. When you were an opposition, some of you were young so they weren't here, and some of you were as rich as some committee secretaries, failed generals, colonels and so on, they used to sit there, so they were really opposition in the assembly bench, then it was normal to go out for a pay phone, because my God, you should hear a second opinion, it's democracy and so on. Now that the current opposition is coming out for a pay phone, you call it obstruction and any other names, which means that you've been confused again by democracy, or by those who trained you to take power, they've trained you just to kidnap the government, and those other lessons, or you haven't gone to class, or it hasn't come to the agenda yet to surrender. Rules of Procedure, I was very surprised that it didn't say that your sessions were scheduled for this new television session, since we found out about this session today on TV, and then even yesterday we managed to get calls, and the Rules of Procedure somehow managed to get it on the parliamentary group. Someone who didn't get it today had a lot of time to get ready to think about the 41 changes you've made. You call that democracy? For this speaker, then a prime minister, and now Serbia's prime minister, he said very bombically "we will not steal and lie", then we must say that your friend, and unfortunately for us only the minister of justice and call local self-government, is not telling the truth about this speaker, or is it simply said to the Serbian people that he is lying, because here a few days ago this same gentleman said, "A few days and a land zone is crossing a mile." A few days in Serbian means three, four, five days, until Sunday to the top of his head. It's been more than that. So we have to say that Mr. Minister is lying and so is Mr. Energy Minister before...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1445	Please stick to the agenda, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1446	Yes, it's on the agenda because today at this assembly pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1447	The Rules of Procedure are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1448	Well, the Rules of Procedure say, among other things, if you've reached the very Rules of Procedure, one member, who's also amazing, tomorrow or today, if we get to midnight, we'll talk about it being that senior member, when we get to him, then we'll discuss more about what it means -- a senior member. Because, the Energy Minister says that, God forbid, if there's only more than 20 days of cold weather there's gonna be a power restriction, when it's going down very quickly, it's been 20 days and there's no power, and those who managed to reach a copy of the Rules of Procedure last night, so they haven't had the power, they haven't been able to study this rules of procedure again. And you don't have much else, not just electricity, ma'am. [[Sagar.]] Efficient work in this House, according to the Rules of Procedure, depends on how high-quality someone suggests something. If you continue to insist on these famous laws of two to four members, with 15 amendments (President-Time), we will get very far. There's only one thing I have to say here, and I'm gonna end it. It's the first time you've warned me on time. This is where we heard a gentleman, who unfortunately isn't here, as he said, "There's some so-called. The opposition." We socialists are certainly in the right opposition, and the fact that you DOS people don't know what you are, that's your problem, and we can't help you. How much association of Mr. Zahari Trnavčević in his years of visiting the village and cows has affected this new disease of mad cows, this time will show.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1449	The People's Messenger, Gordan Pop-Lazic, has the word, and after it is the Messenger of the people, George Mamul.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1450	I expected a similar roar of elephants as when my colleague went out, but thank you, you're probably more observant because of my age. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the need for the motion to make a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, above all because, in the meantime, the Law on the Selection of National MPs of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Selection of Federal MPs in the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly has been adopted. It is normal that this Rules of Procedure should have suffered certain changes accordingly. I don't understand, however, the need to call an extraordinary session because of this item on the agenda, when we are only two working days away from the regular session. I comment on this because of those who are calling for rationality and cost and that each meeting is a burden on the Republic's budget. We could have waited for a regular session and discussed this item on the agenda. I don't understand, of course, why the material wasn't delivered in time, why no calls were given to the MPs in time for this session. This is embarrassing, above all, for the president of the National Assembly, who has proved in this way that he does not know the Rules of Procedure, that he is ready to break it, that his aim is to make it impossible for the MPs to come to the session and, if they do, to take quality part in the debate that has been established on the agenda. I remind the president of the National Assembly of amendments to Article 74. Rules of Procedure, just to find him, please, where he says "that the National Assembly, that is, the President of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee or the Commission.... "just a moment, I apologize for this material, for the President of the Assembly, why he acts as he otherwise behaves, precisely because these amendments to the Rules of Procedure require him for himself, and not for the National Assembly the authority to consult any expert teams, certain organisations and experts within his jurisdiction. It is clear to the Rules of Procedure what are the responsibilities of the President of the Assembly. These are very modest responsibilities, and if he needs consultations with expert teams for such responsibilities, then he does not deserve to sit as chairman in this assembly. Mrs. Comic went out for this pay phone and explained that she is one of the quality of this proposal, which can be taxed, who can submit everything with the bill. Mrs. Komic, that's the constitutionally taxing number. It is completely contrary to the rules of law that constitutional provisions are directly transposed into such an act, even if it was a general act, but this level that should only be regulated by the way we work in the Assembly. You probably wanted to give meaning that it could also be the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, but we know that we also have the Constitution of Serbia, which does not deny the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. In my opinion, it would be much more natural for this Rules of Procedure to deal with how MPs should look, to train, to shave, to come to the congregation, thus showing that this is a high home. Let's just say, ladies can't come in their pants, or at least not the ones that weigh over 70 kilos. We have also heard that the date for this pay phone is interpreted as a need for resolution and obstruction, that we need five minutes to discuss it. That's what the president commented on several occasions here in the Assembly, and Mr. Jocic said one second was enough. Yesterday, the president of the Council of Citizens in the Federal Assembly estimated that it was 10 minutes. Please consult the same expert, so that at least we can get confirmation from you that we are intelligent enough if for some time we can expose what you think we should expose. About the other things in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1451	The People's Messenger Djordje Mamula has the word, followed by Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1452	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is clear that the MP belongs to those rights that do not belong to other citizens. However, those rights should be used in the public interest, not in the party or in the individual interest, of this or that MP. I believe that these proposed changes really limit the right to speak in parliament, but also the right to speak is one of the most effective techniques of obstruction. That's why the possibility of speech is limited. We've noticed over the last four weeks that many here have been against the law in principle, and then voted in favour. That's why I think it's not just about efficiency, it's about public interest, which is why we're all here, regardless of political confidence. Since the draft amending Rules of Procedure have, in principle, accepted the parliamentary groups of the SPS and the SSJ, I believe that in these proposals they have recognised the public interest rather than their own party interest. That's why I think these proposals should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1453	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1454	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as far as I know, are not limited to anyone in this country to speak, nor to be attributed to minutes, or classes, or seconds, except for the MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by DOS authorities. The shortening of the time for exposure and the replica of the Members of the People is an act of degradation of the Members of the People. What the MP will be able to say in three minutes, especially if someone talks slower. He won't even be able to say five sentences. People's MPs are elected by voters, who need to see and hear what their representative says in the National Assembly, and for what he stands for in the Assembly. With this proposal, to shorten time for three minutes, it is taken away from the Members of the People to give their opinion to the National Assembly and to explain it properly and fully without the President's repression. There is no parliamentary democracy here in the multilateral assembly. It is obvious that the promoter claims to defuse and make it impossible for opposition MPs to participate in the work of the National Assembly in a democratic way. It will all come down to the one-party work of our Parliament, the DOS, similar to Broz's parliament. Parliamentary democracy has become the second victim of a new rule of law. The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly resembles a rule on the disciplinary responsibility of Members of Parliament. The Rules of Procedure would have to be evaluated by the Constitutional Court, which would have determined whether it was in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia before it was adopted, such as in the countries of the West. Parliamentary democracy means the power of the people being held in parliament through representatives of the people elected in the elections. This is middle-aged democracy. This understanding strongly opposes the democracy of dictatorship. It does not accept the interpretation that every democracy is the dictatorship of the party in power that -- in a particular case -- prescribes, and that is now DOS power. This looks like despotism and tyranny to me. The current government is losing sight that it was not voted by Serbian citizens 100%, that the majority of citizens voted in favour of the opposition, and a number of citizens did not go to the polls. It is therefore a fact that citizens are deprived of the right to participate in the work of the National Assembly in an indirect manner. Apparently, gentlemen of the DOS, you failed to prescribe and who will be the director at the Assembly during the session. We can expect you to bring in the directors with the machines. Gentlemen of the new government, you know what you're doing, but you don't know the consequences of what you're doing. With the regulation of certain standards, how MPs should behave, and within what time-limit they should deliver their opinions, they are narrowed down to the MPs and the right of citizens to participate indirectly in Parliament's work is taken away. Mr. President, please, I have a big objection to your work and to the work of your secretary. They are obliged to deliver materials to the MPs in time, not to let the MPs come to the meeting you are having and then to get the material, thus deprive him of the right to prepare himself to participate actively, comprehensively and versatilely in Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1455	There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic. After him is the word of MP Velibor Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1456	Mr. Chairman, between the two meetings of the National Assembly, two tragic events took place for the Serbian people. I ask you for one minute of silence, all of us to pay our respects to the missing Serbs in two accidents, one in Kosovo and the other in Bujanovac. If you don't, I'm going to have to keep my mouth shut here for one minute and I'm going to pay my respects to the missing Serbs and MPs who think it should be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1457	Mr. People's MP, is that a suggestion?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1458	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1459	Then I ask you to do it, with what I would do, so it's not just for the last cases -- although it's common and well-intentioned, I hope that you are, I would suggest it at the beginning of the session -- namely to do it for all those who lost their lives in both Kosovo and southern Serbia, and in all the unfortunate events that happened in previous years to our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1460	Sure, just in previous situations, we've done it on a regular basis. However, between these two sessions, no one remembered to mention it in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1461	All right, then let's do it now. Gentlemen, if you'll excuse us for a minute of silence, we'll pay our respects to the missing Serbs. (Employees get up and pay their respects to the missing Serbs for a minute of silence. Glory to them! (STAMMERS: GLAME TO THEM! )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1462	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, political, legal and any other terror that has ruled since the October revolution has spread so far to Serbia that even this house could not be spared. What is particularly worrying is the inaccuracy of the chairman in communication with the MPs. Mr. Chairman takes it as a matter of course to comment on the identification of MPs, not asking whether, in time, the MPs invited them to the National Assembly's meeting, secondly, whether they had provided them with working material for the National Assembly's meeting, thirdly, that a large number of MPs had not received the invitation, let alone working material for this meeting of the National Assembly, fourthly, sir, one hour before the opening of the debate in principle, you are delivering a bunch of working material, which a very serious MP cannot, nor has time to read, let alone do some serious analysis of the draft decisions on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Sir, this material, this Rules of Procedure is an act of 70 pages, and the material has 100 pages. An hour before the start of the session of the Assembly was to be studied and discussed. Gentlemen, you better deal with the security of the state, the education, the health care, the standard of workers and their families, the lack of electricity that you're causing with your incompetence in all fields, except in the field of arrest and wheezing of non-insanes, buying propaganda lies time to conceal the incompetence of the dossal government. Gentlemen, cloning the whole normal world opposes and reproves it. You're trying to stop MPs from discussing citizens' problems here. DOS MPs use only two words: time and theme. Every now and then, change works, bangs on the benches, and individuals with permission are banging on this pay phone too. Isn't DOS infected with some unknown virus? Gentlemen, according to information from the NATO criminal alliance, you arrested Mr. Milanovic because he allegedly knew the date of the bombing of television. On the same basis, Mr. Covic should be arrested now, because during terrorist attacks on the Nis-Express bus in Kosovo and the Bujanovac field vehicle was at NATO headquarters in Brussels, and you know that terrorists are co-ordinated by NATO as well. To remind you, 13 Serbian patriots and defence heroes were killed in these two acts of terrorism. Ministers are harassing you and privatizing you in Serbia, and Mr. Jocic is banging from this pay phone: This is the factory. Is this where you started your privatisation?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1463	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1464	Here in Belgrade, the Institute for Mother and Child for the whole winter there is no heating, so sick children freeze, and you talk about care, work, responsibility and efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1465	I'm sorry to call you back for the third time today. But there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 102, which clearly states that "the MP can only speak about the issue on the agenda". There's no mention here of what's on the agenda today. There's been some other talk, which is nothing weird. Those who advocate the respect of the Rules of Procedure today have proved to be the most frequently broken ones. It's quite common for you. By yesterday, you were most concerned about the national interest, and here you are now violating the Rules of Procedure also in another member, who says that only the president of the Serbian Parliament can no one interfere with the speaker or warn him. It's perfectly normal for you. I wouldn't talk about throwing anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1466	I agree there have been violations of the Rules of Procedure from all sides, but I have been trying to refer the MP to the subject. That's what we talked about. So, in a situation where the Rules of Procedure is being violated on all sides, I can hardly react, except this way as I react. So he who speaks, or he who escapes the subject of the agenda, and time goes by, and those who earn, they all break the Rules of Procedure, and I am all obliged to warn.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1467	I don't mind if you warn the MPs of your coalition to comply with the Rules of Procedure, but you too must adhere to the Rules of Procedure and to Article 94 you violate it. It's that as president, if you want to discuss it, sign up for a discussion, not abuse that function and that position and comment from there. To you, my colleague, who goes out to advertise the Rules of Procedure, I promise you the leather link of the new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1468	I have to answer again. Some MPs are persistently trying to challenge my right to do what I'm doing right now, which is to answer to you. I owe it to the Rules of Procedure to answer your remarks about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's my duty under the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. People's Parliament, read the Rules of Procedure, and then answer the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1469	You're interpreting the Rules of Procedure, but then stick to the Rules of Procedure. You interpret that member who was advertised by the MPs that he was violated, you interpret him according to this Rules of Procedure. Don't expand your discussion. Now you use this, not as an explanation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but you use it to promote some of your views which, unfortunately, in most cases do not comply with the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind, but you have to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1470	What a member you're advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1471	Article 94 clearly states what the president's obligations are if he reports for a speech. The 94th article reads, "The President of the National Assembly, when he chaires the National Assembly meetings and if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly." That means you're part of the replica. So, in the work of the Assembly if you participate, come to this pay phone. Show your example that you respect this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1472	You're quite right, but I don't understand what you're complaining about. And you and I are right. You pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm telling you that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken and there's no need to answer the word. I'm obliged by article 99 to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1473	But you didn't explain whether he was broken or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1474	What you're doing right now, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm giving an answer from my place, and you can ask to come out and put your proposal to a vote. So is that what you're looking for?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I believe you've violated Article 99. The Rules of Procedure, still current, which says: "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly (that is You) gives a word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. The MP is obliged to specify which provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in his view, are injured, to quote them and to explain what the infringement consists of, by being able to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. If, even after an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in the position of the Rules of Procedure to be injured, the President of the National Assembly calls on the National Assembly to decide without scrutiny on the issue." That's what my colleague Mircic was talking about. Every time one of the MPs, and this is done in this case by MP Prorokovic, advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you usually do so when Serbian Radical Party MPs are concerned, you provide a finding of whether or not the injured Rules of Procedure have been injured, you do not give a clear explanation and do not put before the MPs whether the advertised member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm asking you to put it to a vote now, I'm asking you to, it's my parliamentary right, have you violated Article 99. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1476	Now I'll do it with article 99. Let me answer that. Therefore, in Article 99, paragraph 3 reads: "The President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards." Now I'm doing it. "If, after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly President calls on the National Assembly... "So, you need to meet the conditions. What conditions? That the Messenger of the people may remain in the matter, despite the explanation. If he decides to accept an explanation, then, of course, it doesn't put it to a vote. It was in most of these cases and that's it. Are you satisfied with the explanation? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic is asking us to declare ourselves by voting. Please confirm the quorum. I would like to vote on the proposal by Natasha Jovanovic that he has been broken by the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I would like to make a statement about Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic's proposal. I find that 10 MPs voted against 122, with 10 abstentions, did not vote 26. I find that we have made a decision where Natasa Jovanovic's proposal is not accepted. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to have this kind of conversation and ongoing attempts by the President of the National Assembly to make the other MPs "sinners" and to interrupt from myself the saint, I will read to you some members of the Rules of Procedure and ask him not to do so in the future, because it is irresponsible to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I will remind him of his words, which he today spoke from this speaker. It is said in Article 103, paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, while at the same time, that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Many times from this pay phone, when you come out, you can say, and it's not a problem that you insulted MPs who don't think like you, Mr. Martian, I have nothing against it, there's our possibility and our right to always answer that question. Whether we're going to be able to do it well or not, it's already a question of our abilities, but from where you are now, several times earlier, you've tried -- maybe I'm going to use a too hard word, although I wouldn't say -- that in a very perfiduous way you're going to let the whole public know that you're going to react in a nice way, how some criminals sit here, people who don't know what they're saying, how they say, etc. I'll remind you of a comment on the sad fact, Mr. Martian, when I couldn't be able to report for such a replica to go out for a pay phone, but it's something that's inadmissible for the president of the National Assembly to say from where you are. I would ask that you, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, do not otherwise abuse it in such a way and I would ask you to try to conduct meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in an uncompared manner. It seems to me that this will contribute to a much better and much healthier atmosphere, and not in one offensive way, I would say the worst possible way, and even insult the MPs of an MP's group, who are guilty just because they think otherwise or because they sometimes show you the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Most of the time they're right. The congregation sometimes says they're wrong, because the Assembly can decide what it wants, but I'm just asking you not to abuse it from there and there, because the question is really what way, and how long it takes, and how someone can take it and tolerate it. Don't forget we're exactly the same. We are chosen as you, in no way different, except that the Assembly has given you the right, so the congregation majority has given you the right to chair, to hold meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think we're going to take a significant step forward. And it seems to me that this is how it works, so everyone breaks, and especially the radicals, when someone comes out of DOS, they get one word, you immediately warn the radicals, and when the radicals come out, they throw 50 DOS members. When they win, then shut up, don't say anything to anyone, then they're all guilty, and only you're good. That is not so, and it would be good if you would take care of the dignity of the National Assembly, which you chair, and of the dignity of all the other People's Messengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1478	The only thing I can answer you to is that I'm violating the Rules of Procedure of Articles 103, paragraphs 1 and 2 is that I don't think I did it. So I think I respect the dignity of the National Assembly and address the MPs with respect. Of course, you have the right to say you're not satisfied with my explanation, so we'll put it on the line. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure on my part.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1479	I'm talking to you about how you permanently violate the Rules of Procedure and I don't know what you'd put to the vote right now? What I have said is that you are in permanently violating the Rules of Procedure, and the majority of the assembly will vote anyway and say that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. I'm telling you, since some people don't seem to be able to speak, they can't go out for this pay phone, they can't behave politely. If they think they're gonna scare me with their screams, they won't. If you think of any other way to solve these problems, you can try. But I tell you, do not shout, nor threaten, for this should be the National Assembly, and not what you have learned. If you have anything against what I said, go out for the pay phone, and say it. It's a basic civilization order. I just told you, Mr. Martian, that I think it would be good, and I am convinced that it is done by most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it would be good to treat the opposition MPs differently, above all, to treat them differently. I even gave you examples of your behaviour, because I'm not going to say that the saddest fact that you are today the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I could say that and I would have had a much greater right, than that you were saying what you were already saying, so I didn't ask you to put it on the vote right now, because I know how the majority of the assembly will behave, it was already my appeal to you to make an effort and to change your behavior and I think it would be a completely different relationship in the National Assembly and that tensions would be much lower and that it would be more incomparably normal to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1480	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1481	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to do one little period before I really just go to the Rules of Procedure. I see my colleague Bane Ivkovic is here. He said in a previous statement that I need all of us here together to make sure that the interests of the citizens are minimal. I say no, but we need to achieve the greatest interest of the citizens, not the minimum. And now, as far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, you know, I am, by the way, all of you, reading a lot in my life, and I've singled out three or four things, which I consider to be the smartest thing I've ever read. One of them is - the famous Austrian philosopher Witgenstein took as the motto of one of his books: "What you can't say for a while, better or not speak." If we were to stick to his maximum, every rulebook would be good for us. I've spent here, in this room, for seven years, in three earlier congregation meetings. We've discussed the Rules of Procedure several times. Believe me, every Rules of Procedure was good to me. I've been in the way for a while if I'm out of time, and the president reminds me, that's all. However, the Rules of Procedure regulate some things, that is correct. I would suggest whether it's written or not in the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't matter, but if there's any goodwill, we can agree on that. I believe that a quorum should be established at the beginning of the session, at 10 in the morning, and no quorum should be constantly determined unless an MP specifically requires it. For example, it's been attended by teachers' council meetings in colleges. The quorum shall be established at the beginning of the session, and the quorum shall no longer be checked until someone has explicitly requested it. We're here, a little bit, so we're establishing a quorum. You know, what can I tell you, this card insertion, once we determine the quorum, the second time we vote, if nothing else, it's terribly boring. And let's avoid it somehow. Let's throw it out, every time -- throw out the card, put in the card, and throw out the card, and then insert the card that you voted, so this, and so on. There is no need if we agree to establish the quorum once and not establish it again during the session, unless someone specifically asks. The other thing is, it's a good thing you're proposing to get rid of Article 2. 116 from the old Rules of Procedure, about the verification. One more thing, which is also important, it's about impelation. The institution is very important in each parliament. We suggested it earlier when we were in opposition. It has not been adopted since then by the parliamentary majority, and now we are not adopting it, although a significant progress has been made in the draft rules of procedure by inserting Article 203a in which government controls are being spoken, reporting, etc. And it's kind of, sort of, a substitute for impelation. However, there is a concern, which is why we have not been allowed before to have impelation as an institution, there is a concern that the institution would be abused, that often 20 MPs would be gathered and asked for impelation when it comes to a social problem. This can be avoided by, say, limiting, so let's say, in a regular session, which takes three months, only one interpretation can be done. Anyway, we can't avoid it. All European parliaments have this institution, we will eventually have to introduce impelation with us. If we behave rationally and reasonably and if we stick to this sentence of Wittgenstein, I will repeat - which cannot be said briefly, better and not spoken - there will be no problem with that institution either. (A voice from the O.R.: What do you think of the deployment of MPs? Don't ask me that, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1482	The word has a People's MP, and you're going to be head of a parliamentary group? Right on line, MP Mr Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1483	My dear colleague, Professor Simonovic certainly thinks in the same direction, and finally he showed it as I did here when I was talking, it was just a little misunderstanding, and more because of you and me, when I was talking about the minimum interest of the citizens, maybe I made a mistake. I was talking about the minimum common agreement that we have to reach here, in order to achieve the greatest interest of the citizens right now. Simply, we are MPs here, the people sent us here to work in the interests of Serbian citizens. To make legislative solutions, to make them live better, to make the economy work better. It is the appeal that I have sent here to all MPs, that we must have the right, but also the possibility to express our views on every matter, because the people here have sent us as thinking people, working on legislative proposals or any other problem, to do our best, to do our best, and to have most of us decide what most people think in this room. It is precisely to bring the interests of Serbian citizens to the full. Thank you. What do you think of the chairs? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1484	The word has a People's MP, Vucurovic Bozidar, and the next is MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1485	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to all the criticism and disagreements with your work, I must confess that you are in something very consistent. You're consistent with your inconsistencies. All the things you've been up against and against that same pay phone that you've been spreading napkins of accusations against, now you're introducing. That's good. Now the people finally realize that the stories of democracy apply only to the conquest of power. After that, the only difference is that Murta rides, and Kurt walks. Which is Kurta, although a tyrant, a democratic couple of excellencies for Murta. How come while you were in the opposition, how come you were then allowing yourself all methods of parliamentary struggle? How come you've allowed yourself an obstruction of 70 kilos of amendments, and now you call the speech and the apparition of the failures and errors from this pay phone an obstruction. How come you're saying one thing in 1994, and the other you're saying it now? You propose that committees discuss the draft laws, amendments and acts adopted by the Republic of Slovenia. Here's what this committee work looks like. No member of the board has read any single amendment, because if he had read the video, I would have given an amendment that says that by abolishing the verification committee, and that was the language correction of the Rules of Procedure, which is a non-called commission. It's called a commission. I suggested that this commission be called a committee to confirm its mandate. My amendment was rejected, not because the commission should not be called that, but because no one on the board has read it. Now in the Rules of Procedure, it's left to be a commission. Then let's cancel the names and committees. Let the Defence and Security Committee be called a committee, let the Finance Committee be called a committee, let the Justice Committee be called a committee. Let the Administrative Commission be called only a commission, if this commission is only a commission. Before you started telling us about democracy, you had to learn the morphology of this puzzle. This complex is made up of two Greek words: demos (people) and acronyms (rule). And you think the morphological composition of this word is the Greek word "demos" and the Serbian word to be shortened. Well, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1486	Please stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1487	Democracy is the theme of every agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1488	The topic of the agenda is to remind you, the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1489	Mr. Jocic left, there's a statement, Mr. Jocic, Valtazar Bogisic, it really exists, it's good and beautiful. There is another older Maxim of Roman law, which reads: "Lui iuras suo utitur, the inevitable facit iniuriam (infinitely laedit)", which means, whoever benefits his right does no harm to anyone (no one is offended). We're just here to protect our rights and make the commitments that the people here have chosen us for. Those who chose us ordered us to protect their interests from this pay phone. This is a factory. It is a factory, but the words, my colleague, we agree that this is a factory, but we don't agree that you're doing your own transformation here and you're privatizing it. It's been a while, more in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1490	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Goran Cvetanovic, and the next is the MP, Mr. Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I took home my baby, the newborn son from the Gynaecological Academy Department, to me too. "), and good luck to my colleagues, and what welcomed me at home, it was just a power restriction in Leskovac. Something that could have happened to a five-day-old child most tragically, to start her life with a power restriction. I had material waiting on the table, except for the agenda in the material, and the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No other material. When I looked at that material later, you were probably surprised, too, because I'm sure you agree that it's not the most important debate in the Assembly where and how the MPs are going to sit. And that we have much more important and vital things to discuss and make adequate decisions. In any case, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia were really doing what needs to be done, I wouldn't mind their absence from the Assembly. Since he's only making these suggestions, I don't really know what this is all about? During today’s day, the President of the Assembly said that the rules of procedure should first and foremost give priority to the wisdom of the language. I must note that, in any case, one who has certain verbal abilities and abilities must possess intellectual abilities for those verbal traits, manifest them and express them. So in any case, one symbiosis and a synthesis of brains and tongue must be present. I don't know how the president of the assembly feels about differentiating and separating his language from his mind. Finally, I would say that I am disappointed with MPs, above all DSS and DS, and these other MPs, but they are in a small number, especially after what the SRS MP Mr Stevo Dragisic said. Or, as he quoted what the MPs of these parties said earlier, a few years ago, when they were members of the opposition parties. In any case, as an SRS MP, I will not vote for the DOS Rules of Procedure because it is a step back in terms of already adopted democratic rights and freedoms. In the end, I am glad that after the presentation of MP Jocic, whom I do not see at the moment, (votes -- there are) members of DOS, I have learned that they are working successfully with the Socialists. Maybe it's one indication of an extended coalition. Still others are offering and waiting for a call to join the coalition. This, first of all, is seen by what they vote for each government proposal, and perhaps in this way you will realize that you have a quorum that is mostly missing during the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1492	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1493	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs, it is difficult today after so many debates not to repeat what MPs have already said, and they said a lot of things, and I think a lot of them were right, because it is most likely that we could meet today on the second agenda and on issues that are of priority for the state and for the people. We are criticising today that we do not have order here in the Assembly, which is ruled by indiscipline, and I say that this is also the state of our country, in society, and that it is being transmitted here to the Assembly. If there was order in the country, if everything was good, there would be no need to talk here at the pay phone. So that's our truth, and that's basically what we have at all levels. Today the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are on the agenda, as usual - amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and nothing new. Which means the Rules of Procedure, even if it was prescribed in 50 percent of the cases, and even if it was made new, wouldn't have caused this much controversy. Now, ever since we started working in this meeting, nothing has been proposed yet. This means that in several members of the Rules of Procedure one word or sentence, the position of the Rules of Procedure has been changed, so much so as to say that we have changed something. Several members of the Rules of Procedure have suffered major changes, in order to reduce the right of MPs to speak about the laws you propose and to compare the proposals in a democratic way, to see if we have a better quality proposal, and all in order to pass more quality laws in order to improve the functioning of the state. A proposal to reduce the rights of MPs to speak in the National Assembly is proposed by the party and possibly by the government, and MPs are electing the government, so there is obviously something that disagrees. I don't believe this Rules of Procedure is good for a number of reasons. And that -- because you've already suggested something like this to us. Nothing has been suggested properly so far. You've abolished the Ministry of Sports and Youth and attached it to the Ministry of Education, so now we don't have a good Ministry of Education, nor do we have the Ministry of Sports. The Ministry of Education is not well, there are no personal incomes, they are not increased as promised. And many clubs have been shut down, and you see what our situation is like and in top-notch sports. The results of your proposal are - you have proposed the Law on Amnesty, which is also going to harm Serbs, because it needs to free Albanians who have killed Serbs and are now doing it, day and day.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1494	Please stick to the agenda theme. The Amnesty Act was held at the second session of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1495	That's the topic of the agenda, you're suggesting this as you suggested, and we have to question it, so that's why we're comparing it. The law on television and information has given us the impression that citizens have the impression that television has been turned into a prosecutor's office and court. There's every third word of The Hague court on the diary, and by number -- how many times can it be mentioned in the Ginis Book of Records. That's why we don't trust you to believe that this Rules of Procedure is good. First of all, I think that today we had far more important questions than the Rules of Procedure that we could arrange, than to deal with how many MPs will speak, whether three or five minutes, whether they have a right to replication or not, in which order we sit. If we speak in quality and in the interest of the citizens of this country, let us speak for 20 minutes, because there is space. Some MPs will never speak for this speaker. The Rules of Procedure are not a priority. Citizens would be more pleased if today's agenda were the problem with power outages. Is it a more important Rules of Procedure than preparing for the spring set? Is the Rules of Procedure more important than the problems in school? Is the Rules of Procedure more important than the situation in southern Serbia, in Bujanovac and Presevo? Does not mean pulling out of the Pristina Corps that we will also withdraw from southern Serbia. Should we today discuss the Rules of Procedure or companies that do not work and workers who receive 2,000 dinars of wages? Is the Rules of Procedure more important today or how our citizens live and what can they buy from our wages at today's prices?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1496	Mr. Peric, I'm warning you on time and on agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1497	We've lifted the tax on the number and the electricity bills are even bigger. What I said last time about this phone booth was confirmed, "If you don't pay at the gate, you'll pay at the gate." In the end, what you want to abolish and narrow down the right of the MPs refers to the loss of the right name of the MP, but they also lose citizens who cannot hear the real truth. I know you're gonna say it's about being rational. I claim that we are not rational when we schedule the Assembly for one point and so on - amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, and you, President and Chairman, know better how much the people cost this day in the Assembly. Don't make it a "greater gift than butter" thing. The priority of the Rules of Procedure would be that as President of the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1498	I'd like to remind you twice that you've exceeded your time. You're already in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1499	The priority of the Rules of Procedure would be for Mr. President of the Assembly to advocate his authority, to bring first order any of the ministers or members of the Government, because what are their priorities and to whom they account. Who are they negotiating with about this country if they won't come and tell this congregation what's going on in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1500	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1501	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and one of my first comments is that whenever a new democracy comes to power, it amends and complements the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The first, earlier, when she was in the coalition with the SPS to amend this Rules of Procedure in 1994, the Rules of Procedure, which gave much more rights to the MPs. The rules of procedure reduced those rights and used it for six to seven years. However, even greater restrictions on the rights of MPs have now been introduced by this draft Rules of Procedure. What was going to happen to these Rules of Procedure? To correct some linguistic or grammatical errors or simply some terms, which are not detached, are replaced by our expressions. For example, verification is replaced by word confirmation, and otherwise they have the same meaning. I would, however, ask a question - is this the reason for the urgency of this motion decision? If we remind ourselves of the Rules of Procedure, the law can be passed exceptionally by emergency procedure, but only by emergency procedure can be passed by law governing issues and relations resulting from circumstances which could not be foreseen, and the adoption of the law by emergency procedure can cause adverse consequences. I see no reason to pass this law by emergency procedure, since we only have one more day until the regular session of this Parliament. The next thing she wanted to do with this law, I don't know if she's going to be the chairman of this House or be a teacher, or if she's going to be an officer, or if she's going to be head of a prison. How else can I determine this proposal, where it went from indent 5, in article 21 and add a new one -- the seating schedule of the MPs. It is something that is really embarrassing and embarrassing to propose to this House and that is exactly what MPs are discussing. Or thinks this new power to build a cinema hall out of this House, so when we get into the Assembly, they'll give tickets, numbered, so we know where we're going to sit. This right of this decision of justice as a greater right of the chairman, i.e. the President of the National Assembly, and is examined by the proposal of Article 22, in Article 74, where the President of the National Assembly can hire scientific or professional institutions, as well as individual scientific or professional workers, which is absolutely unnecessary and the President of the National Assembly has no need for such a proposal at all. The repressivity of this decision towards the MPs is seen as having almost no rights. They do not have the right to speak, they do not have the right to replication, on the proposal of the agenda, etc. This is documented by Article 27, which amends Article 100 of the current Rules of Procedure, where it is said that if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by the other MP, that the MP to whom the presentation is addressed is sought by a replica by raising his hand, giving the right to the President of the Assembly to decide, therefore, that he is arbitration, when the MP or head of the parliamentary group will have the right to replication, and the replica is a much broader concept than an insult or an ugly word, any MP's group. This proposal also violates some constitutional rights, which is in Article 29 where Article 122 of the existing Rules of Procedure is amended and said - is secretly voted by the use of the electronic system. It's simply impossible, because then secrecy is not guaranteed. The use of the electronic system is possible, but it is also possible to know exactly what MP he voted for. It has nothing to do with a secret vote. Just to say one more sentence, since this is the only way to address the people, I read the statement by Minister Knezevic two days ago, where he comments on what to do with Pristina University.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1502	You're out of time, it's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1503	Excuse me, just one sentence, he says the University of Pristina needs to be abolished because it's not under Resolution 1244. I must say that is an abnormal statement and, hopefully, a normal minister who cannot make such statements and bring panic and confusion between the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1504	The People's Messenger Bojan Pajtic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Veroljub Arsic. Excuse me, please, Mr. Dragan Markovic has reported with the right to receive a word whenever he asks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1505	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that in the past four weeks, the Soviet Union has not often reported for discussion, and we had no intention of discussing today after discussing the president of our party, Mr. Borisav Pelevic. We have lost another day, ladies and gentlemen, around the agenda points that do not concern Serbian citizens, nor have these MPs sitting here benefiting from it. The SS supported the government. We had consultations with the President of the Assembly two three days ago, and the president of the Assembly suggested that he propose an amendment to the interpretation. That amendment is not in the material. I don't see why there are no amendments and why citizens don't hear this amendment firsthand, what the government has been doing so far and what it will do in some future period of time. Someone from DOS said the former ruling party had only six sessions in 2000. It's in a year. In a month and a half, this is our fifth session, and we can have 500 of these sessions, and we cannot conclude any interest in the citizens of Serbia. Also, one of the MPs from DOS said these are small acts. Gentlemen, let's move on to something else. Gentlemen, you have a congregation majority, and this proposal depends on what this will be and what this congregation will do. If they had accepted this amendment today or if this amendment had been in the Rules of Procedure, today the citizens of Serbia could hear firsthand why educators have small salaries. We hear there's going to be a strike in education this day, and we know that we had a war and that our children didn't go to school at the time, we know that because of the restrictions the children didn't go to school. I have to tell you that the request of educators is justified and that the government is there she would explain why she would not increase the education workers' salary. If the government were here, she'd also say why healthcare workers have low wages. We know what the health situation is. If the government were here, she'd say why pensioners have little pensions and can't live off their pensions. Why workers, who are employed in factories, also have small salaries and why production fell from 40% to 80% in individual factories in Serbia. The government could explain this firsthand to the citizens of Serbia, not that we're fighting here and we're smart enough to talk if we're not in charge. The government has often mentioned, as well as DOS in the election campaign, transparently. Everything will be transparent, the citizens will know what it is transparent. I've had a chance to explain to the citizens of Serbia, those I've met these days, and they don't know what it is -- transparent. But the only thing that was transparent was the arrest, The Hague. It's transparent, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1506	I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1507	I'm sticking to the subject. I say this amendment is accepted and the government says what the citizens might hear. So I'm talking about the amendment. The Serbian Unity Party advocates the arrest of all who committed political killings and who have sinned against the law, but I advocate and ask that as soon as possible who killed Zeljko Raznatovic -- Arkana. We can't talk about only three murders on RTS, where Ivan Stambolic is, what about the Ibar highway and some other murders. We can't separate the murders and say that they're one of the front lines, and the other are not, these are political, and they're private. Also, DOS uses the word "transparent" to show how terrorists wanted to kidnap Covic. That's how the former government used to do it. I won't mention the names of the people who did it. Apparently, a group wanted to kidnap the president of the state, put it in the ski trunk and take it to Germany or Switzerland. They entertained the people for days and months.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1508	Time, Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1509	I'd like to use the second part, since I didn't answer for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Unity Party would not criticise the agenda in the past four sessions and in connection with this fifth session, that at least the federal government is discussing and caring for the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Yugoslavia. I must say, and you, honourable MPs, will agree to this, although a large number of you sitting here in some four walls have said so, but the citizens of Serbia have not heard this, namely, the federal government -- I apologize for mentioning it, but it is in the context of the agenda and the amendment -- that it is discussing the moment the war in Kosovo did not stop, when the war in southern Serbia began, about the return of property to the Karadjordjevic family. What has the Karadjordjevics been in charge of Serbia for the past 10 years? Why did we double the other citizens who also lost their property in 1945? The Serbian Unity Party is asking the Dossian majority in this parliament for the agenda points to be sent to Serbian citizens, as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia no longer have time to wait and listen to what they have stolen. If someone stole something, they have to go to jail. There comes a day and a time, dear gentlemen, when you'll have to tell me what the work report is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1510	There's a word from MP Bojan Pajtic. After him is the word of the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1511	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, unlike my predecessors, I will talk about the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This act has three groups of provisions. The first set of provisions concerns the normative alignment of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, with the laws adopted after the Rules of Procedure. It is the obligation of the Assembly to bring the Rules of Procedure into line with the provisions of the laws relating to certain matter. This applies first of all to the Law on the Selection of National MPs in determining the mandate, this refers to the Law on the Selection of Federal MPs in the Greater Republic, as the election is conducted by direct elections and this applies to the Internal Affairs Act. We've heard a lot of commenting on the powers of the Defence and Security Committee. Namely, the Defence and Security Committee had the right to control the work of the Security Service, which is a naked right, because there is no mechanism provided for by the Rules of Procedure to exercise such control, nor has anyone in Serbia under Milosevic's regime used the Assembly's board to control the security service. What we don't want is to make empty standards that no one will apply. In addition, this provision of the Rules of Procedure was completely inconsistencies with the Constitution and the law. In Article 73, point 11. The Constitution states that the Assembly is in control of the work of the Government, and the Government under Rule 90th point 7. Constitution and Article 21. The law on the government of the Republic of Serbia controls the work of the ministries. This specifically concerns the services of the secretariats and administrations that are within the ministries, which are even lower bodies than the ministry itself. This proposal also takes over certain provisions of the Constitution and of the Government Act, followed by a provision of the Constitution relating to legislators, provisions of the Labour Law in State Authorities, etc. It is not unusual to fully take over the comprehensive provisions of the law and the Constitution. And this was applied as a technical solution precisely because of the integrity of the arrangement of the congregation procedure. Of course, the Constitution is the highest legal act. But the opposition to the legal system and the constitution would only be if the Rules of Procedure regulated the area differently. In this case, the complete literal takeover of these provisions does not fall under this criticism. The second group of provisions refers to efficiency, i.e. improvement. We see what the meetings of the Assembly look like. We hope these changes to the Rules of Procedure bear fruit. And a consistent application of the Rules of Procedure would have produced fruit by now. In fact, only those MPs who have been offended by the other MPs have the right to reply. Unfortunately, here was the practice of giving me the word to every MP mentioned in the context in which he was mentioned, regardless of whether he was misread. Perhaps we should consider this too - that the replica is given in certain business situations, explicit, and it was also pointless to reward the MP who, by his offensive expression of the other MP, led to the right to replication, to reward him, again, for the right to reply to the replica, since this replica is treated in those provisions relating to the disciplinary responsibility applied by the President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. Otherwise, the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly is not the speaker of the Assembly, as it is in the UK. Practically, the president of the Assembly has much more powers, especially after the recall or resignation of the President of the Republic. The president of the Republika Srpska Assembly is another man in Serbia, right after the president of the Republic of Serbia. He's not a speaker, he's not the first among the equals. He was elected directly by MPs, but his powers are incomparably greater than the powers of the speaker in the British parliament. The provisions relating to the replica are sanctioned by those provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which provide for disciplinary responsibility - means a reminder, a takeaway of words, even a step away from the Assembly session, as a conjunction of multiple repetitions of the same offence. The current Rules of Procedure practically rewarded whoever led to the right to replication. It's a good thing we're proposing to abolish such a provision...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1512	Time, Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1513	It's an incident in normal countries with a democratic tradition, and it's not a rule. As far as the amendments are concerned, it would be absurd to allow all MPs to talk about a certain member of the law. One MP submits an amendment to a certain member of the law, and all MPs are hypothetically using their right, while remaining defined time for discussion as it has been in the Rules of Procedure, practically discussing a single amendment to one member of the parliament could last two and a half thousand minutes, meaning 40 working hours, i.e. Five working days. If the average law has 50 members, hypothetically, it could take 250 working days, which means a whole year. It's both hypothetically and practically easy to imagine. The third group of provisions refers to the control of the Assembly of Government. This is what the Democratic opposition of Serbia promised in its campaign, so parliamentary control, assembly committees over policy-making in certain areas, transparency and parliamentary control over law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1514	Since we have heard from the promoter here what he insists on in the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, it would be good to apply to the old one what he insists on, and that is the accuracy of the Rules of Procedure. In Article 118, it is said precisely -- "the MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them on their way out of the National Assembly Hall. If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves the identification card, the National Assembly Service will immediately deliver that card to the Secretary of the National Assembly." Here's an example, the vice president didn't draw the card, here's the second line, there's no card drawn, here's the second row on the other side, look, there's one example that's enough when you've broken the Rules of Procedure. Come on, show on this very Rules of Procedure how you'll be precise in the future and stick to this second part that you're promoting. Secondly, I wanted to take the opportunity to ask, as a clear MP, don't take this personally, President, you're often absent. I'm so worried. I'm honestly worried about what's wrong with you. Why isn't this place holding you? Either she's nervous, or I'm just asking if she's not an addiction or a disease. That was the case before with the president of the DOS Group, so we were worried too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1515	As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, you're right. I ask the Service to occasionally carry out its obligation and control where the MPs' cards are left. As for your concern, don't worry, there's someone who cares about me. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1516	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this session of the Assembly and the agenda itself is again a farce and marketing directed by the DOS. Farsa and marketing, because DOS after more than a month of establishing their government, no law has passed that promise in its election campaign. The conclusion of my colleagues down from DOS that this government and this assembly, in the last five sessions, is an extremely productive factory at least ridiculous, not to say, and nonsense. The laws you've passed are laws that are abolished. You abolish the Law on TV taxis, abolish the Law on Public Information, abolish the Law on the Special Rights of the former President of the Republic of Serbia, abolish the Rules of Procedure, which you pronounce and explain that the new laws, which you have planned to propose here, will not be voted on because of the Rules of Procedure itself. It's very strange and in some ways a little inexplicable. The abolition of the right to discuss MPs on any basis is the abolition of two fundamental democratic rights in every normal democratic society. The People's Messengers are chosen by the people. Which means that by abolishing the right to discuss, you are abolishing the right and the citizens who voted for the opposition parties, that their word is heard and their opinion is respected. It's not democracy anymore. It's becoming a dictatorship. And, more importantly, by abolishing this right to discuss amendments, if by some miracle the DOS government makes some quality bill, then the opposition's hands are tied to criticise such a law in principle, and then it fills it with amendments and turns it around, saying it corresponds to them and to those who have set up such a government. The purpose of the discussion is that each government and each legislator take great care of how they formulate the law and how they do it. Otherwise, it will come to the opposition's attack and solution both in front of the public and the citizens of Serbia that it is not the authority that the people voted for. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, it is not only clear to me whether you want to put the Serbian Radical Party and other opposition parties in the back rows and thus hide them from the public or whether you want to put them in front of the government in the refugee area, where the government should sit in refugee and thus fill the government's seats, while hiding the DOS MPs behind the Serbian Radical Party and hiding their non-presence in this assembly. A colleague here said it's a little boring to put cards in during the assembly debate and check the quorum during the vote and so on. I think some DOS deputies are not just bored, they're bored sitting here, taking part in the debate, so I'm asking why they're even elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1517	There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic, followed by MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1518	Dear People’s MPs, it is really hard to prepare for discussion when we are doing this by emergency procedure. This matter of urgency, and when this topic is about the Rules of Procedure, really, a man has to think about what's so much less important. If this parliament, which elected this people, so you said in the 200-billion-dollar campaign, we only have to come to power, and there in Kelebija, there is a 40-square-full-of-six-billion-dollar drop-off waiting for this government's "seven-seven-secred-secret secretaries." I understand what you're afraid of how we're gonna talk. You were not elected by the people, you were elected by the seven SCOY secretaries and given the right to defend their expert work. And the expert work we had the chance to see. Now you want to end this expert work with this Rules of Procedure, that is, the right to comment on this expert work. Don't be afraid, we'll apply the anti-worker, that's no problem at all. We'll talk from this pay phone, make sure. And since you from the Federal Assembly brought out chairs and tables and benches, here I am running, I will bring this miracle (shown to the pay phone) and we will take it out into the hallway and we will speak from there, if it can't come out of the hall. So here today we're dealing with one topic that's neither urgent nor important, but it's already worked out for you, why we've even commented on those four, five laws about breaking the law and creating legal gaps. That is why you are now trying to give the President of Parliament the right to be his students and students, to whom he will tell whether or not we are in the topic, and then, too, you are limiting our right to discuss in certain parts of the government's report at all. I understand why you can't discuss it. They chose you, how can you even discuss what they're doing. We will use it right, be sure, whether in this congregation hall or otherwise, and we will use it to comment on the government's work. When we talk about this government work, he's not here right now. There is objective pressure of the people and fear of what will happen to this state of Serbia, what will happen to Yugoslavia? You've been making a lot of announcements. From what I've been saying, to the pay of the strong, but what's going on -- we're being speeded up by proposals from the law of the Vojvodina Assembly, in which it's already announced, especially when I'm talking about finance, one more serious secession of that part of the territory, when financials are taken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1519	I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1520	This is about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1521	What do laws have to do with laws that haven't even come to mind today's session?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1522	This is about the subject, Mr. President, because you want to adopt the Rules of Procedure, which you will not allow us to discuss these laws, which you are trying to prepare for this assembly. Also, we will not be able to talk about what is happening in southern Serbia. You see, we can't even talk about what's going on in Kladovo, in White Palanca, you threaten people there, lynch them, threaten their families, children, that's what you did, and you did it in December. Today we are trying to limit all rights in this assembly by these amendments to the Rules of Procedure to speak, discuss and demand. The rights of MPs are also disputed so that they can participate in the debate in particular. When it comes to the efficiency of the work of the congregation, it can make sense when that congregation really brings something, some laws. When it comes to system laws, well, let's just say, we certainly won't bring you 70 kilos of amendments, because we've never done that. We will deal with the essential issues that are important to this people. We know you don't do that. It was a propaganda motive for you to deliver 1,000 amendments and talk about how smart you are, so you brought 70 kilos here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1523	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1524	This is the topic. Don't interrupt me anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1525	I didn't say the subject. I said time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1526	What you've interrupted me, it's about going into what I'm going to step over. So I'm thinking about the concept of what you want now -- you definitely want to prevent a more serious debate in parliament, because your MPs get upset when we make the arguments. The ones sitting in the O.R., the fewer sitting in the O.R., the more sitting there on the counter at the buffet. We heard here from a pay phone used in terms and it certainly wasn't in the subject of the Rules of Procedure, you were talking about witnesses and actors of the previous four sessions of the Assembly. Well, you may have been witnesses, but we were certainly the actors of those previous meetings of the Assembly. You're talking about a culture of spirit and dialogue in this assembly. What kind of dialogue are we going to have if you're going to ban this discussion from this pay phone, you've absolutely limited our time of discussion. That's why you can't complain all the time. We've allowed you to speak for 10 minutes. And you know, this Rules of Procedure that we adopted is the most important part of what you asked for, gentlemen, while you were an opposition. Today, some of your MPs say, when they were on the Legislative Committee, they say, we changed the government. Well, I guess you've changed a lot, and philosophy and government, and the way you dress, but surely what you haven't changed, you haven't changed your head, you're still the opposition. I can't understand you're the government in this country and you have to rule in favor of this people. Just to comment on another member you are proposing, Article 8, says, "The National Assembly can work and decide when the mandate is confirmed more than half of the MPs." When the Assembly in such an assembly works, then there is a serious problem -- what about the smaller half, whether the voting rights of these voters who have elected these MPs are at risk, and here we can talk about the absolute violation of the Constitution, in Articles 74, 75 and 76. The Constitution of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1527	Please, Mr. MP, if you don't finish immediately, I'm going to have to take your word from you, eight minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1528	Here's another sentence and I'm done. And when we talk about the work of Parliament, you gentlemen have a two-thirds majority. Parliament on the most important issues, such as the rights of the president of the state and constitutional issues, solves the two-thirds majority. Why do we need half? Why are you jeopardizing that, it's not clear to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1529	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1530	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, my first regret, when I received a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly was a lack of seriousness in the supply of materials. Because, indeed, when material is obtained today before the session, or at best last night, it is unusual to ask for quality remarks or suggestions to be made and to elaborate this proposal for a decision. Next, my apparition of the fact that the basic intensities of this proposal have decided to narrow down the right of MPs, because how else to interpret, when we heard from the quote, that earlier the opposition felt that this Rules of Procedure had rather reduced the rights of MPs, and now it is still going to be a reduction, and it is thought that it would be democratic, so you can figure out who the administration is. Now I'm going to point out the lack of it, maybe I'll come out of it a little bit, because I'm going to say something about one member, and just about him, in particular, and that's a member of the 34th of this motion decision. Article 34 says that after the debate has been concluded in particular and after discussions on amendments, the final word has been proposed, i.e. by a member of the government representing the law, and after that there is a vote. The practice of this brief session teaches us that if this member is not really placed in a framework governed by the Rules of Procedure, it can lead to a series of incidents, to misunderstandings, and I believe that no one moral or real would want it in this assembly. What it's about, you know, and in previous exhibitions, when a government official came out to give the final word, that it was actually a pre-election rally, that it was a mutilation or better said, one street dictionary, when it comes to the previous government or the SPS, and now the Rules of Procedure predicts that it cannot be replicated. Therefore, simply, I ask the President of the Assembly, there is a great burden and obligation on him, yes, using members 104. 105th and 106th. The Rules of Procedure, in particular 110, which states that all provisions on the agenda in this assembly are to be applied to those who are not MPs, or to representatives of the Government, so that they do not allow their authority and obligation as president of the Assembly to violate this article, i.e. the unwanted scenes and consequences that they can produce. I'm also worried - why are we always going to this emergency procedure? Many things in Serbia were to be found here today really as an emergency procedure. I will say only two - south of Serbia, it is not necessary for MPs to learn from the daily press, from television, to hear that yesterday was a relatively peaceful day, and from the people who live there I hear that over 200 grenades have fallen to that area, so I wonder - and what kind of day is not relatively peaceful? On the other hand, I would ask everyone here, and the President of the Assembly, and you as the most legislative body in Serbia, and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, to stop this political balance that is being conducted in some municipalities, and we plead that we are a legal state and we want democracy. That is why we have also advocated in the pre-election activities, especially the members of the DOS, that in certain municipalities there is such absurdity that in the elections that took place, of the 40 committee members, 35 council members have SPS and only 4 DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1531	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1532	I'm sorry, Mr. President, this is just one little trip, and I think you'll let me. I think, after all, that you must act, because I have seen the councils sitting in front of the congregation today and that no one has received them. I have to say, and I don't usually resort to using some hard words, but I have to say that it's a group of hooligans who came here to drive 35 out of 40 SPS councilmen, to ban them from working under physical blackmail and threat, by liquidating them and their families. I think that this assembly will indeed plead to be the National Assembly, when democratically decides to prevent such cases, not only in Kladovo, but also in many places where the Socialists have won. If we want the rule of law, we need to get in the way of that. If the Socialists had done it...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1533	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1534	The same would be done by the UN, both the SB and NATO and the European Union and all the media would say terror is being done in Serbia. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1535	Just to let you know, it's not a replica, just to let you know. It's not true what you said. People's committees have been accepted. There was a group here of about 20. She's gone and certain activities have been initiated, there's been a statement about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1536	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1537	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic, and then by MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1538	Dear Presidency, MPs, for the first time I am an MP in the National Assembly, and for the first time I have attended a debate on a document like this, such as the Rules of Procedure. The proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, according to the proposings, are motivated for two basic reasons. One is to increase the efficiency of this parliament's work, the other to prevent obstruction by opposition parties in parliament. With these two moments in the proponent's mind, I'd like to point to a few, in my opinion, controversial facts in all this. In particular, I cannot agree that the SPS and the MPs of that party, or parties in the Parliament's work so far, have been obstructing, acting inappropriately for this speaker, or have in any way offended any individual, minister, member of any political party in this parliament. Hence, this argument does not stand at the very least for the followers of the SPS. The second thing that seems important to me, and when it comes to efficiency, of course, we are not against more effective work, but it must be known that the proposing must also make such proposals for legislation and decisions for this parliament, which will come to the approval and majority, but also come to the understanding of opposition parties in this parliament. We must confess to ourselves and others, and the public is looking at us and noticing that the laws we have discussed in this House have been under-qualityly prepared and that, for these very reasons, they have caused an increased debate. On the other hand, Mr. President, I would ask you to allow me to speak, because this has been happening to me many times after this speaker, if I were not able to say what I am entitled to, as a MP. I am quite certain that in the discussions I have never hurt anyone, nor have I disturbed anyone in his discussion. I am speaking very specifically, I am talking about the Rules of Procedure, and I will stick to a few of the provisions contained in Articles 1 and 8 of this Decision. Article 1 of the decision provides that the National Assembly, that is, the president of the earlier assembly, must call on the National Assembly no later than the next day since receiving the election commission's report on the final elections. Although I am not a lawyer, it seems to me that this member allows the Republic Parliament to be established under the pretext of speed, and thus to prevent further legal proceedings concerning any complaints or complaints to the Supreme Court on the regularity of the elections. Regardless of who will someday and when the majority will be in this House, it seems to me that this provision allows for abuse. On the other hand, Article 8 also stipulates that this parliament can decide with only 126 MPs. I have no intention of accusing the promoter of inventing something that's wrong, but in any case I can assume that it is possible to come to the conclusion that there is a possibility of abuse and manipulation. That a variety of formal-legal wrinkles comes to the conclusion that, over a longer period of time, Parliament is actually working with only 126 MPs, who represent some kind of majority. And that the other MPs actually cannot participate in the work and decision-making of this parliament until the majority of 126 MPs have mercy. The next thing I want to say is the provisions concerning the possibility of submitting a government report on certain issues. I would be very pleased that in these provisions, among other things, there is the obligation of government members, ministers, even the president, if you will, to attend these sessions of our Assembly. Today we don't have anyone from the government that's probably justifiable, given that the Rules of Procedure are on the agenda. The experience we have from previous sessions suggests that during the largest time of the session, ministers and representatives of the government are not present at these sessions. Then how are we going to talk about some issues that are important for the future and more quality work of the government, unless there's someone from the government who can hear us? On the other hand, I have not noticed any restrictions on the minister’s conduct at the meetings of this assembly. You know there are ministers who are getting us this pay phone, who are distracting us. Is there any business policy that says that the minister must behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as required by the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1539	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1540	And finally, at the very end, a few sentences. Comrades of the DOS, gentlemen and ladies of the DOS, you must understand that in this House we are all equal Members of the people. That behind each of us, according to my humble math, stands at least 15,000 votes. So we have about the same number of votes, according to the number of MPs compared to the electoral body we had in these previous elections. You must respect that fact, and above all for the reason that there is a need, but also the obligation of the MP to represent the interests of the citizens who voted for his political party, and also for him personally in these parliamentary elections. Hence, it seems to me that the very rigorous restriction that concerns MPs is that I cannot take part in the debate on individual amendments to certain laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1541	The People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of God, Vujić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1542	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, since the constitution of the new Serbian Assembly we entered into the second month of work, this is the fifth extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament's work. The constitutional basis for making this decision is contained in Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the National Assembly governs the work, organisation and way of exercising the rights and duties of the MPs. The reasons for the decision must come from the need to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the provisions of the laws. There is no doubt that this issue is significant, but in these two months of work, in times of extremely difficult situation in southern Serbia, the difficult situation in Kosovo and Metohija, the catastrophic situation in the economy, the strike in education, and resulting in a socio-pathological virus, which has affected all social categories, we have not had the opportunity to express our opinion from this assembly speaker and our word on such important issues. The government of the Republic of Serbia has offered the Assembly to adopt the Law on Amnesty, which allows the citizens of Serbia to amnesty, while their victims are simultaneously trying to put themselves on the indictee's bench. The direct consequence of the adoption of this law is also the latest crimes that took place in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and then the bloody massacre of innocent civilians, i.e. Bus passengers at the Podway, killing cops. So, through Serbia, while terrorists are digging trenches, we are digging graves for our Serbian young people, for our citizens and for our non-emergent, and as long as this is more happening without this country's Parliament discussing it. NATO officials in Brussels are discussing the plan of the government's Deputy Prime Minister Nebojska Covic, and Serbian parliamentarians only learn about it from newspapers. The decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will help, I hope, to create conditions for the timely and better preparation of meetings of the National Assembly, as I see that today a large number of MPs at this session have received material, so as to strengthen the activity in relation to the adoption of a number of laws and other acts in power, as well as more precisely establishing deadlines for carrying out certain actions. One of the objectives of this decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on Labour is the implementation of a specific editorial amendment consisting of a time-limiting and greater clarity of the provisions. Dear fellow MPs, to remind you that multi-party parliamentaryism in Serbia's recent history did not begin by establishing this assembly, but by far now in 1990, in the first multi-party elections to come after political changes in Serbia, initiated and implemented by the SPS, which won 196 seats, well exceeding the current majority in parliament of 176. And this Rules of Procedure that we are changing today was adopted in 1994. I remind you that the opposition at the time also loudly announced the conquest of power. It is perfectly natural in a multi-party system to do so, as it is perfectly natural for the current government to allow the opposition to operate freely in parliament, which is the top of the political life pyramid. In the process of proposing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, one member was also to be installed by whom the President, or the Deputy Prime Minister, or ministers, was obliged to attend the assembly sessions, since they have been no longer present since the day of their appointment, except for individuals. Because today it is safe for colleagues Kragovic, counterpart Mitrovic, Trajkovic, Jaksic or any MP from Kosovo and Metohija today to ask Minister Gaš Knezevic who are the reasons behind him to abolish the University of Pristina, if we know that in addition to the determination of the Serbian people to remain and remain in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, the key role in the remainder of the Serbian people played both education and health. He says, we hear it's out of line with Security Council Resolution 1244. Is it in line with that resolution killing and kidnapping Serbs or other terrorism... (The President - please return to the topic)... All over the world, parliamentary traditions are being preserved and never changed as quickly as we might do today. Some have lasted even decades. We heard today what some of your leaders said on the change of Rules of Procedure in 1994. It is not disputed that technical improvements to the Rules of Procedure are being made, but this must not be taken into account by denying the elementary rights of the MPs to speak, because the very word parliament comes from the words of the parlara, which means saying. In other words, what is the Constitution for the country, it is the Rules of Procedure for Parliament. That is why it should always be remembered that nature is multiparty that the role of government and opposition do not change from time to time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1543	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1544	Ladies and gentlemen, it is an immeasurable contribution from DOS to the development of democratic relations in society and the establishment of a rule of law since the establishment of this home until today. In all five sessions, through the laws on the annulment of laws, and on the other hand the need for new legal solutions, and the decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have the opportunity to, in one plastic, transparent way, all of us here in the Assembly, and the public opinion see the range of your perception and knowledge of democracy. With the will of the DOS parliamentary majority, individual provisions of the Rules of Procedure will be repealed this time, with more rigid and restrictive solutions being offered this time. Step backwards in the development of democracy. Apparently DOS has cancer. What is transparent and above all and likable but also symptomatic is that through this proposal of the Rules of Procedure we see in the work of conflict within New Democracy. The signator of the Amendment to the Rules of Procedure is Mr Lekovic, and one of the officials of the Rules of Procedure, who you are changing, is Zarko Jokanovic. Rigidness and restrictiveness of the new rules of procedure are seen in favour of the speaker of the Assembly in relation to the MPs and the takeover of discretionary decision-making rights, in violation of the constitutional principle of equality of the MPs. The most dramatic example is in winning the right to replica, and especially in response to the replica of the one who caused it. Nothing less humiliating for MPs is the provision for ministers to elaborate a debate conducted by MPs in this house. The DOS parliamentarians' formulations in an attempt to justify the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure are unmistakable, unrelenting and in any case extremely much contribute to the efforts of the SRS MPs to prove your incompetence to the public. Justified efforts by enlighteners to resolve their material status through strikes and negotiations with DOS authorities have been used by the President of the Assembly to give us, personally, a pointless attempt at a teaching lecture on democracy for this same speaker. By listening to him, I have come to the personal belief that there is no difference between your democracy and communism. It is fortunate that the people in the next election will vote for democracy, but not yours. Many speakers have tried to challenge the way this assembly was run, as Mr. President of the Martians did. Here, I'll defend him. It is fortunate that you are now bringing this new Rules of Procedure, and I hope that in the new Rules of Procedure, expert interpretations and legal understanding will learn once and for all from the secretary of this assembly. In this way, he will help Mr. President of this congregation to lead the congregation more properly and better, not as he is doing today, as he has done, in a bad way today, trying to show us his own personal perception of the current Rules of Procedure. Today, more than ever, the very current Radoje Domanović once wrote: "Various miracles are in the world, and our country, as many great, is fertile with wonders so much that miracles are no longer miracles anymore." So I tell you that miracles pass, gentlemen of the DOS, and new elections will come, thank God.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1545	The word of the messenger of the people is Sredoiah Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1546	Dear President, honourable MPs, I see that the opposition has made us happy and I am very happy that she has discussed this constructively, which has given this topic profound importance, where she wanted to express her rhetorical abilities. I just want to remind you what it was like when we were the opposition and when they sent us at nine o'clock at night, that's all. We telephoned only that there would be a change of constitution, so in one day we changed the Constitution at an extraordinary session, recorded the candidate and elected president of Yugoslavia. We then allowed all three things to be done that day, trying to tell them that it was the worst humiliation that could happen to us. It is that we spoke and we tried to convince them, but they didn't have a word to say at the time, to participate in the discussion, but they felt that they should do so. I don't want to point them out, they know how to separate what's important from what's irrelevant. Then they didn't even use five minutes of discussion about those three extraordinary sessions, they just let us talk. So I ask you and I to let them go, people realize that this is a very important act, more important than changing the Constitution, than electing a president, and they only have to talk, their mental set is like that, and that's all they can say and make them happy, to make Serbia happy. And I just wanted to say, in public, to present what it was like when we were the opposition, and how they're doing it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1547	I'm asking for a replica. I'll explain, Mr. President, the predecessor was talking about the mental part of us that we're discussing here on the motion for a decision. It's supposed to be pictured over its mental circuit. He deceived the National Assembly, Mr. President, and said that for the night in the Federal Assembly, the constitution was changed and that the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was immediately elected. It is not true, the president was then elected in direct elections and that president is called Vojislav Kostunica, and you use your brain a little while when you go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1548	The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not the Assembly of the Presidents of Parliament Clubs, this is the Assembly of Members of Parliament. There are 250 of us, chosen by the will of the people. Anything found on the agenda in this congregation should be entitled to every MP to speak his word. I submit amendments to Article 22. Proposal on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to Article 22. The draft decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia deletes, which is why - the responsibilities of the president of the National Assembly are taxed in Article 32. I will also read this to you: The President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking care of the timely coordination of the work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, other tasks provided for in the law and this Rules of Procedure. This is incomprehensible, unless it is an absolute instability and the ignorance of the president of the National Assembly, that it is necessary for him to consult certain scientific and professional workers in this form of authority. Mr. President, you've shown great intricacies in your work so far, and then you probably need this kind of amendment to article 74. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I don't think this is the way, to this extent, to talk about important issues. I'm talking a little bit about an incident, and there's never been a serious debate about the state and national policy in this assembly, nor was there anything, which of course this assembly can't cover, and these are the foundations of a serious debate of all the political factors in this country about national policy. This change is characteristic after all. I must say that there is one tendency, that this congregation in general in its work is seen as purely legislative. We're not just here to pass laws, we're here to control law enforcement. It's just being stressed here once again, in one very important place, that we have the right to control it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1550	The People's Messenger Zeljo Huric has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1551	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I really didn't want my first performance in this honorable home to be this kind of character, but I was simply forced to say the following. During previous sessions by some fellow MPs, on several occasions, my people and the president of my party, Minister Rasim Ljajic, were very ugly. To tell those who spoke so badly of my president, that it is a man who is his own political education, his natural intelligence, so if you want his looks, a typical representative of his people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1552	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1553	You speak very badly of him. I'm sorry, Mr. President, but there's been a lot of deviations from the agenda here, and allow me, too, I'll be brief, I'll use the time I'm allowed. Another thing that makes you talk so ugly about him, not just because he's Rasim Ljajic, is that he's not the one you want. You have indeed learned in the previous period to bring those, not just in front of my people, but in front of other peoples, who suit you. Unfortunately for you, and fortunately for me, it will never happen to us again. As for the ugly speeches about my people, that will be said at the next regular session when it is on the agenda. (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the place: What is this of your people? My people are Bosniaks of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1554	Please don't throw away and ask the speaker to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1555	Just before the beginning of this session, I received a telegram from the families of those who were abducted exactly eight years ago, on February 27, 1993, in the town of Strpce. I have information that the same telegram was given to the President of the Assembly, and he will give his opinion on it. A year after the kidnapping, in 1994, when I was with the then president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Slobodan Milosevic, on the occasion of a new tragedy, he told me that every stone had been turned over in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they were not even stoned. I hope that the current government will realize that they're toning no snakes, no lizards, no worms, and they're not looking for them under the stones, but where they're all dead, deep underground. This will enable their unhappy families to execute the exhumation and to ease their pain. You can never forget that. I, with all the risk I've taken to be interrupted for this depression, and for violating the Rules of Procedure, apologize, and also thank Mr. President for giving me his word and allowing me to say this, and to you, gentlemen fellow Members, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1556	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the president of the National Assembly should have warned the previous speaker. I'm one of the most disciplined in this room. I'm almost the most in the parliamentary bench. I have not heard anyone speak offensively of any people, of any nationality or minority. You should have protected the dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. President, that's Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, where he says, "The MP has the right to go out for a pay phone." We did exactly what the gentleman didn't expect, with attention we listened to what he had to say. This is where the old story of the people of Serbia was stolen, you insult other peoples, you are criminals to other peoples, and no one can live with you. That's why we call it new countries. You've all read it here. Why, gentlemen? Where are the presidents of the parliamentary groups now? I claim on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party MPs that since he was a gentleman in the assembly, which is the only time he could hear any insult at the expense of his people, such an insult by Serbian Radical Party MPs has not been spoken. Which MPs were you referring to, sir? On DOS MPs? On SPS MPs? To the MPs of the Serbian Unity Party? I'm asking you not to charge the block here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1557	You're turning it into a replica, even though you're not mentioned. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1558	Let me tell you, Mr. President, this is so hard for me to get creeped out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1559	It's no big deal. You're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no need to creep out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1560	If you don't see what's going on behind this statement, I do. I witness all Serb tragedies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1561	I have interrupted the Messenger, as have other messengers who have strayed from the topic that is being debated today, without going into what they say. I did what I could. There is a word from MP Sreten Mitrovica. After him is the word of the People's Messenger Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1562	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the subject, unfortunately, of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. What I am asking myself, as a folk MP living in Kosovo, is which Rules of Procedure will restore the dignity of our lives in this country. Those of us who live in Cosmet, and even more of those hundreds of thousands who live in a refugee shelter in their own country, are interested in when, gentlemen, you will vote on your two-thirds majority that this is a country where Serbs live that they don't have a spare homeland. As for the topic you keep talking about, it's you who missed out on the subject, because you're dealing with how you'll be more comfortable with those who planted us with bombs, not how you're going to defend that part of the territory -- I have to say, to my great regret -- so-called. Serbia's rope...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1563	Please, we're talking about the Rules of Procedure. Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1564	Whenever Kosovo is mentioned, you are looking for topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1565	It's not a topic of discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1566	At a time when the Socialists were in power, she was uncircumcised. So, as we talk about the Rules of Procedure, we are being brought to southern Serbia by the new William Walkers, preparing some new fictional massacres in some new village called Račak. The massacre of our women and children on the Nis-Express bus...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1567	I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1568	I'll be back when I'm done. Our wives and children went to visit the graves of their dead on Suffocation Day. These gentlemen avoid calling things by their real name. Instead, they talk about major protests by Albanians in territory that has never been disputed before. I'm afraid as long as we are engaged in the restriction of the right of MPs to speak in this House. They're already thinking about how they're gonna get to Nis. As a Serb who lives and wants to stay in Kosovo, I wish everyone so much happiness in discussing the Rules of Procedure. My people chose me to represent him on the life and national interests of this speaker, not to participate in my own distraction while the enemy took our right to live. Thank you, gentlemen, for listening to me. I keep in mind that the people of Kosovo are bitter. Only when it comes to Cosmet is it bothers you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1569	He has the word Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened very carefully to so far's exposure. If we talked about the subject all the time, I feel like we'd be done two hours and more. This is just another proof that the existing Rules of Procedure had to change. If every neutral observer had followed the discussion, it would have come to the same conclusion. Why it took so long for the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure, I really don't understand. The proposed Rules of Procedure, we must understand, is not against any political party. He's not against any people, as we just heard. It's only directed against obstruction. We've got a little multiparty period behind us. I'd say it was a quasi-party. In that period, I guess we learned something. We should have learned, because indeed - one of my predecessors said so - in this congregation they should eliminate some of them forever, no matter who they come from. In the Serbian Parliament, there should finally be order. If we need to work on one law or decision, or any act we need to make, we need to do it seriously and we need to do it with a lot of preparation. I wonder why the most objection comes from those who have not taken part in the work of the congregation committees. I don't have much experience in the work of these committees in these months. However, I can assure you that there is much to be done at committee meetings, much to suggest, is very constructively approaching all problems. There were amendments that were made at the sitting itself and were mostly respected. It would only save us time here and that would only lead to us working faster and more efficiently. It is not necessary, it is even harmful, and I think it is a failure to respect the duties of the MPs, if, when we are discussing a decision that we are changing the Rules of Procedure, we are talking about issues that must, however, be in this Parliament, but there is no place for them to talk about a particular area. Kosovo is certainly a topic that is current and will be spent on a lot of words in this assembly. Kosovo is a problem that certainly burns us. However, if we are talking about the Rules of Procedure, then let us leave Kosovo and finish what is before us first. I think it's the duty of the MPs and I think it's high time we did this job and joined the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1571	He has the word MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1572	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I highly respect my colleague Budishin, but two parts of his sentence have led me to go out for a pay phone. He said that there should be order in the congregation at last. And he said, in the end, that we should finish the discussion and join the vote. Approximately, to translate, he said - we in DOS decided to adopt this Rules of Procedure as proposed and to give people no longer speak for nothing, it will be as decided in DOS. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have been forced to remind you that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly was adopted in November 1994. At that time, the Socialist Party of Serbia had 123 MPs in the Assembly, and with a coalition partner, it was most of the idolatry of the Rules of Procedure, which you now, in a certain way, are making more restrictive than at the time. So, I repeat, this Rules of Procedure was so democratically oriented, it gave so much rights to the MPs, that as representatives of citizens of every item of the agenda and of every member of the law they say what they think, even if this law is about Kosovo and Metohija, because here is the story of both Kosovo and Metohija, and of the salaries of the educators, and of the restrictions of electricity, about the inability that wants to have unanimity in the Assembly. Therefore, in this and such rules of procedure, you who consider yourselves Democrats are now reducing the rights of MPs and you understand that it is still democratic. Then the one before was really and how democratic. Ladies and gentlemen, we are representatives of the citizens here. We've been elected here by the citizens, to work in this assembly, each of us to the maximum. It can also be wrong, it can be ugly words to express themselves, and that belongs to the one who does it, his education, the corruption of his reputation and his last name and his family. Not everyone can get in the same basket. Everyone here has a job to do as much as possible and to help the bill promoter get a really hard criticism. It is not only in his interest, but in the interest of Serbian citizens who will have to rule under the law, who expect our legislative solutions to improve the work of the economy, to increase standards, to better live in the country, to pay regularly. And where are we? The subject is Rules of Procedure. The subject is the Rules of Procedure and the right to speak for this speaker as much as the MP estimates that a certain point can say something that can improve what is said. Therefore, we spoke with the President of the Assembly. The president of the assembly gave us representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia some ideas. There are good changes here, necessary changes due to legal solutions. But we have to tell the truth, you DOS tell the truth, there's no interpretation here. You're the opposition to impelation. Let's explain what this is all about? The right, which, above all in this situation, gives the opposition group the right to place 20 MPs directly, without the opinion of the majority in the assembly, the question of what is the plan for southern Serbia? What does the OSCE's arrival mean now? Is it really some new William Walker or some new Prick on the pier here? Will those who are clouded come to resolve now? We have the right to ask a question without your permission. It's an impelation. And the government's obligation to come to the Assembly and to explain that we are wrong about that and that and to be calm about you and to be calm about us. Or, if we're not satisfied, let's say there's a vote of confidence. There's no impelation. So, this Rules of Procedure, in addition to the good changes, we have to say, necessary changes, has a restriction. The restriction is, to be honest, which you in DOS have decided to discuss details. It is forbidden for all MPs to report and is only allowed to propose amendments, the draft legislative projector, on our proposal has been accepted by the president of the Assembly and this has entered, as can the president of the parliamentary group and the head of the parent committee. You think that's enough. Why? Because in DOS you agreed to do so in advance. I invite you, I appeal to you, listen to MPs from opposition groups, there are knowledge there, there are good suggestions, don't ad hoc, and priors refuse anything that comes outside DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1573	Anybody else answer for a word? - Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1574	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. I didn't say what was put in my mouth. That reminds me of some of Broz's old days when others thought and talked about me. I was just calling for this to end. I didn't say to vote, nor how to vote. All the results were in communist times known in advance. In democracy, that's not the case. One more thing, if Kosovo is mentioned, you know, gentlemen, you should have put it in this assembly on the agenda, so it might be different than it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1575	Branislav Ivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1576	I'm sorry, but each of you can take a look at the stenographic notes. I'm looking a fellow Budishin in the eyes and I'm saying, you said - it's time to introduce order in this assembly. Also, you said, let's stop the discussion and go to the vote. The appeal is clearly directed: stop talking radicals, something a little socialist and we'll vote this out and we'll go home. As for Kosovo, counterpart Vukic remembers, he was an MP, debated on Rambuje here, here discussed the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan. Therefore, everything that was important in the state was debated here, to hear the MPs and to hear the people over television screens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1577	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first of all say something about these calls to end and about the impatience that governs the parliamentary majority. I think it's really inappropriate and I don't know where the rush is, if we have any other points on the agenda, where we need to discuss the situation in southern Serbia, and since there's no need to change the agenda in an emergency session, I'm saying that because of citizens who probably don't know it, and they don't have the obligation to know. So we won't discuss it. I don't know where anyone's in a hurry or why we'd end a debate that couldn't bring better results. Don't forget that we are just planning to try to convince you to accept some of our amendments, especially the amendment to the interpretation. By the way, by the way, I say to those who don't know that they didn't get it right, the interpretation has absolutely nothing to do with the government's work report, and who here from this pay phone were saying, and something else, to answer to Mr. Ivkovic what he said -- it's true, we discussed the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, it could have been more often, but I have to say something, and that's the difference with what's happening today. Today, there is hardly anything to discuss but what was and how it was. No problem, they can discuss it all the time, all the newspapers, all the TV stations, they just discuss it, they spread it out, and how they come up with it, and what they think of, at least half of it, they figure out, they add to who they arrive at, what they arrive at, they fake half of it, but it's not particularly important. About what's going to happen, about the future of the country, about what our problems are, nowhere, nobody's saying anything about Kosovo and Metohija. And let me remind you, on the side of what is all who and how guilty, we were working against the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, but you said in the election campaign that the military and police would return to Kosovo and Metohija, is that correct, and that's why you got part of the Serbian votes in the Republic of Serbia. The military and police have not returned to Kosovo and Metohija. Let's see why, how are we gonna handle this? I guess there are smart people in this congregation who can do something about it, or help, or express their opinion, or at least oppose what is happening in our country. Let's see what's going on in southern Serbia. It wasn't before or at least it had no such situation. It was known there were some in the Goodness, but they didn't take up that much territory. It was not taken until November last year, when the turkeys were already in power, at the moment. So let's see what's going on now, what's this plan, why isn't it even discussed, why doesn't anyone want to talk about it? That's the essence of what I was talking about today. So there must be the public's eyes, "toss a bone to the people" to think about whether Milanovic was arrested for it or not. Eventually, when they let him go, he'll keep it all quiet, or someone else, or some third, some fifth or tenth. So I'm not talking about those who are accused, and possibly to prove themselves guilty of murder, but I'm talking about what's obvious, that people are innocently arrested. So that's the point - you're dealing with it, but don't deal with the essence of the problem. That's what's really true. I would take this opportunity, before we start to discuss in particular, to really appeal to talk about important things in the next period, about serious issues, about what is bothering the citizens of Serbia and to see how here, and what can we, as the highest legislative body, help and how we can solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1579	There's a word from MP Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1580	Dear colleagues, you'll allow me two or three words about the Rules of Procedure, I think I deserve it. What I'd like to say is this -- I think the obstruction of our opposition here could possibly have been resolved in another way, not by limiting the debate to two or three minutes, but by the way it's arranged in the rules of procedure of other parliaments, which is by determining the total time to discuss a particular legal issue. This could have been done, in order for the Rules of Procedure to be determined, for example, two or three hours, which provides for a debate and I think it may be possible to discuss it, so I am making it public, so that the Rules of Procedure would guarantee a minimal debate on a particular legal act, and then all other proposals would possibly be a matter of debate, but a total of time would be divided according to the political power of the parliamentary groups. So surely we would not be in a situation where the opposition is obstructing the work of parliament, because it will now resort to another type of obstruction, which is that each will submit individual amendments to a certain member of the law, so that we will actually be in the same situation. So I really think that maybe another approach could be done. As far as impelation is concerned, I also think it would be necessary to introduce an interpretation, if we said the DOS would allow the criticism of parliament and government control, but not that the impelation could, say, sign ten or twenty MPs. This number, in order to be a serious interpretation, we have proposed with Mr Simonovic in 1991, let's say 50 or 60 MPs, which means that it takes some serious topic and a serious reason to have a debate, and no one, as far as I know, has any of our opposition partners in this assembly. Therefore, raising the censorship of interpretation would be a clear explanation, possibly an opportunity for the government to answer some questions on its own. In addition, it is also possible that what's called an ordered interpretation, that we set ourselves up an interpretation, to put the government in a position to explain certain items. Moreover, our proposal (unfortunately, I have not been able to submit it) officially provides for a simple change to the agenda and, as can be done, a vote of confidence for the government. It's the essence of every interpretation. He who intervenes is obliged to state in this the way he would like that interpretation to end. Therefore, I think there is reason to think about tightening the conditions for interpretation, that it should not be thrown into its mockery and into what is not its purpose, that we should put in the required number, the sufficient number, the qualified number of MPs, in order that, when such a situation is created, we may possibly be able to discuss it. Which is why I'm saying it -- I'm saying it because there's us, a colleague, who was in the first, second, third, fourth, so we talked all the time, and now we're in an awkward situation, to be against ourselves. What we wanted and what we fought for all those years, when we thought that parliament wasn't democratic enough, would be good enough to at least make it possible, but I say once again, with enough, with a qualified majority, that on any issue, at any point really can't ask impelation. And just one more moment, about article 39. The proposal, a concrete suggestion, before we move on to the debate in particular, is said who has the right to discuss a particular amendment, and there is a member of the government left out. Unfortunately, this article 92 in the last paragraph says that a member of the government has the right to debate when requested. It is obvious that Article 33 and Article 92, last position, of the Rules of Procedure are in collegiate with each other, because, if we limit, so we say that the person who has submitted the amendment has the right, the rapporteur of the Committee, the President, or the representative of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative of the Government, then we have expelled an ordinary member of the Government, who, by the Rules of Procedure, if he remains this formulated, has the right to participate in the debate, or this Article 33, should be added and complemented so that a member of the Government has the right, and it will be reasonable that each member of the Government has the right to participate in the debate on individual amendments, and not only the one who is authorised. We have seen here that there have been attempts to ban individual members of the government in this way or to disable participation in the debate, that is what Mr Nikolic has proposed, but it would certainly be good for each member of the government to have the right to debate the individual amendment. If, of course, we accept that they can, I agree with the fact that obstruction is reduced in this way, that the proposing and all those involved in the adoption process are involved, but also in other members of the Government, preventing them from participating in the debate on individual amendments, it is indeed a bad solution, i.e. Article 92. Rules of Procedure and Rule 33. The amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1581	Tomislav Nikolic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1582	An emissary from the O.R., what does this look like? Are you nervous, ma'am? What it looks like, it looks like congregation work. I'm mentioned and I've been looking for a replica. Don't you look like a lady, what would you like to beat me up? I just wanted to help my colleague, Ambassador Pal, because he probably didn't have time to look at the amendments I made to the motion for a decision and, in particular, the amendment relating to the interpretation. And the amendment is identical to the proposal that we put together, as a group of MPs, in time as a group of opposition MPs, submitted to the National Assembly, at a time when the Socialists were in the majority, and in position of the 2nd proposal, it was said that the interpreter was obliged to write that he wanted the search to be completed. Therefore, this amendment provides for whether the resignation of the Government, ministers, etc. is required. Have you calmed down a bit?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1583	If no one is answering for a word anymore, and I ask you to stop the discussion from the scene and move on to a decision on amendments to Article 3. Proposal for a decision, or the new text of Article 6. The Rules of Procedure of the Amendment were submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. What's the matter? (Glass from the O.R.: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.) A Single Search? Well, dear gentlemen, have we started working and working all day with a single search, if this is a unique search, we will eventually adopt the proposal after considering the amendments. If there's anyone to object, I'm going with the amendments, so if there's any objections to the Rules of Procedure, there's no single search, there's no vote now, please let's keep working. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ) Does the amendment promoter want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1584	Ladies and gentlemen, I was just talking about this amendment. He's purely technical. It gives a name and name to a commission formed instead of a verification committee. I don't see why it bothers you. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be called at all. Since all the authorities of this assembly have their names, their names, I don't see what's wrong with this commission being called for example, a mandate-confirmation committee, when it's really about confirming the mandate. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1585	We're moving on to a decision on this amendment. I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 126, the two abstentions, were not voted by five, a total of 183 MPs present. I find the amendment has not received enough votes. To Article 3. Proposal for a decision, i.e. the new text of Article 8. The Rules of Procedure, amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Lazar Marjanski, Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be adopted and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? Acceptance. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1586	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1587	Mr. Nikolic is withdrawing the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1588	The procedure in this assembly is full of toothpicks, so you have to act on time. The MP can only discuss the pay phone in this room. These are our amendments. So I withdraw this amendment, because I am ashamed that you accept this amendment. I've submitted 16 amendments. Everyone's got a lead, everyone's got some logical connection, all the amendments are trying to make this proposal, which I'm not at all comfortable with, at least in some way make it better. That, to accept an amendment, which is indeed the correcting of a harsh error by the promoter, without accepting any amendment that I am trying to give Members of Parliament the rights of the National Assembly, which are guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws, to me, the right to tell you, is not appropriate. Why should I technically fix your proposals? You answer for them yourself, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1589	Is anyone else answering from the word promoter? Alexander Vukic withdraws, Lazar Marjanski pulls. I realize we've solved the problem here without a vote. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ) Do the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is part of what we've been giving you today, and just a little attention, this is going on very briefly now, so you won't have to waste much time. I see that it is very boring for some to be elected Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They'll probably have to get used to it. So we suggested that the words "on a proposal from the president" be deleted. We just don't understand why it would even say "on the president's proposal"? Why would such prerogatives, that is, put their hands on the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We don't know what bothered with the rules of the Rules of Procedure so far? Why would the number of vice presidents be determined by a special decision on the president's proposal? Well, isn't it much more logical that this is done under the agreement of MPs' groups or that it is specifically prescribed by the Rules of Procedure? By the way, as far as it goes and as it comes to mind the president of the National Assembly, so it will be. I don't understand if it's a new special function today. When it was, and I don't know, one of the DOS MPs was talking about the special powers and powers of the president of the National Assembly, yes, but in special and specific circumstances. Not here, within the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You are now trying to in certain ways, to force a much wider and much greater authority and much greater authority to the president of the National Assembly, who had no previous Rules of Procedure at all. Please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1591	Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1592	You have a DOS party where even MPs do this job, you don't need me to... Through this whole proposal, one idea is to separate the president of the National Assembly from the other MPs. There are now some decisions to be voted on by the National Assembly, to which the right to propose is exclusively the president of the National Assembly. It's really incomprehensible. We 250 MPs can't choose the people here, and then someone can tell us by internal act, but now you're not equal, even though the Constitution tells us we're equal. A member of the Constitution, and here I'll quote -- article 78 says, Mr. President, that we should choose you from the ranks of the MPs. So you're the People's Messenger. You're just doing some other activities related to the organization, representing the National Assembly, which have nothing to do with legislative activity. With regard to legislative activity, billing, participation in the session, you have the same rights and obligations as any other MP. Why did you need this, gentlemen of the proposers? The assembly has five vice-presidents, the number of vice-presidents elected in each constitution. Why would he propose a president of the National Assembly? It is now likely related to the Government Act, which you have changed, where the Prime Minister proposes the number of Deputy Prime Ministers. The president of the National Assembly is not the Chancellor. He's just the same, one of us. And, I wouldn't, because there are two other amendments that are identical in their form, so I don't explain myself, I won't even report on those amendments, but it's really incomprehensible, for example, the deputy secretary of the National Assembly suggests the president of the National Assembly. The secretary of the National Assembly is proposing a president. Well, he's not the secretary of the National Assembly. He's the secretary of the National Assembly. The president can propose it, of course, he is an MP, but he can also be proposed by Mr Jocic if he is capable (Jocic, from the post - Wazdan). Okay, let's not talk about it. Obviously something's wrong. He can propose it to any MP. Now you're preventing the MPs, you're taking away their rights which, I don't say, guarantees the Constitution, doesn't even have to write in the Constitution, so I guess we're even, with the exception of being in power, someone in opposition, so whoever's in power thinks he has more rights, and whoever's in the opposition has to fight so hard to exercise some of his rights. So, you're not losing anything with the amendment to this point. Just that the president of the National Assembly really realizes that he's one of us. If you start to separate him from us like this, who knows what else you're going to let him do, and the other MPs can't, they can't, and they can't vote on it. So please make this mistake, I hope you'll correct it. It may occur to you that the president of the National Assembly is torn from the will of the majority who chose him. Then you won't be able to fix this anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1593	I ask that we determine the quorum before the vote. I'll tell you, because it's a unique search. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Please vote on the proposal. For 39, against 124, abstentioned 15, 5 did not vote, a total of 183 MPs were present. National MPs Bozidar Vukurovic, Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have proposed this amendment not to give such prerogatives to the president of the National Assembly, as Article 24 paragraph 1 says that the candidate for the secretary of the National Assembly is proposed by the president of the National Assembly. Why did we do this and why this is another thing that is contrary or incomparably less democratic than what we had in the existing positive -- legal rules, as a sublegal legal act. First of all, this is taking away the right of the National Assembly, i.e. the Assembly's majority to elect a secretary by the same procedure as the President of the National Assembly, as has been the case so far, already appears on the president's proposal. I will explain on the next amendment why this was done and what is, in fact, a motive, especially related to the deputy secretary and the story we spoke of in the National Assembly. Of course, the public in Serbia was not informed because none of the arrests were of interest. It was a question of Deputy Secretary Marica Savic, who was not resolved in the National Assembly, and we received an unmistakable interpretation, an illiterate legal secretary of the National Assembly, which said that by establishing a new National Assembly, that is, a new convocation of the republican parliament, had ceased her function. That is absolutely impossible, and now it is proposed to the next member in amendments and additions, so in this decision that DOS proposes that we adopt today. That is why we believe that this is completely illogical and that it was more incomparably arranged in the positive rules of procedure and that it should remain the way it was. That's why we suggested that this member be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1595	Anyone else answer for a word from the amendment promoter? (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post - Can any MP? Well, not every MP can. No, this is... Do you have any objections to the Rules of Procedure? Come out, don't leave the place, you have a pay phone, you have a pay phone, you have an article, you have everything right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1596	Please, Mr. President, we've decided here that we have a unique debate. Article 145. The Rules of Procedure say the National Assembly decides on the amendments submitted in accordance with the order of the members of the bill. If several amendments have been submitted to the same member of the bill, the amendment proposing to delete the provision of the member shall first be decided, and then the amendment proposing to amend the whole member. The amendments submitted by the legislator and adopted by the relevant committees and by the Government, as well as amendments adopted by the legislator, the committee responsible and the Government, become an integral part of the bill's proposal and are not particularly decided by the National Assembly. It's a special decision on the rest of them. The National Assembly shall, in particular, decide on any amendment that the legislator, the committee responsible or the government has not accepted. Where it says so, especially when the public debate here is unique, that we cannot take part in the discussion on every amendment. You read me that member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1597	You tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure I broke.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1598	Please tell me on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure you are making it impossible for me to go out for a pay phone and make my position on the subject of this amendment. Is there such a member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1599	There is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1600	Read it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1601	There is, and it is a member, although it is not mandatory for me to quote that member to you, but you should say which one I broke, so you can call on that one and say I didn't apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1602	Here, you teach me as President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1603	Let me answer you. It is a member who determines that the MP can speak within one item of the agenda only once and unless the discussion is exhausted that he can get a word for the second time. Since this is a unique search, since a search is carried out not in principle, and then in particular, the MP has the right to speak within one point. It's just like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1604	Well, we just got here, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1605	If you find me where it says otherwise, I'll appreciate it, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1606	We've just come to what, Mr. President, which is why five minutes is a little bit to talk about the law in principle, if we don't already have the opportunity to talk about the law in particular. Here is the promotion of the Rules of Procedure in that direction, which leads to democratisation and which obviously wants to only make it impossible for MPs to contribute. There are among us here and professional ones, you said you were unprofessional, but there are experts who could help improve the text of the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, you have no hearing of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1607	Are you satisfied with my explanation or are you asking the Assembly to plead? No need, thank you. Then we can keep working. Any of the amendment applicants come forward for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1608	If no amendment is adopted to this article, if it is not deleted, you will receive an absolutely illegal Rules of Procedure at the same time. The President of the National Assembly cannot be given these powers because your rules of procedure do not provide for a change in article 32, which says what the President can do. Article 32 does not mention these changes and additions to the Businessmen anywhere. Article 32 says the president of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for by the Constitution, and the Constitution does not give him that right. He chairs meetings of the National Assembly, takes care of changes to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, performs other tasks foreseen by law and this Rules of Procedure. The law, no law so far, gives the president of the National Assembly the right to propose the number of vice-presidents, secretary of the National Assembly, unless you change a member of the 32nd Rules of Procedure. If you don't change it, then the president will have powers that the Rules of Procedure does not give him, does not give him a member of 32 who clearly defines what his rights and obligations are.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1609	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision on this amendment? Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please state by voting on the proposed amendment. For 46, against 124, abstention 13, no vote was made by 8, and a total of 191 MPs were present. I find the amendment the National Assembly has not accepted. Now it's ten minutes to 9:00, do we have any suggestions to reconsider the decision... We can, but your will will be, I don't have that suggestion, now it's 9:00, and we have 34 amendments. Maybe there's a chance that your efforts will give us enough time to explain the amendments tonight, so we can end this late at night. So one proposal would be to keep working and try not to schedule a new session tomorrow, and the other one will hear now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1610	Mr. President, we've been here since 10:00 a.m., some of us left this morning at five or six hours from home, and we've been keeping an eye on all of this, to explain certain amendments, we don't have the strength to physically endure it. You just laugh, and in the meantime your MPs leave the gym, go home, and the gentleman sitting in the front row is drunk and so on. I'm making a proposal to work until 9:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1611	First the Rules of Procedure, then the next proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1612	Today we've been considering a further course of the session. There were three suggestions. Your proposal has been adopted - that the Assembly continue its work in the afternoon part of the session until 21st period. I have answered the word that I would suggest that it be something shorter, that we work until 19.30 hours, given (here, now it has been shown) that a large number of amendments submitted by the MPs, especially from the Serbian Radical Party, require and give the opportunity for MPs to explain, each individual, amendments. I warned you not to violate the Rules of Procedure around the 21st hour, which you are now doing or intending to do, i.e. Article 83. The Rules of Procedure, which says exactly: "The National Assembly sessions are held between 10 and 17 hours, with an hour and 30 minutes apart, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise for certain days. The decision is, as a rule, at the beginning of the working day." Mr. President, you've taken advantage of your business opportunity. You made a motion for a decision. Your decision has been made by the majority. No more playing. You once informed the MPs. You made a suggestion. You had most of it. You had to judge differently today, not crush the Assembly in a hurry and finish when you want. You cannot - according to the Rules of Procedure - make a new proposal for the Assembly to continue its work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1613	I have to answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1614	Don't answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1615	I have to answer that, because it says in the Rules of Procedure that I am obliged to answer you. I respect that duty, so I answer to you. We've had the same discussion twice in the course of today, on your same remark. You have received the same explanation - that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is possible, however, that it really says "by the rule", but you know very well that it does not mean the obligation, but it leaves the possibility in accordance with the circumstances, that the Assembly decides differently. I really don't have a clear suggestion. I'm just suggesting that the presidents of the parliamentary groups, without our departure from the O.R., agree on that. They've reached consensus. Given that each session costs 7,000 German marks, it takes our little effort to stay for another two hours. It's a significant savings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1616	I'm not happy with your answer. Please put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1617	I'll put it to a vote. Before the vote, please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put to the vote the proposal by Natasha Jovanovic, the MP of the people, that is, the objection that the Rules of Procedure has been broken. For 44, against 134 abstentions, 9 did not vote, 191 MPs were present. The word was asked for by Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really need to speak to the President of the National Assembly. There are, Mr. President, provisions that are not voted upon, provisions completely clear, completely clean. To ignore them, you would have to change the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This provision is quite clear. This provision says it's hours from 10:00 to 5:00. It's a rule, and it allows for the possibility of changing working hours for certain days as a rule at the beginning of the working day. So he doesn't have to at the beginning of the hours. You're right, which article 83. The Rules of Procedure gave, used today at 17 o'clock. It doesn't say here that every hour, or every two hours, you will have the right to harm this member by using the same rule. This right is one time. You used it, Mr. President. Only once do you have the right to, eventually, not at the beginning, but later determine a new time. I warned you at the last session. You can't do it all the time. You can't suggest we do it for another hour and then another hour. We don't even know when we're gonna be done or how long it's gonna take. Secondly, there's something that needs to be made clear, Mr. President. There are physical possibilities for man. And if they weren't such business opportunities, here we are, predicting that we are working eight hours effectively. According to your proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, eight hours and an hour and a half, it's nine and a half hours in the National Assembly. When you start at 10:00, it's till 7:00 and 30 minutes. We're working until 9:00 today. Not now, at 21 o'clock, to tell us that the session costs 7,000 German marks and that's why we have to work until we're done. It can't be like that. Of course, he can do anything. Radoman Bozovic told us that with 48 MPs he can prove the country is fourth. But he was frozen in the people. For just one short time, you can do what individuals in the SPS and JUL did without being punished for it. The elections gave you the right to use that right for a while. For the people will say, Stop, I have asked you to live better. I asked you to save southern Serbia. And the only thing you can do is make the mistakes that the government has made so far. The only thing he learns is to make mistakes. Is there anything good about you, People's Messengers?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1619	Now we're moving on to some replicas. I owe you an answer. I think that member is very clear. You keep talking to me like I'm making decisions, like I'm making suggestions. I was just asking whoever wanted to propose. Maybe you didn't hear me. I said there was an idea. I said there were proposals from MPs. I said MPs meeting and agree. It would take shorter than this distraction with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, although the objectors know exactly that there are no violations of the Rules of Procedure, because there is an answer in Article 83. Sessions of the National Assembly shall be held between 10 and 17 hours, with an interruption of one hour and 30 minutes, if the National Assembly, exclusively for certain days, decides otherwise. That decision, as a rule, is made at the beginning of the working day. I can consult a stenogram. [[Sagar.]] We said that, as in the previous sessions, we would decide again. Here, Mr. Jovic says he can. I'd like to ask you to help, if you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1620	I would, first, speak in principle, and then expose one position. Please, indeed, since 18 March 1994, as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since we, as the Government, have always attended the Assembly's meetings, we have actually attended many meetings of the Assembly, the Rules of Procedure clearly say, "The decision is made at the beginning of the session." We didn't take advantage of that rule at first, but we made a decision at the end of the session. Until now, what is now happening has never happened, or is suggested to be considered as a possibility. It's not a respected rule. The decision was made at the end of the session. According to the Rules of Procedure, as has been interpreted so far, we need to finish our work at 9:00. Second, we need to work from 10:00 to 5:00. It is according to the current Rules of Procedure, which is still in force. An hour-and-a-half break is scheduled. I have to notice that we don't have the regularity of that break, that the 13 o'clock break, at 14 o'clock, at 2:30 p.m., so each of us who has other obligations, because we have different obligations on different issues, absolutely can't plan when the session of the Assembly is his time. Since the decision was made 17 hours ago, that we would end at 21 hours, people have planned their time and obligations in a certain way. It's not a respected rule. A decision was made before the end of business, but it was made. I mean, this job we're doing is serious. If you really want this to get out of hand the way you've solved it, we're gonna stay tonight, we're gonna mess it up, but respect the people who want to live organizedly. I believe that the moral obligation of everyone in the Assembly and Mr. President, whom I highly respect, is to make it clear and loud that the Assembly, apart from some terrible situations -- war dangers, a new Walker in southern Serbia, etc. - in the future it will only take 10 hours to 19.30 hours and it will be known, for example, that the break is from 13.30 to 15 hours and - point, that it will not depart from it. Like this, people can feel absolutely underrated. I ask that the decision be respected and that at 21 o'clock we finish, and that we continue normally in order and peace tomorrow. If you insist, and if you make that decision, we'll stay here, but the feeling remains that it's all messed up, because you decided to make it a mess.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1621	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out to you the wrong interpretation, but this should be done by the secretary of the National Assembly to point out to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that one of the basic legal principles has been violated in Article 83. On two occasions, Mr. President, the term "regular" and "extremely." It's one general legal principle, one known legal principle since the oldest time, since when there's the right as a form of social consciousness, if you will. These ladies from the women's political network are really very impatient. [[Sagar.]] You seem to need something more than the Assembly. I ask you to behave yourself and listen to the people's messengers who work. This legal principle is that exceptions should be interpreted closely. To confirm and show you that this is no exception, that this is not an exceptional case, I will remind you of previous sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where you have also done so. You used and abused it extremely, and you ignored it. It's impossible for this to happen at every session. I want to tell you one practical thing. It's no problem, we'll stay for one hour, and up to two o'clock a.m., but I want to point out that there are people who worked in the National Assembly today. This is, like, the 20th time I went to a pay phone. I do not even know whether it belongs to the Rules of Procedure or to the proposal for an initial act proposed by the DOS. But if that's what you want, there's no problem. I have no doubt that it was easy for those who were sitting or going for coffee, so they came by a little bit, nor were they interested in the debate, nor were they interested in anything, and in particular they were not interested in what the messengers who thought otherwise had to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1622	He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1623	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the quality of our work together today, the citizens' judges. Those who were eyewitnesses and of course we as actors have an opinion. With a lot of what has been said by the former government's representatives, I would refer only to the question of the suspension of freedom and the rights that we have been set up to propose amendments and additions to the existing Rules of Procedure. Freedom and rights mean the obligations, freedoms and rights that you, as an opposition, enjoy in this House, also entail obligation and elemental responsibility. When you're talking, Mr. Ivkovic, about dating, it's your turn to say that we are here discussing amendments that are identical in a capital letter, in a small letter, in a sentence, absolutely identical, which are an example of the classical destructive obstruction of the Serbian Radical Party. Both Mr. Vukic and Mr. Nikolic, all radicals have proposed identical amendments and signed themselves as individual promoters (radicals are being denied). Since you are here today seeking respect and respect for the needs of our society for more efficient work, we are ready to count the number of our MPs and see if we can continue this work without you and in any case complete this session by emergency procedure. I propose that we continue our work until the debate is fully completed and the draft amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure are adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1624	He's got the word Alexander Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I am surprised by Mr. Jovanovic's appearance, because it is obvious that he did not listen at all to what we were saying today. He didn't listen, he didn't care what the committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were doing, and he didn't care what amendments we proposed. It's not true at all that it's about the same amendments. There's one number of identical amendments, but they're not all the same. And, it's not a big and small letter, because at the beginning of today's debate as one of the reasons you cited language corrections, technical editorials, which would be more professional, and that technical editorial you conducted in such a disastrous way that we had to conduct a technical editorial in our amendments to your amendments and supplement this decision on the Rules of Procedure. So that's something that's totally amazing. On the other hand, we've been telling you all along about very serious things, first of all, that you want to deny the right to speak to the MPs about the amendments, which is much more serious than whether you've made a pleonasm or some other language slip. Also, we were saying that you wanted to put MPs in a cage, because the Administrative Board will determine where any MP in the National Assembly will sit. We talked about many other things that are more serious than whether it's a small letter or a big letter, and about a small letter and a big letter, you started talking, and we just pointed out that some in the professional services and those in charge of it, don't know where the small letter should be. It's not our fault. There's no problem, we'll keep going as long as we have to work, and it's no big deal that we're gonna keep working. But next time listen to it, and I've given you a chance today, and now I'm giving you a chance again, so come out and say one single standard that is democratic and that gives you wider powers and greater rights to the MPs, whether they belong to the government or belong to the opposition. Just give me one standard. There's no norm. This is the problem of today's ruling majority, it proposed an act that intimately and a large part of its MPs disagreed. There's nothing. We propose an interpretation in a serious way, with as many MPs as it was in the old days, when Pal Shandor supported it. Today he says he can't do that, but maybe they'll accept 70 or 80, and then they'll throw out a mocking-up, because the opposition can't put the whole thing together, so they're going to set it up for themselves. It's the essence of our work and our action today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1626	Replica - Branislav Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1627	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I highly respect the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr. Chad Jovanovic, but this time I must resent him. I have to blame him for that, the truth is there are several similar amendments, but most of the amendments discussed are different and very well processed. Mr. Pal Shandor remembers well that he was just working on these amendments, especially when it comes to the amendment on impellation. It is also his disembarkation, where he then proposed a number of 20 MPs, immediately increased to 60 and 70, talks about how a man changes, depending on whether he is in opposition or position. Probably also points to how a man changes if he moves from position to opposition. However, it is not good for this parliament to work that one threat at the end -- we will count ourselves, so we will work alone. Because, I must say, in your statements, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, they spend all their time being nervous and impatient, which is what someone gets the idea of getting involved in a debate about something that you've already decided. Be wise in that situation. You better hear this difference from 250, less 176, because those proposals adopted by this congregation will bear the seal of you. I will not wear a stamp that has been lifted on television, when other countries in Western Europe are introducing and it is known that money will now be counted in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to wear a stamp on the Law of His own transformation, you wear it, you lift it. But listen to some things, there is a desire for these MPs to get better, it will be better and besides, Mr. President, our decision is now in effect at 9:00 and this assembly is no longer in session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1628	Replica - Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in this room, the wishes of certain MPs of the ruling majority are felt that the opposition leaves the hall and that the work is done faster. Maybe it's a normal wish, but she can't be said by the head of the DOS parliamentary group. It's not like that "D" from democracy. You can't be glad we're out of here now, so you can finish the job you're about to finish. There's one other thing. It happened to me, as an opposition MP, until half past three in the morning to work in this assembly, but the Socialists did it more wisely. In the extension proposal, they asked us to work until the agenda ended. If you were so wise, that he was wise, who runs the parliamentary group, he could go out for a pay phone at 5:00 and say, Mr. President, I suggest we work until we finish this agenda. We wouldn't even mention it right now. But you came out here, believing that the debate couldn't be over and suggested a normal rational working time until 9:00 p.m., because you yourself know that it can't work effectively anymore. Now that you see that maybe in an hour it could be over, now you're saying we're looking at a decision on working time. I'm telling you, I have 15 more amendments and I have every right to explain for five minutes. They're really important. I'm gonna have to explain them properly. And another untruth that was told about the parliamentary group -- we didn't agree at all on the form of amendments, nor did we suggest to any MP last night to which members would submit the amendments, when we saw it at six o'clock last night, and this is not true, because of the public speaking, which has no amendment, and not because of you MPs, because of the public who doesn't have an amendment -- it is not true that you have the same amendments to the SRS MPs. You have completely different ones. Once, we had 70kg of identical amendments in this congregation, but then the Democratic Party submitted them. Don't judge us based on who you were. Mr. President, you have a very clear task, to realize that nine hours have passed and that we are now talking, let me say, informally. We're still being nice, there's a line in the session, but this isn't a session anymore, it's now 9:15. At nine we warned you about it and you said - I have a watch. I know you have a watch, but look at it sometime.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1630	There's a word from MP Pal Shandor, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1631	I'm not changing, Mr. Ivkovic, just like you think. I have always been for the Institute of Interruption to exist in the Rules of Procedure, and even now with that, I have only evolved a little bit, studying the rules of procedure one dozen parliaments, so I have therefore suggested that maybe the number of 20 signatories is small, and that the number of 50 or 60 signatories for more serious subjects, which may require discussion in parliament, is qualified most of which is needed. So I'm not inconsistencies. You're inconsistencies, because when we asked for our own timely interpretation, then you wouldn't allow it. I'm up for it now, and I think it's a democratic institute, and in some ways it might need to be installed, but there's really no way that you're accusing me of changing my mind. I don't change my mind, everyone has the right to upgrade their proposals in certain nuances, and I think that this kind of proposal, if it takes 50 or 60 signatures for some serious topic, is such that it could be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1632	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1633	It's not my job to answer to the representatives of the former government. However, those who doubt the democratic principle of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia's Rules of Procedure should consider the vote held during today's session, where DOS MPs made their views clear with their votes and stance on the opposition. I would remind you that at the time, the president of the SRS had one proposal, which we did not accept, concerning the dislocation of the SRS parliamentary group. As for the face with which we go public and the MPs, I have two documents. They are exactly identical, with a capital letter, with a small letter, with a score, a date, a time in which they are submitted, only differ in signatures, 16 amendments by Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, 16 identical amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before some of them smile, they should know something -- I said, some of them are identical, and only two of them are identical, and I took them to the office this morning, because the amendments arrived late last night, and this morning at the same time, which is why two of us are going to the office, one of them took to the office, and all the other amendments were different. And you made it up again, Mr. Jovanovic. And don't, when you don't have the arguments, think you're gonna make something happen. It's not gonna happen. That's two, and I said, I thought there were even more of them, and everyone else was completely different, because everyone else was bringing them at different times and the text of those amendments was different. And you, in 1995, brought to this National Assembly over 75 kilos of identical amendments, the exact same, the Democratic Party. Why are you so nervous? Why are you so worried? Over 75 kilos, and it was democracy, and no one was against it, and now because of the two lists, you're going to say it's not democratic. The bottom line is that these are really different amendments, and what's the same, and it's not bad, and it's good to study it better and hear it twice, so maybe something that's very smart and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1635	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after just 27 minutes of debate on whether or not we're going to decide whether or not we're going to continue to work, we're going to come to a decision on this. Since 20.50 hours, we've been having this debate. So we have a proposal to continue the work. Was there a proposal before that? (Milorad Mircic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure). Here you are, Mr. Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1636	I fully understand the desire of the majority in this assembly to finish the job as soon as possible, to adopt a new proposal for a Rules of Procedure that the Assembly will work on. In part, I also have an understanding of the insistence of the president of this assembly to continue the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1637	Please quote a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1638	Wait, I'll quote, slowly, why are you impatient? This session is over, but apparently, President, you've overlooked Article 83. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1639	That's what we've been deciding, Mr. People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1640	Oh, great.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1641	Then please leave the pay phone and get back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1642	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1643	I'm taking your word. That's what we've decided, please come down. I can't give you my word, that's what we've decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1644	Don't, please, how do you know that I'm going to give an explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1645	It's not about an explanation. It's about a member. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1646	First, to turn on the microphones, to explain, because I have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1647	Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1648	You'll either give me the right to the Rules of Procedure, or you'll have to do it a little differently. I have to explain, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1649	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving a five-minute break, and then we'll get back to work. [[After break - 21.50.]] Once again, I ask you to insert the cards so we can continue our work. Please insert your cards. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I thank Mr. Mircic for solving the problem this way. I ask Mr Jovanovic, does he stay on the proposal to continue his work? He's staying. Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1650	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, I'm just asking you to admit that you have violated this assembly's decision to work until 9:00. Nine hours ago, you didn't put the motion to vote to work longer. You were obliged to realize at nine o'clock that the work had been completed and to make it impossible for any MP to speak more. You're constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure and interpreting it the way it suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1651	Of course, we'll get to the bottom of this. We started the debate, i.e. considering the proposal for an extension of work, at ten to nine. We've had a debate about this issue for over half an hour. So we couldn't decide until nine o'clock, because the debate is still going on. This was proposed ten minutes before the end of the time that we had appointed by the Assembly as the end of the work. We simply need to put an end to the matter. There's no other way. Are you satisfied with the explanation? I ask the People's MPs to make a statement as to whether or not a member of the 83s has been broken. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I would like to put the motion to the vote, please state whether the Rules of Procedure of Rule 83 has been broken. Please vote. For 23, against 130, the three abstentions, were not voted by 12, a total of 168 MPs present. I understand that we have concluded that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. We can keep working. You're right, we haven't made a decision, first I should put Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal to continue our work until this agenda is over. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please let us be clear about the proposal to continue the work until the end. For 126, against 18, with 11 abstentions, there was no 11 vote, a total of 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided to work until this session is over. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? He doesn't accept. ) Does the amendment promoter want a word? It's about the last one. I ask the MPs to declare this amendment and determine the quorum. You're giving up the amendment? Okay. Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the Proposer accept the amendment? No, I don't. ) Are the amendment's proposings looking for a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1652	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, all our amendments aim to improve the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as this one. Namely, if the motioner saw in Article 27, Article 1 as well, the word "everyone" was missing, then we saw that there was no relative representation of parliamentary groups in terms of the election of the president and vice-president of the board, as well as the vice-president of the National Assembly. If one parliamentary group has the power provided by the number of MPs who make up it and if it participates in committees in proportion to that force, then it should also participate in the functions of the chairman and vice-president of the Committee, as well as in the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Here's why. During the constitution of the National Assembly in this assembly, there was an act of the Rules of Procedure by the parliamentary majority. The opposition's parliamentary groups took part in this unconsciously. After that, it was too late for extraction. Namely, the DOS parliamentary group has requested that only a few committees be established so that the Assembly can start working, and then, below, the Committee will be established as needed. We asked, what is perfectly normal, for all of us to establish all the committees, to determine how many members the parliamentary group is giving to which committee, in which committee will have a president, in which vice president. And to determine which parliamentary groups belong to the seats of the Vice-President of the Assembly and how many seats it is. The new leadership of the assembly, the president of the ruling majority's parliamentary group, did not want to discuss it. After that, a kind of discrimination of the SRS parliamentary group began. Someone broke into our room this afternoon, took the furniture from them, taken away the computer, taken away some technical goods. I don't even know where it is today. The deputy secretary of the National Assembly, who was elected by MPs at the National Assembly's session, was free of discharge and received notice, as well as without the election of a new deputy, that he was no longer in employment in the National Assembly. We understand that the DOS parliamentary group does not want to co-operate with the SRS parliamentary group on the issues of the organisation of the work of the National Assembly. We do not expect to co-operate on the draft law, in the debates on proposals, on amendments, we do not expect to vote equally, not naturally, except some of the items on which we agree, but we expect that there is no precedent in this assembly regarding the rights of parliamentary groups or MPs, especially when it comes to the rights concerning what is governed by the Rules of Procedure, which is our agreement on joint work. That is why we have proposed this amendment. We believe that a member of the Rules of Procedure should be immediately governed by the obligation and the right of parliamentary groups to be represented in committees in accordance with their own power. But not only in committee membership, but also in the seats of the president, vice president and vice president of the assembly. The Serbian Radical Party belongs to two seats of the board president, two seats of the board's vice-president, one seat of the assembly's vice-president. Until that is achieved, communication between us, and even the one in the hallway, in which we would negotiate the course of the session, is not possible at all. That is why we propose that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1653	Is Mr. Vukic reporting as a second proposer? No, I don't. Thank you. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 130, the abstentions were missing, did not vote 7, a total of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, given the way the session was called in and when we received the material that the promoter delivered to us, we used the SRS MPs, after we had taken over the material late yesterday afternoon to submit certain amendments. I have tabled two amendments to the amendment proposal and the addition of the Rules of Procedure, and Article 16 refers to the deputy secretary of the National Assembly. Namely, Ms. Marica Savic, I will illustrate this example, was the deputy secretary of the past meeting, by the will of the assembly majority of this assembly, elected to this responsible function, and she was safe and diligent as one of the good lawyers, doing that duty, and then what happened was that a new assembly was established, a new DOS government came, showed such democracy that until today's Mrs. Marica Savic was not resolved from that function and her status was further unknown. Maybe one of you could give us an additional explanation of why that is. This is probably all in line with your policy and with what you are declaring, and that is why I have submitted this amendment, because if the National Assembly were to resolve the majority of MPs and presidents, and the deputies, and the deputies, as you have provided for the decision to amend the Rules of Procedure, it is normal for the National Assembly to resolve the deputy secretary and, of course, to see, the MPs we have the opportunity to appoint him, where the deputy secretary has sinned, in which it was his responsibility, or irresponsibility, and not this once purely political decision, as it did in this case, that people without any reason, and that is your manner throughout Serbia and through public enterprises, are being removed from their responsibilities, and for that they have been elected by the will of MPs, and I believe that the MPs should be resolved from these functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1655	Thank you. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 154, there were no abstentions, no three, a total of 183 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 17th amendment. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1656	I suggested that you be a member of the 17th. The draft decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is deleted for the simple reason that the function of the secretary is very important for the work of the Assembly. In fact, she's been important so far. Now it doesn't seem to matter whether the secretary has or doesn't. A vacuum that can last several months, and this solution that you have proposed can last indefinitely until the election of a new secretary, would create serious problems in the functioning of this home. It's all on condition that the secretary of this house is capable. Since you know that he does not serve anything, then it is quite clear why you put him never to have to choose and that his function can work as a deputy secretary. In some new assembly that will work on this Rules of Procedure, and a capable and qualified man will come to this place, if his duty for some reason ceases, then erasing this decision to elect a secretary from the Old Rules of Procedure will affect the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1657	Please move to decision-making. Before we determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 142 abstentions, there were no two votes, and 184 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ) Does the amendment promoter ask for a word? Here you go. As speaker Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1658	I think it would be appropriate for you to do something right in this congregation once. You ruled out that the National Assembly could educate committees and committees. The National Assembly can educate it, but you threw it out. I understand why you threw him out, because there's a chapter three called the Anecdic Committee and the Commission, but that chapter three didn't make it right. Now chapter three stands - "The Anecdic Committee and the Commission", and in Article 19, in fact, in the old position of the Rules of Procedure, you have cast out a position that says that the National Assembly can educate committees and committees. Then remove the commissions from Chapter Three or return the position where they say the National Assembly can educate committees and committees. There is no way in one member of the Rules of Procedure that there are committees and committees, and in the other there are no committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1659	I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please let us be clear about this amendment. For 28, against 144 abstentions, there were no votes, no votes, and a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the Proposer accept the amendment? No, I don't. ) Does the amendment promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment because we wanted the Defence and Security Committee to retain one of its previously established obligations. We think it is very important because of the very nature of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the supreme body in our country, that it is important that through this committee the National Assembly exercises control over the work of the Security Service within the National Assembly. We had opportunities, especially in the previous period, in 1995 and 1996, to see what abuse might look like, but we also knew who was responsible and in what way, or whom to ask the question of responsibility for everything that is happening in this home and who is responsible. We think that this principle of responsibility should be maintained, and we don't know why these parts of the Security Committee are being denied by the proposal, or what the Proposer said here. I think that would be good. I don't know why anyone would mind adopting such a proposal. It seems to me that for the safety and safety of everyone in this congregation that would be very significant. I don't think because of the fact that anyone's scared of anyone, but yesterday you saw how cowardly, insidious, devious and corrupt way someone is able to approach someone who can't even get his hand out, hit him and still poses himself as a minister. Just because, not because someone couldn't defend themselves. So we think it would be good to ask a question of responsibility, and I will remind those who don't remember when we were kicked out of this National Assembly Hall, we knew who we were going to ask the question of responsibility and we asked for the replacement of National Assembly President Dragan Tomic. He was the most responsible for all the consequences of the SRS MPs and the so-called lynch inside the hall. Those who don't know, I'll remind them, and maybe even then it wasn't published until the end, here except for these regular guys, who usually, correctly and properly do their job, show up some, I'll be corrected by those who were here with me, there were colleagues from different parties, 40 or 50 beatings, and I think the gentleman from the Democratic Party Jankovic was with us. They went up the back entrance, 40, 50 of them, and if we didn't have this opportunity, we wouldn't know, they were in shoes with some purses, if that were the case, and we didn't know who they were, or what they were, or if we didn't have that kind of opportunity to ask after that, to ask for the responsibility of the president of the National Assembly, I don't know who we were looking for, maybe from the Home Secretary. What does the Minister of the Interior within the National Assembly mean to us, if it happens at the highest of our building in law and I think it's one simple thing and that the parliamentary majority should have nothing against what I've now proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1661	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the motion for a decision has made two changes, two cuts in former Article 51. The Rules of Procedure and the current probably, and that is its Article 21, or 20. First, the question arises why the board is called the Defence and Security Committee. The defence of the Republic of Serbia is part of the defence of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Republic of Serbia has no authority over the Ministry of Defence and the Yugoslav Army. In a description of the work of the Defence and Security Committee, it is not mentioned at any point in the right of MPs to discuss the defence of the Republic of Serbia. The question arises as to why the proposer did not intervene in the name of the committee. Why isn't the board called the Security Committee? On the other hand, when you abolish the right committee, as the promoter did, to control the work of the Security Service, the question arises what will the committee do, even if it is called the Security Committee. What's been kicked out of the former article 51 in the first place? There, the Security Committee discussed other issues in the area of defence and security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. There are no more of these Serbian citizens in the description of the new security committee. Now we have a big problem. Of course, everything needs to be done out of the public eye. In fact, the public is being released to show that a certain security service has not only done its job properly, but it is -- I read it in the paper and listen to state television -- participated in the liquidation of some Serbian citizens. DOS argues that the State Security Service has been kidnapped, even if the Defence and Security Committee had, on paper, the right to discuss the work of the Security Service. The DOS now suggests that this work of service will be torn from the control of the temptation and that it will not even write on paper. People's MPs, the National Assembly will no longer be able to control the work of the Security Service. What other way will he be able to work? Through the Security Committee. During today's debate, you said you were transferring a lot of rights, transferring the debate to committees, and to important committees you're removing the rights they've had so far, under the authority you claim to have been authoritarian. Something doesn't add up, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You can even avoid the Security and Defence Committee not controlling the work of the Security Service, but don't throw it off paper. You can throw democracy out of this assembly, but it's not right to write it. The president of the ruling majority's parliamentary group should not come out and say that for a pay phone. There are some things you don't say. Of course, they are, you'll do them, but don't show us what you write, which leaves a trail, don't show us that there's a new non-democratic government and that this government doesn't want control over it by the board, which means practically the National Assembly. That was the reason we suggested you fix this proposal. Of course, blindly winking and deaf whispering is not worth it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1663	Replica. Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1664	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of this amendment were obliged to mention the explanation of this position by the DOS parliamentary group. In the existing Rules of Procedure, which we are harmonising with the law, the powers of the Defence and Security Committee are not in line with the law. If we are MPs who appear on behalf of the highest legislative body of this society, we are obliged to say that at this moment there is no law in this society under which we can legally act. Perhaps it could have stood 10 years ago in the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly, but it can't anymore. We will either respect the fact that something is in accordance with the law, or admit that something like this cannot be done at this point, with respect to the rules. What we can talk about today or get to know each other through the media will never be repeated again. What was happening in this society, among other things, does not contribute to the MPs who were members of the Defence and Security Committee, who had the right, formally, to exercise control over the work of the Security Service under this Rules of Procedure. We, as MPs of DOS, say there is no law by which we can do the job properly. We are obliged to adapt this committee's activities to existing legislation. If someone wants to control the work of the State Security Service, the Public Security Resolution, they can do so within the Committee on Defence and Security by requiring the Home Ministry to submit a report on the activities, and then the committee will assess the validity of the report and come before this assembly with a clear view.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1665	This was a replica of Mr. Nikolic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1666	I thought I'd take my word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1667	If it's finished with the replica, Mr. Nikolic, he's entitled to Mr. Vukic as an amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1668	No, I wanted to talk, but if you don't give me your word, fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1669	I'd like to ask you to establish a quorum and move on to a plea...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1670	What's the vote on?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1671	The amendment, which you and Mr. Vukic submitted, to Article 20.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1672	There are other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1673	There are different amendments. We have to decide especially about every amendment that's been filed. We have a quorum to decide. Please state the amendment to Article 20, submitted by Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Mr Alexander Vukic. For 43, against 130, one MP abstained, did not vote 12, a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the Proposer accept the amendment? He doesn't accept. ) There is a word National MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1674	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the first time I've gone out for a pay phone. To be honest, after what we heard in the previous presentation on the amendments submitted by Mr Nikolic and Mr Vukic and Mr Jovanovic, I do not know whether I am in favour or disabled. Obviously, this is different. Anyway, I'm going to say a few sentences about what I suggested. Basically, this goes for what Mr Nikolic and Mr Vukic's proposals are, although we were unable to negotiate, since we belong to two different parliamentary groups. Basically, I'm in Article 20. The motion for a decision was proposed to add Article 2 after Article 1 which reads: "The Defence and Security Committee shall exercise control over the work of the Security Service, in accordance with the law governing this matter". Item 2 becomes item 3. I also gave a brief explanation about it. Why did I suggest that? Respecting what the predecessors said, supporting that idea as well, I came from the fact that this was the right of the Defence and Security Committee to be present in the existing decision. I'm not going to say it's some kind of liquid, but it's one practice that I don't see any valid reasons to eliminate, no matter to what extent and in what way the Committee has used it and whether or not it has done it to a sufficient extent. That's why I don't think that's why it's out of the new decision. Secondly, I think the Committee must have the right to exercise control over the work of the Security Service. I fully understood that both the Committee on Law and this other committee, one of them did not accept and one of them refused. It basically means the same thing to him. The promoter, too, did not accept. I understand the argument given by the Legislative Committee on page 2 below 6, that this is what Mr Jovanovic was talking about, and that the government should control the ministries and that the Assembly is controlling the government. I don't think it would be a great sin, or the opposite, or some pleonasm, or some inaccuracy, or an inaccuracy, or an inaccuracies, if the board would keep that right, because I don't see any other body, other than this board, should deal with these things. I don't even think that that would matter, as I say, disrupt relations as established in our Internal Affairs Act. The third thing, I came really, I don't speak at all formally, I speak essentially, I came from what the current parliamentary majority advocates, and in its pre-election activities, and about work and suggestion, what I wrote, which is that it should rule over the rule of law. Second, that all jobs should be public, all services, all institutions, so of course why not security services. And there's your famous winged, transparentness, and I don't want to talk about it, but all this really points to the founding of my amendment's proposal, and it should stand, provided that you stand up for it, not formally. I want to believe that you're advocating essentially why the parliamentary majority should accept this amendment. Of course, after the vote, I know what the outcome will be, I was simply obliged, and I'm sorry we didn't explain it at the same time, because unless this is going to be accepted, and obviously not, I wanted to at least say it. Then, not only Article 20, but the whole decision will also be evaluated in a particular section as the largest number of SPS and SRS MPs said they would go to the narrowing of MPs' rights and would be particularly expressed in the parliamentary opposition. I think we've explained that it's not democratic, not to say it's undemocratic, that it's not on the platform of why you, as a parliamentary majority, advocate. I think it would be much better for you if you'd accepted this amendment as we suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1675	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1676	The relationship to the proposed amendment cannot question our sincerity for the establishment of a rule of law. There are no legal options at this time to control the State Security Service through the work of the Defence and Security Committee. Transparency in work has nothing to do with it. You've had 10 years of time to achieve it with precise laws and define it. You didn't do that. We are now obliged to confess here in front of Parliament and in front of citizens, that this work cannot be done responsibly, because there is no law on the basis of which this work would be done. In the shortest time, the government will be obliged to come to parliament with a proposal on reforming the interior ministry's work, among other things, a bill on which to regulate the work and activities of the State Security Service and to subdue parliament and the control to be carried out by the Defence and Security Committee. It's just that, simply the need to realize that after 10 years of parliamentaryism in Serbia, we have a Defence and Security Committee that cannot, under the law, do the job he himself has done through the Rules of Procedure that we are talking about here tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1677	I said that I could fully understand what it says in the Committee's explanation, and I understood what Mr. Jovanovic explained on behalf of the promoter. I was just calling for an understanding of our initiative. If there is understanding, then it is not disputed that this can be done, that I purposely said, in accordance with the Law that regulates this matter. Since you are announcing this, my idea and my proposal is to keep it in the draft decision that the Committee is doing so and that the new law that you propose sanctions it. I don't think that's disputed, and I even think it's a little different than what the radicals have suggested and therefore I ask that the parliamentary majority accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1678	Please let us be clear about this amendment. I suggest we determine the quorum. I find that we have most and conditions to decide. Please let us be clear about this amendment. For 38, against 134, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, a total of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. National MPs Bozidar Vucurović, Goran Cvetanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Ljubomir Kragovic and Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does one of the promoters want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, as you have seen, several MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, of course, not agreeing, have submitted an amendment to this member of the Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When we received material for this session and I looked at the provisions of the Rules of Procedures that are being changed and what you specify for them, a technical error was made when it was addressed to the Proposer on my part by this amendment, or others. I gave the priority to this amendment on amending Article 21(2) and proposed that the first indent be deleted, which sets out the work of the Administrative Committee in a certain way, which says that, in addition to the competences it has and precisely defined tasks, the administrative committee should determine the seats of the parliamentary groups in the sitting room. I'm going to have to remind you of an unsettling event that happened immediately after the constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is what my colleague Mr. Stevan Kesejić was talking about today and it is really something that I first submitted this amendment, and above all, which will be precedentd to the Administrative Committee, so one Assembly committee, committee, working body determines where MPs are sitting in the hall, which is not recorded in parliamentary practice and what is certainly the wish of the MPs of the DOS, that they are also discriminating, above all, the opposition and thus determining the seats of MPs in the hall. Today you have heard from the president of our party on your remarks that this exists and that you already have such knowledge, that it is otherwise recorded only in the UK, by the fact that the seating schedule, or chairs in which the MPs sit, is precise by the fact that both MPs and MPs of the opposition are faced on the one hand. In this case, it was not the proposal's intention, because, if I hadn't witnessed the event a month ago, I wouldn't have made it so clear what I was going to talk about, and that was the intention of DOS MPs, and it was demonstrated, on the edge of the incident, almost by force, in front of us two, colleague Gordan Pop-Lazic, and a few colleagues of the SRS, who were in a much larger number, and that's all you have, just that larger number, by chance and because of the error of the voters who brought you here in that number, we didn't find ourselves in the hall that day in places where, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Serbian Radicals sat back for ten years. Many of you were not members of the political parties at the time, many of you could not even dream that this mere case would bring them into this room and in such a way as you do, from the constitution of the Assembly, you would represent citizens who would judge, and I think it is really necessary that the motionary accept this amendment and that because of the violation of the Constitution, which he says, and I also stated in the explanation that the MP represents the citizens of the electoral unit in which he was elected (The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 76) and no one has the right to determine, on the basis of the ruling majority's political decision, the seating schedule of MPs in the Assembly Group Hall, because it is quite logical that they can be MPs, out of 250, a certain number, who do not want to be and work within the MP's group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1680	Ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion of the SRS, it is inappropriate to schedule the sitting of MPs at the National Assembly Hall for the National Assembly or the Administrative Committee. Now, you see, citizens expect us to pass some law, live a little bit better, have higher salaries education or health care workers, and we determine who's going to sit in the National Assembly Hall, and now, in some ways, we have to see what the consequences are if I don't accept getting out of my seat and go where someone sets me up on schedule. Do you want to beat me, beat me, call the police? Well, you know what, they didn't even get me out last time, so I stayed here, and neither will you. You from the women's political network in those years of me being young to throw out, hard. So we're going to have to know if there's some kind of director who's going to control it, or "grouper," it doesn't matter. I could accept it being the chairman of the Administrative Board, Mr. Alexander Krstic, he can do it. He can also be on boards, and the board president, and the MP, and everything, he's too capable. But if it's too much of a responsibility for him, we can also take a technical person, who doesn't have a lot of work, who doesn't do anything, let's say the Secretary of Parliament, maybe he'd be perfectly capable of doing these jobs. And, since writing such a member of the law took a lot of work, a lot of thought, a lot of energy, I don't believe your boss, Ceda Jovanovic, wrote this member of the decision himself. You probably all helped him, so you managed to get to it. I suggest we get out of business, so the Assembly doesn't deal with the schedule of who's sitting in the Assembly. Do you care about these first places, right? So why don't you put a chair here, right there, you'll be right outside, and then everybody sees you. Well, you know what, Grandma's sweet, that's what happened to her, and if Jackie was willing, she'd be sleeping with the boss.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1681	There is a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1682	Mr. President, in the course of today's session, two members of the Rules of Procedure are being violated, and that is Article 103 and Article 105. Article 103 states that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect and are not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, and Article 105 defines your obligation to give notice to the MP, among other things, and if you interrupt the speaker in the presentation or throwing, that is to say, interferes with the speaker, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. Special verbal aggression, both at previous sessions and at this one, shows a few ladies of the time from this women's political group. As the problem is obviously an abstinent nature, I insist that on the basis of Article 105, you give notice to the president of the DOS Parliamentary Group that, for the sake of a peaceful and tolerated atmosphere in this House, it is urgent to approach this extremely difficult problem. If the DOS parliamentary group is unable to do so, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party Group, and for the sake of peace and tolerance in parliament, I suggest that other parliamentary groups be involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1683	Mr. People's Messenger, you are right to violate the Rules of Procedure and that occasional MPs should be warned, and Gods and expelled, for violating the provisions of Article 103. But, among other things, in a group of those who would be under that penalty, you would be too, because of this presentation that you had just had behind this speaker, because you insulted the MPs and gave one to the MP very inappropriate lecture, so I accept that there have been violations of the Rules of Procedure in the part relating to the more rigid application of this Rules of Procedure, and I'm afraid we would be left without the MPs in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1684	Let me just explain, I don't know what you were thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1685	Mr. Ambassador, you have no right to explain, you can only state whether you are satisfied with the answer. Unless, of course, the National Assembly declares itself. The silence is approval. We can keep working. Here you go. He has the word MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica. So it's a replica about the amendment. Then we have to finish this cycle of replicas, and then we continue the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1686	The right of MPs, among other things, does not commit to respect for its colleagues. Namely, it is known that the institution of immunity protects each of us from all excuses for this speaker, and therefore I, Mr. from the Serbian Radical Party, assure you that nothing will happen to you because of what you have said here, nor have you hurt the honour and face of DOS and MPs that you have mentioned in the way you have done. I would be ashamed if someone from the DOS Parliamentary Group had discussed the MPs of the SRS in such a way and the ladies representing us here. In any case, there is order in this House, a order that will be complemented both by the law and the obligation that each of us sits in its place. Since you have shown that you are unable to understand where your place is, the decision of the Administrative Board will give it to you. If you do not respect such a thing, the Rules of Procedure also provide for other measures to be taken in order. In any case, democracy is not powerlessness.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would understand Mr. Jovanovic if this was the first example today. Two hours ago, I felt an incident committed by the president of the National Assembly. At the time, it did not bother you, Mr Jovanovic, when National Assembly President Natasa Jovanovic said those should disappear from the Serbian parliament, from the political scene. You know, I don't like this woman's network either. I'll never give them a bad word. I don't want to offend them. It's enough how they act so nobody has to insult them anymore. Have the same archaic. I didn't react today because our Natasha and it doesn't take a lot of people to protect her, she can handle herself, dig, scratch, fight, that's how she's been going through life for years. But think about it, it's not just your ladies, ladies, we have a lady. When we take the punch, we feel silent, and wait for the opportunity to re-set it. Your ladies, who you're defending, warn that what they're doing and how they're getting us is not appropriate to the ladies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1689	Didn't you give up on the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 21. Since they are MPs, i.e. Natasa Jovanovic and Dragoljub Stamenkovic said a lot about it, I will be brief, concise and clear. Since Parliament Group head Cedomir Jovanovic has already reported and if he had announced certain sanctions, I would have just asked him a question because everything is fine. I've seen him speak during today, and I've already said what I think about the appointment of MPs in MPs' benches, I'm very interested in how Mr. Ceda Jovanovic will arrange for everyone to sit in that place he thinks someone should take. I'm very interested in what sanctions they are, who's willing to determine them and who's going to implement them. Every law must define exactly how the conditions and relationships it regulates can be regulated. In elementary school, I traveled around the world, both in the East and the West. Even in London, even in Green Park or Hyde Park, if you want to throw waste, you have to pay 100 pounds. So it's not a culture thing, in the West. It's more about whether sanctions are paid or not. I'd like to hear from the head of the Parliament Group how he's going to impose the sanctions he's meant to impose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1691	Thank you. We can. Yeah, I read it, we even stayed in a dilemma about whether Mr. Marjanski was, so we decided he wasn't. Then come in. I read it, so you know you've submitted this amendment. You don't know if you've taken it? How will you know you're discussing?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1692	I didn't know what turn it was. There's nothing more to say, but you are really asking the opposition's MPs to do more obstruction, than to analyse your laws and regulations, other acts. If you want to sit us in the bench as students, sit us down. I promise you, that Japanese guy who went an hour and a half to the pay phone, he'll be world champion for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1693	Only one of the promoters of this amendment doesn't answer, does Gordana Pop-Lazic say she's answering or not answering? Your amendment isn't up now, he'll come in line. Take it easy. We can move on to a decision. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please let us be clear about this amendment. For 35, against 123 abstentions, there were six, a total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments to the same article, to article 21, and in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the Proposer accept the amendment? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed these amendments very meaningfully and it seems to us that this is one of those members that makes these changes and complements, which is why these decisions are actually made. It is an attempt by the motionr to humiliate the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in such a way as to endanger its dignity, as has not been observed so far. It's inappropriate to compare students to champions or even students. As much as memory serves me at all, maybe not enough, but one part of it anyway, I always wanted to sit in the last bench and somehow managed to do it. That's not what my teacher told me. I don't know how you think you're humiliating the people's MPs, whom the people have chosen, who should represent the people, to be respected by everyone, no matter where they are, whether they belong to the ruling majority or to the opposition minority. How do you propose to humiliate them in such a way that the Administrative Board, the Assembly Body, determines where they will sit. On what basis are you going to determine that? Here, there are nice ladies here, I choose to sit next to them right now. Will the Administrative Board respect me? What does that mean? What happens if I want to sit up in the back row or here in the third row? Who's gonna get us out of here? Who's gonna get us out of here? Who's gonna say we broke any, in this case, sublegal law and who can control it? Would you, Mr. President, remember where he sits, or Mr. Secretary perhaps, where 250 MPs sit and where every place is, or will it be written on a chair? Would you like to make special cages for the MPs? Maybe it wouldn't be bad. Since I'm noticing, and I haven't been able to adequately understand what the Secretary of the National Assembly was mumbling behind me, and I hear he's going to make some kind of cages, I don't doubt, it's not impossible, it wouldn't be a miracle, just know that in that cage, Mr. Secretary of the National Assembly you can come in, we won't. Mr. President, will you calm down the ruling coalition MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1695	No, I can't, Mr. Nikolic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1696	It is not a matter of Mr Nikolic, it is heard from all other sides, you did not warn the secretary of the National Assembly, the secretary sitting next to you, who has no right to participate in the debate. So, I don't care that he's rude, that he hasn't even settled for a session of the National Assembly. It's his business and he talks more about him than anyone else. As much as I could, my wife had ironed my shirt, at least that's what she told me, and I don't know ironing, so I can't tell you. [[Sagar.]] And yours might as well take a look. And as for the second attitude (the president reminds us of the order with the bell)... And in your party, women don't iron. Women's political networks don't iron women, so what do you do? Here, Mr. President, please, it's really amazing what these ladies from the women's political network are getting...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1697	I ask all MPs to listen to the speaker. We're still discussing the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1698	I think you, Mr. President, agree with me that it's amazing what ladies from the women's political network are getting, but it does seem to me that the welder from heaven has come out. As for this more serious issue and the other attitude, which we have asked to erase, which is much more serious, as regards the Administrative Committee and its competences, you know that in this National Assembly we have had many unpleasant experiences and overstepping those legal acts, in accordance with the sublegal acts, ingenuity that the Administrative Committee had. According to the previous Rules of Procedure, the Administrative Board could not determine, nor remove, immunity. But that's what the Management Board was doing. So Tomislav Nikolic and Jovica Stojmenovic ended up behind bars in Gnjilan prison because one vampire night, the socialist majority, along with New Democracy, voted (President-Time), it was June 95, because the rules of the Rules of Procedure were misused in this way. We're just asking it to be thrown out, to delete attitude number four, that such abuse in the future would be impossible. That's what we think is logical and it's good. The National Assembly is the one who makes the decision, which determines, which abolishs immunity, if the punishment for a crime is more than 5 years old, it can do it in a different way and I think it's something that's acceptable to you. That's why I expect you to accept that. If you'll excuse me, since I didn't have the opportunity, 30 seconds to say about what Mr. Jovanovic was saying and about the control of the State Security Service. By sublegal law, like the one we're adopting, we can't change and it can't be contrary to the Internal Affairs Act, that's true, but we can supplement and we can do something that we can't disrupt the essence of the law. That's what we're looking for here. This would definitely fix this and it wouldn't bother us at all, and this kind of control doesn't exist at all. It's not a question of who did it 20 or 30 years ago. It's a question of acts, it's a question of law, it's a question of law. It's a clear question as a tear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1699	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have intervened twice in this Member of the motion for a decision. Let's get this straight first. It makes no sense for the Administrative Board to determine where the MPs will sit. This was not the subject of a dispute in the National Assembly, and that is why you cannot say that the work of the National Assembly session has been difficult. On the other hand, there are only 250 MPs in Serbia. Each represents a huge number of citizens and is as serious as the serious citizens who voted for it. We're not children. Especially, to tell you the truth, I don't like the idea of where I'm sitting being decided by those who can be my children. Why would the Rules of Procedure, the Administrative Board, do that and say, if you're going to be sitting here and here, Tomislav Nikolic? And I say good, I'll sit over there and over there. What's the penalty? Who's going to take the measure? What's the penalty? If it costs 5,000 dinars, I'll think about it if I'm kidding. If someone's going to come in and beat me, like in the golden days of New Democracy, I'll think about it. But if there's no sanctions, if it's going to be a reason that the Assembly starts 10 hours later, 10 days later, I'd be very happy to take advantage of the opportunity you're giving me with this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. That's why I don't think it's right. We've never had a fight in 10 years about where anyone's gonna sit. How come now this formation, like an army, like the woods these foresters form, by troops, by platoons, by departments? It really doesn't make sense. What is more serious in this article, which, of course, when you have a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions, you can't change everything you don't like in the act. But I took advantage of the opportunity to touch this member of the law, and then I could suggest something that has long stalled the MPs of the opposition, I personally acknowledge me more than others, and that is one broadly laid right of the Administrative Committee to consider the issue of applying or denying the immunity of the MPs and other officials in the cases of the envisaged Constitution. A man would think, when he saw such a provision, that the Administrative Board would consider it, and then propose to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly is the only one according to the Constitution of Serbia to decide whether to deny the immunity of the MP or to be set up at his request, or whether the National Assembly itself without asking MPs to establish immunity. Suddenly, in 1995, at a rally in Gjilan, police flew in, beat up MPs, arrested them, took them to a police station. That's where they kept us until morning, taking me to court. We said we had immunity, they brought us back to the militia station. The board of directors sat down that night. The session was called by Zarko Jokanovic, then chairman of the Administrative Committee. Well done. I couldn't be a public figure anymore if I'd done what he did that night. And, in the morning, the judges received a decision from the Administrative Board to deny our intelligence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is very clear. It does not distinguish between regular and extraordinary meetings and requires the National Assembly to declare the immunity of MPs. Because I repeat, there are only 250 of us. That's how it's broken. On the 40th day in Gjilan, I read in Politics that the Constitutional Court has raised the issue of our arrest. He addressed the National Assembly with a request that the Legislative Committee determine whether the decision was in accordance with the Constitution, even "Politics" said that it could happen that we were at large the next day, as the judge said, but until 60 days had passed, we had not left prison, and today Serbia's Constitutional Court no longer discussed the proposal. It means that it can happen when someone's power is sweetened and they're raped, that they can reach for it again. That is why we have only added a few words in this indent that resolves the responsibility of the Administrative Committee on Immunity, which is that when the Committee examines the issue of denying or establishing immunity, it should inform the National Assembly. Then everything's fine. That should be a normal path, but when the opposition bothers the authorities, I say to you, then they reach for different interpretations of the law and the Constitution, and even reach for the fact that the Constitution is completely overrun and that judges are ordered not to plead. As for security, which Mr Jovanovic gave us a lecture on, all reports delivered by the Security Service to the National Assembly will be false and fictitious. It is necessary for the Committee to do what Goran Vesic did, to enter the service, to obtain documents, to open files and to dig for it. It's a proper control of the work of the Service and of state and public security.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1701	I ask you to plead with me on this amendment, and before we determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 113, there were no abstentions, there were no 5 votes, and 163 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1702	Mr. President, to ask one question, which means 20 hours and 15 minutes, that means when the MP handed over the amendment and probably should go in order. Second, warn your secretary not to mention we're going to the cages. We're not going to the cages, and he's definitely out of the cage. In Article 21, I have suggested that the indent should be deleted in full, and the new text should read as follows: Members of Parliament have the right to sit in the congregation of their choice. That he'd sit down, and I'd just warn him of some things. First of all, I know from experience that it won't end well. Serbian radicals will not give in safely and already know their seats. That Mr. Ceda Jovanovic threatened, and we had that scenario, and they threatened us, and they beat us, and the bats and so on, and you'll be in that situation, Mr. Chado. When they threaten you, when you experience it, you will not speak like that. I would also like to mention that the DOS should also take care of itself, it's on the verge that DOS will fall apart, and what about those mini-calibre parties that are in DOS, these traitor parties that have betrayed and are together, and be assured that the New Democracy for 5,000 marks will come to you. Where you will find something, and now DOS is one whole, and you will also surely fall apart at the most recent time. That's exactly what I suggested. In line with this amendment, I have proposed that MPs do not put themselves in place for members of the Government, simply whether or not the members of the Government are there, that is their culture and their problem. The places that are designated for members of the government are not hygienic and it is not nice for MPs who are not, to sit down. When I said that two hours ago, people sitting in the front row were offended. When you're ministers, when you're Deputy Prime Minister, then you'll have that place empty.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1703	Please let us decide on this amendment before we determine the quorum. (Milorad Mircic, from the post: To decide whether he escaped from the cage or not? I'm guessing we have a quorum. Please let us be clear about this amendment. For 29, against 124, there were no abstentions, two did not vote, 155 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. Members of the 22nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic and Srboljub Zivanovic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does one of the promoters want a word? Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1704	Here, tonight on this amendment, I will be surprised for the last time, Mr. President, why you allowed me to amend the Rules of Procedure to replace the National Assembly. In order for MPs, especially those who are not interested in today's debate, to know what this is about, you have predicted that in the process of hiring help to consider or produce certain acts, to hire institutions or individuals, that this is no longer done by the National Assembly, as it has been until now, rather than by the President of the National Assembly. Now you, Mr. President, will subjectively, in your opinion, not even know by which criteria, without debate, determine who in this country is the most professional or the most similar to helping the Assembly to consider a few proposals or a proposal, which is very important. Who is this expert without whom the congregation cannot work and must engage? Next, how much is that gonna cost? The current Rules of Procedure, whose author I was, this point has not been changed before, for the sake of control has predicted that the National Assembly employs individuals. You know what it's like to hire individuals. It's all costing. The National Assembly's budget leaves the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the recruitment of those persons. It is very good when the Assembly knows who is involved and how much it cost, rather than when you give authority to the president of the National Assembly like this, and there is no control anymore. That's why I think it's because of you, Mr. President, that no doubt remains, that your name is not withdrawn in the papers, as soon as it's in this DOS, there are break-up people who are now accusing the Socialists of the newspaper and preparing their arrests, they'll come after you. I want to protect you a little, your authority, your integrity, and help you spend your days more peacefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1705	There's a word Mr. Martian. Use the line on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1706	Please, Mr. Nikolic, don't defend me. There's no need. You haven't read it carefully. I came out to explain it, so that someone wouldn't remain in doubt. No authority shall be given to the President to appoint any group or experts on his own and to preserve God's right to do so. He's making one date with the board. The Committee of Parliament proposes to the President. The president can't do it without a proposal from the board, but, of course, the board can't do it without the president. There's a connection. The current solution, which the MPs had not used in the previous meeting, and perhaps it would have been better if they had used it, because if smart people had come to Serbia, it might have been better, it required the Assembly to decide. So to hire an expert from any area of life and work or because of the need to be engaged by the National Assembly, a decision of the National Assembly was needed. That's extremely irrational. Neither the board nor the President of the Assembly can make that decision on their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1707	This story, Mr. President, does not stand because the Rules of Procedure are regulated that committees are the auxiliary bodies of the National Assembly, not the auxiliary bodies of the President of the National Assembly. What committee in the list of its affairs and responsibilities has the obligation to propose to the president of the National Assembly the engagement of individual persons and institutions for different types of assistance? It doesn't say anything. Why would the board meet to propose something to the President of the Assembly - I repeat - one of us, equal with us. This was the spirit of amending the Rules of Procedure. This is already the fourth member of the amendment where you take over the prerogatives of the National Assembly. The National Assembly will get it out of hand. You will load yourself another burden, which you did not need, but I am not giving up on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1708	Is anyone else answering for a word? Since no one's answering for a word, we'll approach the vote. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I ask the MPs to turn off their cell phones and vote. For 19, against 139 abstentions, there was no vote of 6, a total of 164 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Lazar Marjanski, a National MP. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the Proposer accept the amendment? He doesn't accept. ) Does Lazar Marjanski want a word? He has the word Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1709	In short, Article 23(1) is completely pointless. If the National Assembly is well organized (I have linked this to Article 35, and I will explain when it comes to order), if the President is up-to-date, if the gentleman who went into the cage delivers everything in time, there is no need for the President of the Assembly to postpone the Assembly because of the amendments, because the committees can't come up with a solution. There's plenty of time, three days before the Assembly's work begins, to deliver the amendment. The boards can finish the job. All amendments submitted have been resolved unless the proposing has a case from 1993 or 1994 when the Democratic Party submitted 70kg of amendments and then resolved. There is no need for Article 23.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1710	Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. For 15, against 139 abstentions, there were no votes, 5 were decided by 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Guduric submitted the amendment to Article 24. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the Proposer accept the amendment? He doesn't accept it. Does the amendment promoter want a word? There's a word from MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1711	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, member of the 24th Amendment and supplement speaks of a different time of work of the National Assembly. Because we haven't started once in a while, not at first, not after a break, we need to work faster. You who belong to Serbia's majority opposition should ensure that the sessions begin on time, so we will get the time that is missing to finish our jobs. On the other hand, sometimes Srem's superiors dug corn for 12 hours, and then it went down to 10 o'clock and in those 10 they had half an hour for breakfast and at noon to eat lunch and rest for a little while. You've dug corn and worked in the National Assembly with this proposal equalized. However, as you from the majority opposition to Serbia do, because you bring it to this assembly, until we introduce this electronics, only a finger that is, among other things, present only when you vote, and all the rest of the time you have a shortcut to work, Bircuz is your favorite place, for such work and effort, and for so much effort, we could introduce that we do much longer. You'll admit that using your finger for 18 hours a day isn't such a big effort.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1712	I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. First, to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Please vote. For 31, against 118, there were no abstentions, did not vote 6, a total of 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. Does Mr. Marjanski want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1713	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you should accept this amendment, and I'll read to you what this is about: "Delete the word by 7:30" and enter a new text "up to 18,00 hours, without the right to extend the session". In fact, Article 24 says we should be working by 7:30. You know, for normal work to be for one man, it's eight hours' work. In this eight-hour working time, a man is exhausted physically and mentally. We wouldn't have experienced scenes like this, to work to infinity, until someone passed out, etc. In this eight-hour working time, DOS MPs would have the strength and will to sit in their benches and have the quorum. Our MPs, the Serbian Radical Party, are sitting in benches. If I were looking for a quorum right now, you wouldn't be at all, I mean DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1714	We can approach the vote. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please let us be clear by voting on this proposal. For 32, against 127, there were no abstentions, there were no two, a total of 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24, amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ) Do the applicants of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1715	I admit that there was a whole attitude left out of the slip, which reads, "Article 24 is changed and said." But you recognized him and could not accept this amendment as orderly. But you can tell what he was referring to. You saw, today and a few days ago, we had the same problem with determining the end of the session. Two words, "by the book," create a whole mess. Although this is an exception, then, should be determined in advance each morning as to how long the Assembly will last, an exception is foreseen that during the session, meaning it should later come to the proposal as far as the Assembly will work. That'd be all right. However, you really interpret it in a way that in one day more than one time can be determined as to how long the Assembly will work and everything related to the rights of those two words, "by the rule". I accept that the Assembly works until 7:30. It's really just some normal working time. But I suggest we get those two words "by the book" out and for the record, the assembly works until 7:30. If he has to work longer, then at the beginning of work, the president of the National Assembly will ask the MPs, if anyone proposes to work longer that day. The parliamentary majority will decide and everything will be fine. Indeed, Mr. President, for the first time since you have held a session of the National Assembly, MPs do not know when the session of the National Assembly ends. It's not even a decision in the sense of exhausting that part of the agenda. It's not a decision in terms of 23, up to 24. You say, "Till nine, we'll consider it, then by ten, and then we'll consider it." That's unserious. There are obligations that MPs must do beyond these obligations in the National Assembly. There's something called biology. Now, it's easy for you, you don't participate in the debate, you act like an SPS soon, you serve here to vote. But we do. We'll have nothing to say about any bill of law. We're going to try to help you make the best of the laws, try to get rid of you to make bad laws, but we need to know, about what working time looks like. There are no workers in Serbia, there is now not one who has been doing this seriously since you came to power, but there is no one who does not know how long his working time is during the day. Only the MPs of the people. To God, chosen by the people, honored to be MPs, and here they are welcomed by someone who says, well, now that we've got you in this room, you'll only come out when we decide that you can come out. I think the explanation is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1716	Does Mr. Vucic, as second proposer, want a word? No, I don't. ) Please determine the quorum before declaring this amendment. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please let us be clear by voting on this proposal. For 38, against 126, there were no abstentions, two, a total of 166 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ) Do the applicants of the amendment want a word? He's giving up on the proposal. I find the motioner has given up the amendment. Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ) Do the applicants of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have indicated in this amendment that we wanted to point out possible failures in the future work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if these members of the proposings are accepted. Namely, the proposed amending act which is not included in the agenda, which has met all the business conditions, so, if it happens, we now begin a regular session of March 1st, to submit in accordance with the law, in accordance with all other general legal provisions of a certain legal act to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for adoption and this is not on the agenda, we will not be able to even ask for an explanation, nor an explanation from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and of the National Assembly of Serbia why it is not on the agenda. This is one of the essential problems with this member and I don't think it should bother the ruling majority, I don't see why it would be a bigger problem, and it represents an additional guarantee to all opposition MPs, those who think their rights could be compromised by such behaviour as the ruling majority. In paragraph 2, we have suggested (you can see this), so it is about participation in the search. For those who do not follow, I will read that the current Rules of Procedure are foreseen to participate in the search, when deciding on the agenda, lasts five minutes. With your motion for a decision, your amendments and additions, you have suggested that it lasts for three minutes, and we are trying to put it back again with this amendment, that it lasts five minutes. We don't know why, especially since this is not some significant part of the assembly debate, and it can't pose any threat or interference to the ruling majority, we don't know why they can't accept it. We think it would be very logical, especially because of the fact that five minutes, if someone wants to explain all the questions about making up the agenda, is quite enough, but at the same time we think it's three minutes short. I do not understand the need to create such a kind of restrictive provision, restrictive measures towards MPs in the National Assembly, where there is absolutely no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1718	Is the other promoter coming in? He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why are we trying to change this member of the motion for a decision? Because Article 80. The Rules of Procedure say the draft agenda of the National Assembly session is being prepared by the president of the National Assembly. People's MPs have rights, not just obligations, even duties. It is both the right and duty of the MP to propose acts adopted by the National Assembly. Between them and laws, various decisions, declarations. The proposal must be prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure clearly determines what the proposal should look like. The proposal must arrive at least three days (it was 72 hours), three days, it doesn't matter, before the session is held. And when the proposal meets all the conditions of the Rules of Procedure, the arbitration of the National Assembly president remains -- whether to put it on the agenda or not. MPs come to the session, have a set agenda. It will be us who will have proposals, which will be fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, and will not be included in the agenda. Now, I'm asking you, gentlemen of the proposers, and you who will vote for this proposal -- and how are we going to achieve our right to put the draft agenda on the agenda? When you review the entire Rules of Procedure, you will no longer find any obligation by the President of the National Assembly to put something on the agenda and you will not find the right of an MP to suggest changes and to supplement the agenda, to propose them at the session itself and to explain them for three or five minutes. You suggested three minutes here, and before that it was five. Then what the National Assembly is going to turn into - a talk room only about what the president of the National Assembly thinks is to be spoken of. What are the rights of opposition MPs now, when a proposal submitted by opposition MPs will be put on the agenda, or how they will tell the National Assembly president that he has injured the Rules of Procedure, by not including something in the agenda. You will immediately say that you have no obligation to put that session on the agenda and vote that the Rules of Procedure is not injured. We couldn't even, because these members of the Rules of Procedure haven't been changed, we couldn't set a deadline in which something must be on the agenda, but we're trying to delete this member of the proposal to get you back to the old Rules of Procedure, in which at least it's the right for the MP to ask, to submit a proposal for amendments and amendments to the agenda, and to explain it, either provided. And don't convince us that by coming so-called. Democratic parties in the National Assembly have come under the democratisation of the National Assembly. This would rather be like narrowing the rights of MPs, this rather looks like a silent abolition of parliamentaryism. This rather looks like the Assembly will be a place only to vote on proposals, and then it will not be parliament, then political parliamentary life will move to the streets. That's how it was before, when one majority thought it was enough that there were a minimum of 126 MPs here. Because of the situation in the country, we have a lot of problems that you won't be able to solve for yourself, however many of you there are in this National Assembly. Because of the problem you will also need the help of citizens who voted for other political options, I am only warning you that we should work together in this National Assembly. If from the first session we feel like someone they think is better off being out of this room than in it, then from co-operation, and from civil peace and order, there will certainly be nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1720	Please, before the vote, let us determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please let us be clear about this amendment. For 42, against 114, a abstentioned one, not voting four, a total of 161 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Lazar Marjanski and Ljubomir Kragovic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept? No, I don't. ) (Employee Lazar Marjanski gives up the amendment. So you're giving up. And you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, this is another example of how the ruling majority introduces repressive measures towards the minority and that electoral right abolishes the MPs. In point 2, the word "five" is replaced by the word "three", so I can read the explanation of Article 26. Amendment in Article 89 has been proposed. The Rules of Procedure, which specify the case, may take part in the review of the proposed amendments and amendments to the agenda and set a shorter time for participation in the search. In order to explain all this, I will also read what this article looked like. 89. - Proposed changes and additions to the agenda are being searched in which only... (numbers according to the Rules of Procedure) It is therefore considered that the time of three minutes is very insufficient for the proposal's proposal to explain it at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The introduction of this repressivity means that in Serbia, or even now in Serbia, there will be darkness. It means that no different opinion can be heard or that different proposals are proposed at this session of the Serbian Parliament. I believe that this member is in violation of the rights, electoral rights of the MPs and I propose that the National Assembly adopt this amendment to this Member of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1722	I ask you to plead with me on this amendment, to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please let us be clear about the amendment to the vote. For 41, against 112, there were no abstentions, no five votes, a total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 27th amendment in the same text. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the Proposer accept the amendment? No, I don't. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Yeah. ) Please determine the quorum. I'm asking the service to call the MPs. I'm guessing we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1723	I am truly sorry that some people feel that they do not need to hear what we think, that they do not need to hear our proposals and our amendments, so we work on the edge of the quorum every time, although the ruling majority has 176 MPs. Okay, that speaks of their relationship to both the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia. We think this amendment, submitted by the MPs of the SRS, is very important. That's the second of those three key amendments we talked about. This is the second of the key restrictive provisions adopted by the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure which the DOS has done today. In fact, Article 100, which is amended by the DOS proposal, is abolished by the right to reply to the replica, the right to double replication or replication, as you will, or duplicate. What represents not only the image of every national assembly is abolished, but it is the basis of democracy. The National Assembly is not only the most important legislative body, but the state body in which Serbian citizens have the highest confidence, or usually have the highest confidence because it represents or reflects the people of Serbia's electoral will in the best way. That's why it was important to allow MPs to have the opportunity in mutual criticism, and I ask you, Mr. President, to try to secure peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1724	I think it's still acceptable peace in the O.R. Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1725	Okay, if you say so. So, we think it is very important to ensure that MPs are given a different view, to come out on the lines of each other, because there is nothing more important for the people and for the citizens of Serbia than for the exchange of views, to see in the exchange of arguments, in the exchange of political facts themselves who represent their political views, political goals, in such a way that they can see who works best in their interest and that they can thus support them or criticise them. This is something that will mutilate parliamentaryism in Serbia. He will indeed be mutilated after many years, yet some of the rules and rights of each of the people's messengers. I've been in this congregation for eight years, so I know what it looked like before, when there were other restrictive measures. This, however, is now absolutely the most restrictive and something we never hoped for. That's something we thought you'd say in those numerous public speeches, Mr. President. We thought some democratic change was coming, some fantastic new liquids, some wonders of democracy, of the rights that are being given to us. We have established that we are being lifted from what we represent, to this day, the fundamental right of the MPs of the people. One more thing that's very important to point out on this point. It's hard to calm down, Mr. President, some who don't care what anyone says or what happens, who are just waiting to vote what they have to and go home. The point is that the right to arbitration is given to the president of the National Assembly to decide when someone will be given the right to reply when they do not. I've already said that the answer to the replica, according to your proposal, doesn't exist at all. I mean, I can talk about someone right now, that everyone knows who this is -- and I'm saying this for the public, I guess most MPs know what member we're talking about -- so I can talk about the worst possible thing, just not to mention his name and not to say his function, he has no right to replication, believe it or not. I can talk, I don't know, about the federal defense minister, I can say that he's a coward, that he's a lowlife, that he's betrayed and that he's like this, and that everyone knows who he's referring to. He doesn't have the right to go out for a pay phone, because I didn't exactly say his function because I didn't tell him his name and his last name. If this is going to be a method, this kind of arbitration in giving the right to replica to individual MPs, then we are entering into something that has nothing to do with any similarities with parliamentaryism. It's something that seems to me that today may even be more incomparably dangerous than that story where you're going to put cages on for us to sit and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1726	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1727	Here, I'm done. It seems to me that it would be good for this member to be deleted, to be abolished, as our amendment suggests, and especially because, if you wanted to build a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you could have done it in two attitudes. In the third and fourth attitudes, you could have contributed to some more favourable changes. It is unclear, if there is no president of the parliamentary group, whether the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the arbitration right to decide whether the deputy president or representative will step forward on behalf of the parliamentary group, as he has done so far. I have the right to have reasonable doubt that it will not do so in the future, because it does not stand clearly in this Rules of Procedure. I think these first two attitudes that I've been talking about -- first of all, who will be entitled to replication, abolishing the reply to the replica, abolishing the second replica -- as a kind of abolishing parliamentaryism can be very devastating in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think it'll do any good, it'll just create further impatience between the MPs. Believe me, and be safe, and within the people, and there will be ever greater and more severe conflicts. Instead of being here in the National Assembly, where it's natural and normal, I'm afraid they'll be in other places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1728	Is the other promoter answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's when you have a bad decision to make, so it's gonna take a long debate. And that kind of debate, in which the motionary finds no match all day long or two sentences to say in defense of his proposal. Sit down, wait for the debate to end and see if there are enough votes to vote. It's no good. Maybe he wasn't a good member of 100. Rules of Procedure, but it's not good for this change. It'll create chaos in the Assembly. It will create hatred and enmity. They will create bad relationships in this congregation. Then who's going to arbitration? We will begin here to insult ourselves knowingly knowing that the one to whom we have directed the insult has no right to replication. You can go from this pay phone all wrong about someone to say, and about one of the ladies here, not to mention her name... Because I'm getting... Not to mention her name and function, and then she doesn't have a right to a replica. Before, it was enough for the MP to be recognized and for the president to realize that the MP was right to claim that he recognized himself. And it was a brake, but I can't say, until now, the presidents of the National Assembly have generally respected the right of MPs to assess whether or not he's involved. Not now. Now you have to say your name and last name and function. The whole state, watching television, can understand who it's about, and he's sitting in a bench and he's silent and he turns out to be guilty, that it's true everything this guy says about him, because he won't come out and deny what he said about him. Well, even when he comes out, he's mentioned by name, he comes out, and then he insults what he mentioned by his name, but he doesn't mention his name, and the president says, "The replicas are over, you don't have the right to a replica." Were you stupid, you mentioned his name, and he was smart, he didn't mention your name. It's no good. It's no good and then it's no good that you erased the last position of that member, which clearly defined how many times these replicas can be executed, and that concludes the debate. But I don't know why, it's possible that our behavior in the last few months as you're in power has scared you won't be able to work here at all. I'm telling you, the Parliament will function impeccably if you get good bill proposals from the day after tomorrow, and if they're bad, then you don't get pulled out of these changes by the Rules of Procedure. If there's anything here and everything, then there'll be insults to God. First I don't want to hide, when I want to insult someone, I'm going to give him a name and a name. I'm not afraid of that. I want to give a man the right to a replica. But I know very well, many of you will not give it to others. If you wanted to give it, you wouldn't have predicted such a restriction at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1730	Can we move on to a decision on this amendment? I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 123, there were no abstentions, four, total, 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1731	What did I suggest in article 27? In point 2, if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party, whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. The following text says - and every MP from the parliamentary group who considers it an offensive term refers to him. What's this about? If the MP offends the parliamentary group, in the event that the president of the parliamentary group is not there, does this mean that the parliamentary group should suffer insults and other words addressed to the parliamentary group. I believe that every MP who is recognized or who is a true patriot, a fellow MP of his own, must defend and defend his MP group. It is certain that there will be such insults and such words in the work. That's one suggestion. The second proposal - in item 5 - to delete the word "three minutes" and add "five minutes". You can see that the five minutes we have today are very little. When people want to do something seriously, it's three minutes too much. It's easy to sit in a restaurant and drink coffee, for such MPs, and one minute it's extremely big. But working for two days, this is the second day, surely to explain what he wants the least takes him five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1732	Is it the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1733	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 74. The National Assembly may hire scientific or professional institutions, as well as some scientific and professional workers to study certain questions from its own circle, or translated, the National Assembly may seek interpretation, and I ask for the interpretation of what Mr. Marjanski is saying, because we really do not understand anything down there what he is saying. I'd like to ask the Assembly to come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1734	Mr. Ambassador, please (the President reminds us of the order by ringing the bell).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1735	I don't know if you, Mr. Lekovic, understand or not, but the fact is that when the president speaks, the Serbian radical silences these microphones. That's a fact. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1736	Please, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1737	Mr. Lekovic, you don't mind, because you're drunk every day. And right now you're drunk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the laughing syndrome that catches you is famous, it's a matter of rest and it shouldn't have been this much work. Mr. President, I don't know how you gave Mr. Lekovic your word and what he was actually looking for, whether it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a replica, how you even gave him the word. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure. But let me tell you something, Mr. Lekovic. You have dared to offend a man of the host, a good man here. Your physical appearance and your voice can never come together. At my place in Shumadia, where you moved in, they say that when a man has a thin voice, there's only one thing to think about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1739	Can we move to a decision on this amendment? Please confirm the quorum. I figure we can move on to a decision. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 135, two abstentions, did not vote 7, and 174 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the Proposer accept the amendment? No, I don't. ) Does the amendment promoter want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 28 for the simple reason that Article 28 reads: "Article 2 in Article 116 is deleted. The Rules of Procedure, which ceases the obligation to determine the quorum before each vote, since the status of the quorum is evident immediately after each vote, when the number of votes, in favour of, against and abstention, is expressed, giving the assembly the number of MPs present at the session." You know for a fact that almost every session, we don't have a quorum all the time, that happens a couple of times during the day, I can safely say that the quorum is gone. In any case, we know that each MP represents the citizens of a particular constituency in which he was elected, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 76. In any case, whether DOS MPs at all represent their citizens if they are not present, decide on your own. This certainly does not apply to all DOS MPs, hundreds of DOS MPs are present at all times, but one 70 in the day, probably because they are on many functions, both in the Federal and the Republic Government, and at the same time they are MPs, so they have some more important things to do, so they are not all the time in the Assembly. In any case, there are MPs who do not just vote for, against and abstention, but simply do not want to vote on certain proposals. I'm interested, in a way that can retroactively undo any proposal because of the quorum. The validity of any decision shall be based on the fact that there is a quorum first and then on this basis it can be approached and later established whether a decision is valid or not, and not what you suggest, to discuss everything first, to vote, and only later to see whether the decision is valid or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1741	What can I do for you, about the Rules of Procedure? (Pal Shandor, throws: About the debate, the old Rules of Procedure is still in effect. No, it's a unique debate, there's no discussion on every amendment. Did you have a word during the session, you answered the word, which means you no longer have the right. In the course of the debate, you only have the right to speak once. (Pal Chandor, throws: The power of God does not pray. We can move on to a decision. Please determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 140, the abstentions did not vote five, and a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1742	Members of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. He has the word Alexander Vucic, the MP of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1743	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about a serious and procedural remark, so this isn't as essential as it was just before what we were talking about. And that didn't particularly entangle you, I mean, first of all, the ruling majority. I have to try to convince you to understand the senselessness of what you've written and I mean, I hope there's a chance you'll understand that. In fact, here it is said to be secretly voiced using an electronic system. I have to notice, I'm sitting in row five, I don't see very well, minus 0.75, and I'm so relatively weak in sight, I see no problem who voted, not just MPs of certain parliamentary groups, but all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There is absolutely no secrecy, and I am not talking about the fact that in terms of archiving, you can extract documents, names, about who voted in the computer centre of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So what kind of secret vote is this? Is that some new secret vote, some new invention? It's something none of us seem to understand. None of us can understand that, but you've figured it out. I'd like you to explain that, Mr. President. Maybe Mr. Secretary will explain it to us and explain it, tell us how it's possible. But he doesn't have the right to speak here, so he'll tell us in front of the gym. How is it possible that this is a secret vote and how will a secret vote be provided on issues that are crucial to the work of this Parliament, for which a secret vote is foreseen? I can assume the proposal's intention. Maybe it's the proposaler's intention -- now I'm putting myself in his position -- to speed up every procedure and, basically, no secret vote, because he has an absolute majority, a qualified majority, and he can do it that way. He thinks he can do whatever he wants. That may be the essence of what the promoter wanted. But don't underestimate each MP's intelligence in this way, because everyone here sees that there's not even a letter of "T" from a secret vote. There's no point in insulting MPs like this. If you'll excuse me, I'd only say one more sentence. I couldn't believe it just now when one of the ruling MPs came out and in such a way insulted Mr. Lazar Marjansky. Indeed, I couldn't believe it because, first of all, Lazar Marjanski didn't deserve it, especially by trying in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because he does and does his job. Everyone who knows him knows he's an honest host, a good and honest man. Why would anyone need that? In particular, why didn't it occur to you, Mr. President, to warn that MP? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1744	Does MP Tomislav Nikolic want a word? He has the word Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1745	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have carefully read the motion for a decision. I think I caught that thread followed by the promoter, which is completely revealed by this proposal, by the proposal of this member that we're offering you to delete. First you have determined and already adopted, refusing our amendments, that you will determine where anyone will sit. There is a technical possibility that the card of a certain MP can only be legitimateized to work in the Assembly. When you find out who's sitting, you'll find it very easy in a secret vote to determine how he voted. It is not a problem for the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. To us, it's a general problem -- why is something called a secret vote if there's going to be information about how who voted? That's a problem for the DOS parliamentary group. This is someone who, dear MPs to you, is establishing control. It is well known, whatever secret vote, that the opposition MPs will vote. After all, you'll count how much it's for, how much it's against, and you'll know. This is what you have amongst yourselves someone who will receive documents for a secret vote. Now, that's your problem. I want to help make what is public public, that what is secret be secret, that what is secret not to be public, if you understand what is the wish of the Serbian Radical Party. If you're not, then have tutors, and cybbeans. Maybe you've earned it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1746	I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. Since there is no quorum, I ask the service to call the MPs outside the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1747	Here's the president of the National Assembly. Mr. President, you just hurt the Rules of Procedure. The electronic system isn't malfunctioning at all. The electronic system's working. But you're really undisciplined and inconclusive about today's session. You asked us to work until we exhausted the agenda, and you're not in the O.R. Who are you punishing here? The ones who want to work! And you're still asking to count us, and here's our cards. We're here, in the O.R. We don't want to make a quorum for you, gentlemen. You can't count us when you know the system's working. If you count, we'll get out, and then we'll come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1748	Let me answer that. We've had this case a few times. I think we're discussing the same thing in vain. Of course, it is the right of opposition party MPs not to participate in the work when they feel there is no quorum. But I can't take part in this class, and I can't take part in this class. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, they are obliged to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units when they are in the O.R. They don't have to be. When they come out, they have to carry their cards. That's how we determine the quorum. But we'll determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1749	I have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1750	How's the replica on the explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1751	You're an MP here. You've made a point. Mr. President, how can you say that it is the right of the opposition MPs to participate in the work whenever they want without participating when they do not. We've been working all day. Members of the opposition majority are not involved in the work. Em doesn't participate, but they're not in the O.R. How do you find the responsibility of opposition party MPs? Who today, apart from you and us, Serbian Radical Party MPs and SPS individuals participated in this session at all? How can you claim that we do not participate in the work if we count the cards from the parliamentary unit? Really, it doesn't make sense. Besides, while there's a transmission, citizens see what it's all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1752	Since it's a replica, let me tell you. It's really embarrassing to argue about things that we agree on. I have not determined your responsibility at all, but the right to participate and not participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1753	Mr. President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. You left your card in the MP's unit, and you were away from the O.R. So you artificially created a quorum and allowed it to be misused, that someone would vote for you when you weren't present.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1754	Mr. MP, look at my card. Look at the screen. Look at the score. What does it show? That's what this is about. It's completely irrelevant whether I draw or not to draw a card to make the system work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1755	There's a system. If you pull the card slowly, then...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1756	Here, I'm taking the card easy. I think we can keep working. Is anyone answering for a word? He has the word Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1757	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to get a good Rules of Procedure, I suggest we adopt Mr. Vukic and Mr. Nikolic's amendment, because it contains a kind of contradiction in Article 29. It has been said to be voiced in secret using an electronic voting system or ballots, which is decided by the National Assembly. We vote publicly through the electronic system. So what's the secret vote? I suggest that this amendment be adopted, because we're going to get a really bad Rules of Procedure, at least in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1758	We can move to a decision on this amendment. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 109, four abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 29. Proposal for a decision, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ) Does the amendment promoter want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment has already been discussed. We've seen that you don't want to adopt it, but for the sake of the public, I just want to say that secrecy is impossible by using an electronic system. Only public voting is possible using the electronic system. So this proposal deceives both the Serbian MPs and the public that secrecy can be ensured by the use of the electronic system. That's just impossible. There is no man on this globe who can prove that using an electronic system can guarantee the secrecy of the vote. So, not only do you deceive this assembly, but you deceive all citizens of this Serbia. So I suggest you consider that for this amendment that I have proposed you vote, that you accept that this amendment is deleted and that a secret vote can only be made through ballots.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1760	Let's make a point and determine the quorum first. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 122, generous 5, there was no vote of 14, a total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ) There is a word from MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what's written in the motion act is the prescribed norm from the Constitution, so the highest legal act of our country. Of course, this would be no problem if a paraphrased, complemented, or decidently explained norm contained in the lex superior of our country appeared in some law. But it's amazing that you're putting the constitutional norm into one of the sublegal legal acts. There's a noise in the O.R. I'm sorry you're not interested. Some may still hear something, at least to see legal acts in the hierarchy of legal acts, which has a supremacy over which, etc. It is amazing that in such a way, the MPs, therefore, all those who work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, take the full from the Constitution, from A to S, overwrite the whole norm in which you say who has the right to propose laws and under what conditions. Well, that's what we've got in the Constitution, and we've got the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We got it, we can read. Now it's being entered into a sublegal legal act, and there's no further explanations, there's no precision, there's not a single newspaper, there's not one comma, there's no new words, there's no new sentences, there's nothing. There's nothing new. I'm simply asking you to make an effort to realize that this is pointless. I don't know how the Administrative and Legislative Committee came up with a solution like this, or they rejected the amendments to the SRS, but this is really pointless, and this is a little earlier for a public and secret vote. Because these voting machines say public voting, and you declared it a secret vote. Please, just a little bit to get logic on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1762	One of the legacy we met in parliament is the manual on using the card during the electronic vote. The electronic vote allows for a public and secret voting process. The instructions you received, Mr. Wolfich, are very clearly specified secret voting mechanisms. Since you have failed to meet the secret voting mechanism, I ask the president of your MP group to ask the secretary for an explanation and that you spare us your ignorance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1763	I don't know what's inherited and what's not inherited. But Mr. Jovanovic either sleeps over from time to time, or he doesn't listen to what someone's saying, or he doesn't understand what someone's saying. I was just talking about copying a constitutional code, which was much more important. As for the secrecy of the vote, you'd do well to show me how you're going to conduct a secret vote in the O.R. that way. It is enough to see only how and how each other's MPs are surrounded and it is absolutely impossible to perform. I'm surprised, and today I've asked someone to come out and say one good norm you suggested and say, is what we suggested wrong? In the end, it comes down to it, you can vote one way or the other, because we're going to darken the screens, but these others won't see who it is and how it voted next to it. Well, don't. Where's that? Let's play hide-and-seek, and let's not see how people vote. It's provided for in the instructions. The secretary of the National Assembly must have been involved in preparing such instructions. Looks like it's his job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1764	I can understand everything, but that the decision-makers, five minutes after we voted on one amendment, came out and talked about that amendment, I really can't understand that. (Kedomir Jovanovic: You are tired. I am not tired, Mr. Jovanovic. I follow closely and listen carefully to everything spoken in this congregation. But we've cleared this vote's secrecy a long time ago and we've already voted on it. Why, Mr. President, you did not warn Mr. Jovanovic that when he came out to say something, he should talk about what was on the agenda that class. Secondly, the secrecy of the vote is not secured, if you're already talking to Mr. Jovanovic, about the secrecy of the vote, because that information about how whoever voted is pouring somewhere. People listen to us, listen to our cell phone conversations, recognize our voice, and you say that here, in this building of the Assembly, there's gonna be a secret about who voted and who pushed the button here, and you're interested in who voted. Don't talk about it. This is only one way this assembly is turning into a police station. There's someone talking to the inspector and looking in the mirror, and behind the mirror, four of them are watching, watching what's going on in that room. That's what you'll do with this secret vote. You will hand round these three switches, and press one, so that no one sees you, and in that time there will be someone who looks like Mr. Jovanovic to say - oh, watch out for this voice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1765	He has the word MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1766	Mr. Nikolic speaks based on personal experience. Be assured that we will not behave as you have described, since the Assembly has twice voted and made clear how it feels about objections to the secrecy of voting through the use of the electronic system. I was obliged to respond to Mr. Vukic's statement, which highlighted the above-mentioned amendment with a question of logic that we raised by voting on the previous amendment. So, I believe you missed the justification of my performance because of fatigue.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1767	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1768	Exactly to speak out of my own experience, but I've never been to that room where the data flows. I was an object that was tapped, followed, stalked, watched, of course. Now you all think what I thought ten years ago, twelve years ago, when I started doing politics, that you're not interested in following and stalking. There is no one for the services now owned by Goran Vesic is not interesting. That's why I have this security culture, and I know I'm being followed, and that's how I act. Those of you who don't think you're being followed, pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1769	We can move on to a decision on this amendment. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 43, against 130, there were no abstentions, no 5 votes, a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Goran Cvetanovic, Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 33rd amendment. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does the promoter accept? No, I don't. There's a word, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 137 that you have provided for your amendments and additions to the decision you propose to adopt to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is also the third, essential, restrictive measure, directed against the vital interests of the MPs and against their fundamental rights in this National Assembly. May I have your attention, please? If I can endure and concentrate on all amendments, Rules of Procedure and your acts, and other MPs who go out and work, please have patience, at least to listen to it. So this is about restrictive measures in trying to prevent MPs from talking about individual proposed amendments. So, if one (I am saying this because of the general public, I assume that MPs have understood or seen it in the proposed decision), the bottom line is that only one who is the applicant of the amendment and the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, has the right to declare that amendment. So far, according to the positive Rules of Procedure, all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had such a right. The question is, why does this right be denied to the MPs? Why, if any other MP had any smart suggestions or had any suggestions, some amendment that could be complemented, which could be even better, and that idea is on our mind, why couldn't we do it at that session? This is about one rigid, rigid policy, just to get it over with as soon as possible, because the promoter is, by the way, the smartest, most often it is, you know, by parliamentaryism, the government as an executive body, and then it is understood that there are no objections necessary. If necessary, they must be in principle, but nothing can be changed at the sitting itself, and none of the other MPs can affect the other MPs, nor accept, nor reject such an amendment. This significantly deprives the rights of MPs, and I do not think these restrictive provisions are necessary at all. I don't understand what's going to happen to them. If it is thought to shorten the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it can also be shortened differently. I will remind you, once the Socialists (it was 1995 or 1996, they will correct me), and when we had the remaining 40 or 50 amendments, the suspension of the debate, Mr Cvetkovic or someone else, to stop his proposal, and say, "We are going to vote." You don't get to the pay phone, you don't get to say anything, you don't get to answer the word and the law passed, either in principle or in particular. You can do it today, you can do it with every law. It is against the Rules of Procedure in a broad sense, against the law, but anything can. And it's a lot easier, than in this way to derivating parliamentary rights, to bring them into an ever-invisible situation. We don't have the right to respond to the replica, there's no replica, there's no more that you can answer unless someone directly mentions you, and no one will directly mention anyone, except for the honorable exceptions, who want to have political opponents, so that they answer them, but that's what we saw today, that it's a really rare case. We have this problem right now, that we don't have the right to talk if someone else submits the amendment, so no matter how nice and smart they think about that amendment, and whatever they think, something bad, so you want to change it, I don't think anyone needs these restrictive provisions, and I hope and believe that the parliamentary majority will respect at least some of our remarks, which I think are really meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1771	He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unless you adopt this amendment, I think the costs of holding the National Assembly session will be greatly increased. That's what MP Pal Shandor, who doesn't follow the debate now, warned you, but he'll get involved in time. To discuss the amendment, the MP will have to write an amendment, which means that those who wish to participate in the work of the National Assembly will write many amendments. You will have to deliver these amendments, to print, to deliver to the MPs, to make paper expenses, to those who type, to the postal costs, and you will not speed up the session of the National Assembly. What does it mean to deny someone the right to discuss the amendment if he's not the amendment? What's the amendment-- the amendment is a kind of bill. If adopted, he enters the law, as a member or as part of a member of the law. Now you don't let an MP discuss something that's going to be the law tomorrow. If we follow that logic, then deny the right to discuss it even if it is not the legislator. Since the government is mostly a lawmaker, then deny the MPs the right to discuss the proposals for the law submitted by the government. God, they're not the ones who put up with the proposal. What do you get with it now in the quality of work? At speed, nothing will be won, at least as far as the SRS MPs are concerned, they have proved in this new session that they are ready to work and I am convinced that, after each session of the parliamentary group at home, they will make amendments to all the members of the bill to which amendments should be made. Then they'll show up here even with the others and they'll be able to discuss it. I know, someone sat down to think about how to prevent this kind of discussion, how to prevent radicals, end their right to discuss amendments. You won't. Here, let this Rules of Procedure enter into force, so suggest again this proposal for a decision on the Rules of Procedure, if there is no debate from 10.00 to 1 night the next day, I am prepared to apologize to you. It'll take a while, a team before you point us out that the sessions should last as long as possible. This is now a kind of conflict between the government and the opposition. You openly show your interest that the sessions last as short as possible, and we will openly show that the sessions last as long as possible. You want to discuss the bill as little as possible, and we want to discuss it as much as possible. The debate brings about better proposals. Here, let's see what that looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1773	Are any of the other promoters answering for a word? In the capacity of the Proposer? You haven't answered at all. All right, let's listen to the promoters first, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, last night at a session of the Federal Assembly of Presidents of the Council of Citizens, Mr. Micunovic, at one point when opposition MPs left the session, not wanting to vote on a shameful law, when outside the deserters amnested and the Cypriot criminals, he said, he didn't know the microphone was involved, he's fine, now we're going to fast-track the law, they all heard it. That's what Micunovic said, addressing the Secretary of the Federal Assembly, which, by the way, is much nicer than our secretary, but that doesn't matter. So it's not funny. So, you want to break the laws yourself, and we want to pass the laws according to the usual procedure, to discuss it, to find the best solutions, and that every amendment can be spoken of by all MPs who want to. Many different opinions will be a better solution, surely, and I call on all MPs to vote in favour of this amendment. And allow me, in the end, and the pronunciation of the insults of Mr Lekovic to our National MP, the SRS MP and his voice who associates in Šumadija with one, at least for us Serbs, anti-natural behaviour, I am telling him, don't worry about Lekovic, it will soon be legalised, at least so promising Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1775	Here you are, as a representative of the promoter. I'm sorry, I don't see you here as a proposing. No, the promoters are Stamenkovic, Cvetanović, Vukic and Nikolic. Your amendment will come later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1776	Since time's up, we could take a break. I think it's time for a break, Mr. President for breakfast. A joke aside, but we've led to absurdity. I didn't want to discuss today precisely because I was against the amendments and additions of this Rules of Procedure at all, because it is evident from these discussions and the answer that we haven't gone far from democracy, how much we've advocated. It doesn't matter now. I think it's an absurd situation that this amendment in some way allows us to shorten the discussion, because we're going to be in a situation that as many oppositions as there are, if it comes, MPs, that there's going to be so much of a proposal for each of those 200 laws, we're going to make so much of an amendment. Therefore, it is certain that the sessions will last longer. I would ask that there be little understanding for this proposal, which is proposed, not to reject ad hoc precisely because it comes from the opposition. There are members who can be accepted. That's why I'm proposing, because this amendment will allow us to keep our sessions shorter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1777	We can move on to a decision. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 149 MPs present. The same amendment was submitted by the Administrative Committee. The Legislative Committee has adopted this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? Yeah. ) Since the amendment was adopted by the Proposer and the Legislative Committee, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. To Article 33. The amendment was tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1778	Mr. President, at the presentation of the head of the DOS Parliament Club that it is possible to have a secret vote through the electronic system, I asked for a replica, because I brought here the fact that there is no man on the globe of the Earth who can prove it. It's just impossible, I'm telling you, because it's my profession, it's professional, and it doesn't exist. If you can find that, any man, I don't think you understand, and don't do that, with some papers, it says here. It doesn't matter what it says, the question is whether it's possible or impossible. Please don't take this time away from me, so this is like a replica of exposure, because a man just talks about something he doesn't understand, and I don't let him do it. Once again, one member restricting the electoral right, the fundamental freedom of the MP to speak in parliament. It reduces the possibility of Members participating in the debate. I don't see why this member is being introduced. A short time ago, at the proposal of a group of MPs, the amendments to this article were rejected. I'm still giving you a chance to accept this amendment. Why you introduced him, like, would be more effective work. Motive is more efficient work, and what is it really. Under that motive, you violate one of the fundamental freedoms -- freedom of speech. "You know, there is a story that a bad parliament is only being debated and nothing is being decided, but even worse is the parliament in which it is being decided and nothing is being debated. And you're just going towards making this parliament worse, so it's just being decided without having to discuss anything in it. What we're facing, what we're living in right now, is a repressive non-democracy regime. And his repressivity is primarily manifested in the appearance, character of the media, primarily in the state media, RTS, then in the ruling party's large material monopoly. Everything currently says that Serbia is going back through a system of unilateral government. If so, then there should be only one small illusion that there is still something of democracy left, of the multi-party and this parliament simply with all these changes, with the regulation of the rights of the minority, that's all it serves. This is the cover of incompetent freedom in this society. This Parliament, just as it is, with this composition, with all these changes to the Rules of Procedure, with all this repressive character of the Rules of Procedure, by limiting parliamentary debate, simply serves to conceal that this change has occurred. Of course, it's not easy to do. Two things need to be achieved. On the one hand, if you've already closed all the taps, the work of RTS, if you've customized the end and "Politicals", the way it works, if you control all the media, by shutting them down one by one, by the other, by local radio stations, if you've abolished all of this and only the illusions of keeping this Parliament with the transfer of public debates, then, normally, depending on what a minority in parliament looks like, as it responds, it takes some way to limit it. This is achieved by this kind of Rules of Procedure that lies before us." What I have told you now are the words of Mr., the current president of Yugoslavia, Vojislav Kostunica. It's a 1994 exposure, and you're even worse than that. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, for the sake of more effective work of this House, I suggest you accept this amendment and vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1779	Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 116, two abstentions, not 9 votes, a total of 161 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected... The People's Messenger is giving up. Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. ) Do the amendment's proposings want a word? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know what this is about, since I'm guessing most of us don't know what member is and what the amendment is about. Namely, this is about the right given to government representatives to complete any debate in the National Assembly which we consider rather inappropriate because the government has support in the National Assembly, has absolute, has a qualified majority and its MPs are able to fight the MPs of the opposition. At the same time, members of the government have the right to participate in the debate and at any time report for the word and receive word from the president of the National Assembly according to the Rules of Procedure. We believe that this paper is being introduced only because the government's representative will give the final word, that he will finally explain to the citizens and the people of Serbia what it is that they should think and what it is that adopted that day in the National Assembly, and that he will try to disqualify in a certain way everything the opposition MPs have said. So this is our intention, an attempt to protect the pride and dignity of the MPs of the people, and it seems quite justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1781	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly of Article 73 paragraph 1 point 11. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia shall exercise control over the work of the Government and other bodies and officials responsible for the National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution and the law. This Rules of Procedure will not allow us to perform this function properly, but let's not allow us to control the government, but rather put us in a position of subjugation to the government. This National Assembly exists because of the MPs. The government building is located in Germany's 11th and Germany's 22nd and other locations in Belgrade. The departments are pretty scattered after the bombing. This isn't a government building. Now we're going to discuss some draft law, and when we're done, a member of the government will come out to match our discussion, to slap the MPs of the opposition, and it will appear at the beginning of the debate, it's a practice in the current sessions, and it will come eventually to hold a letter to the MPs of the National Assembly, although the Rules of Procedure clearly states that the Government's representative gets the word whenever he asks for it. Although the Rules of Procedure say that in addition to the government's authorised representative and all other members of the government, if they attend the National Assembly's session, they have the right to receive a word whenever they ask for it, why, then, ask the decision-makers, and such a rigorous provision that when all MPs say what they had to say the government's representative comes out to give the final word. What's that for? What if a representative of the government says something that challenges MPs to speak again about this item of the agenda or, what else does a representative of the government have to say that he did not say, or that the MPs did not say in a debate that could take days before that. That is why we suggest that you do not humiliate yourselves, that you do not undermine yourself so much and that you leave the government's representative here in this assembly waiting for the outcome of the vote on a proposal, and not that it indirectly influences it by having the last one participate in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1783	Please allow us to determine the quorum before putting it to the vote. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 113, the abstention one, did not vote four, and 162 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1784	In article 35, I suggested the delivery of material to the MPs. Namely, I suggest that the material be delivered 14 days before the Assembly's maintenance. Why did I suggest that? Simply so MPs can prepare for laws and debates in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1785	Before the vote, please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 37, against 117, four abstentions, five did not vote, and 163 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 37. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1786	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm on Article 37. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, tabled an amendment and requested that it be deleted. For what? This Article, in the original text of Article 157, as regards the emergency procedure, in paragraph 2, says that only a law governing issues and relations could be passed following circumstances which could not be foreseen, and the adoption of an emergency law could cause adverse consequences and then be added to these changes and additions - the lives and health of people, the safety of the country, the republican authorities and organisations. I don't understand why in this member of the restrictions? I don't understand why such a narrowing of the grounds for passing the law by emergency procedure? If that purpose had been explained in an adequate manner, it would not have been necessary to apply the amendment, but I believe that it is the legislator who appreciates the reasons for the urgent procedure and is obliged to explain this urgent procedure and then these provisions and these restrictions are completely excessive, especially as in Article 38 of this same Rules of Procedure, which is the addition of the Rules of Procedure, it states that any proposal for the adoption of an act under the urgent procedure of the National Assembly shall, without prejudice to the establishment of the agenda, i.e. at the time of the sitting immediately following the receipt of the proposal. I remind the MPs of what is in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Circumstances and conditions in which we live and work change and change so quickly, or better to say worsen, that it is uncertain what the proposer will consider to be the reason for an emergency procedure at the moment. What, for example, if an international agreement is to be ratified, to decide on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, to call a republican referendum. I'm completely unclear about this definition, and that's why I've invested this amendment. I believe neither the Legislative nor the Administrative Committee has made an effort to understand the reasons for the submission of this amendment. Mr. Vukic also said earlier that he didn't understand why our amendments are being rejected like this, and I'm going to give him an explanation, both for him and for everyone else. The representatives of the board, both of them, met with the text of the motion for a decision only yesterday around 14 hours and apparently failed to understand the essence of the proposal, which was only known to a narrow number of people outside this Parliament who prepared it. One more thing, gentlemen, about all the restrictions you're trying to get through this Rules of Procedure, I'll tell you one thing -- I'm an MP, elected on the SRS list, in the Serbian Election Unit. My voters are asking me to sit in the third row here where I sit and whatever decision your Administrative Board has made to deploy me somewhere else, I'm going to sit right on this, so somebody move me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1787	Please determine the quorum before we approach the vote. Please call the MPs he has outside the door. We have a quorum. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 5, and a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? He doesn't accept. ) Does the amendment promoter want a word? He's got the word Alexander Wolfiche, the MP of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last member we're reporting for tonight, the last amendment, so I'm asking for a little patience. We've proposed to be a Article 39. The motion for a decision that you have provided us with changes and for a new chapter to be added in Chapter 14. on the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government. After Article 203, to add a new Chapter 203a, which would read (I will read it, and then I will explain it briefly. It's about introducing the Institute of Interpletion, what we've often wanted to introduce into our Rules of Procedure. We also heard from some authorities that they wanted to, so it would be good for them to accept it. ) "At least 20 MPs can file an impelation to investigate issues concerning the work of the government". If, eventually, Mr Pal Sandor's proposal -- to be 60-70 or 80-nation MPs -- were accepted, in particular, to make a mockery of the Serbian Radicals' intention that only the ruling majority, and none of the opposition political parties, could be triggered in this case. "Interpletion is submitted in writing. It must contain a clearly formulated and reasoned issue to be considered, as well as a proposal to conduct a search." This is very different from the government's work report. A lot of people said it was like that. This is drastically different and formally and materially-lawfully, there is no similarity to the government's work report. "The signatories of the interpretation specifically cite the authorised representative. If they do not, it will be believed that the authorised representative is the first signed MP." This is something we already had in practice and in the functioning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period. "The government is considering interpretation and delivering its position to the National Assembly president no later than 10 days from the reception of the interpretation." We think it's a reasonable and acceptable deadline, that it's a normal time at which the government can provide an answer. "The President of the National Assembly immediately upon receipt delivers the government's position to the MPs." We've developed a whole mechanism of interpretation, the way it's supposed to work, and the whole mechanism goes into action. "Intemplation is placed on the agenda of the National Assembly session, which must be held within 15 days of the day of obtaining the government's position on impelation." "If the Government fails to deliver an interpretation position within the deadline, the interpretation shall be placed on the agenda of the first next session of the National Assembly at a regular session after the expiry of that period." What makes the question of interpretation so important? I'm saying something that's not in the act itself. The bottom line is that we believe that at this time -- when there are a huge number of very important issues, key issues for our country's survival, for the survival of our nation, for the security and security issues of our people in southern Serbia, but also for the territorial issues in southern Serbia, especially in Presevo, Medvedji and Bujanovac, for all the problems in Kosovo and Metohija, about the growing hardships of our peoples in northern Serbia or Vojvodina, as some like to say, so on all these issues, and not to talk about key economic and social issues, about all the problems we face today -- it is possible that this assembly is working in the best way through the Interpletion Institute. For 10 years, there has been some kind of general silent consensus between different political structures and different political parties, that the Institute of Interruption should be introduced into our rules of procedure, especially when it comes to the relationship between the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we have cited a number of technical facts that must be taken into account and that must be respected if we want to...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1789	Time, Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1790	I'll be done soon. Therefore, this must be taken into account because without that interpretation it would not be possible to implement. I think it's important that I read you another point of view. If the motion is proposed by the promoter to agree on the transition to the next item of the agenda, without adopting conclusions, and the government's representative agrees to this, it is something that would be very important, especially in the conditions in which we work. What is also significant in order to avoid the possibility -- as you say -- of obstruction or serious vision of the obstruction of the National Assembly, which is also suggested in the text of the interpretation, is that the interpretation of the same issue cannot be resumed during the same meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that both the Government and the Assembly are sufficiently protected from any abuse. I am sure that there are responsible MPs in the National Assembly who would never do that, in any case. If the motion for a decision really wants to make the government responsible and independent of the views of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which unfortunately in the current debate towards the rejection of amendments proposed by the Serbian Radical Party was not the case, because we saw that we wanted to see at any cost the representatives of the Government and begin and end the debate, that they give the final court, that they would be the ones to disqualify opposition MPs, as we had the opportunity to see once when the Rules of Procedure was broken, I think at the very previous session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I think this is the best way, there is no better way in legal theory and legal-political practice.... I'll be done in 30 seconds. [[Sagar.]] I thought you might want to hear something, seeing as you haven't been doing anything all day. I am tired, but I did do something, and you have nothing to be tired of. No matter what, you yell and throw from the scene so rudely that it doesn't make any sense. If you think you're going to shut me up, you won't. Fortunately for you, in order for you to be able, in spite of all this unhappiness to go home peacefully, I will just end up saying that this is the best way for MPs to influence the work of the government. There is no other, there is no better way in legal-political practice, in parallel legal-political practice. It seems to me that if you refuse this amendment and what we have proposed, and I think there was some principle agreement between the different parliamentary groups, it will be clear to all of us, that unfortunately we were right at the beginning of today's debate, when we realized that the only goal of adopting a new Rules of Procedure is to reduce and deny the possibility of opposition MPs to act in the Assembly by means of more restrictive measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1791	He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to this text of the amendment, there is really not a single word of objection to this description of the interpretation that can be made. In our time, almost all of us, then members of opposition parties, were involved in making this text. I have it in my original form. It's that text, and I don't think there's a word that's too high or missing. And now on your conscience, how much your personalities have changed since October 5th to today, are you the same people who stood up for impelation at a time when someone else was in power? Since it's over, we're all very tired, I just want to congratulate the MPs of the SRS. You put them on a very difficult exam today, to read within two hours the proposal for a decision that has more than 40 members, to get them to prepare the amendments, to beat them up, to hand them over to the National Assembly, to prepare for a discussion of the amendments and to spend more than 15 hours in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In today's day, you appreciate how we, the Serbian Radicals, are going to work in this assembly in the future. You may not like it, it may upset you a lot, but we can't, we can't. We don't want to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1793	Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 49, anti-116, abstention 7 did not vote four, a total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Since the Legislative Committee has not spoken of this amendment, I would ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to make a statement. The rapporteur of the Legislative Committee does not accept this amendment. Does the promoter accept this amendment? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1794	I hope you will have patience, since this is the last amendment to today's amendment to the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure. The whole debate today has shown that the proposal on amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly is extremely restrictive and that it narrows the rights of Members of Parliament to do the work for which they have been elected here. I expected that the majority in this parliament, which calls themselves democratic, would respect the amendments of MPs Vukic and Mr Nikolic, given the fact that there was a lot of talk about the need to introduce an interpretation when adopting a Rules of Procedure that is still in force. However, since the proposal has not been accepted, I think we should preserve the dignity of the MPs in this House and defend their right and allow them to carry out their obligation as parliament, when it comes to controlling the functioning of the government. My amendment is very short and reads as follows: "on the proposal of the individual committee", the term "or parliamentary group" is added, and the text remains unchanged below. So this isn't about the initiative of 20 MPs, not 30 or 50. My wish was to allow every MP's group to apply for a report from the government, because that is the only way we could influence the government to report on what it is doing, on the results of its work, on the problems, on the state of affairs and so on. The fact is, we live in a difficult time. And, before the government and parliament are very serious issues, very serious problems. All these problems pose a serious burden to both the government and parliament. In this way, I think we would force the government to move closer to parliament, not alienate itself, as several previous sessions show. I would ask you to accept this amendment for the right function of Parliament when it comes to government and parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-27-0.u1795	I suggest we determine the quorum before the vote. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 182 MPs. This is what we've made the decision on the last amendment. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a single search and I am asking that we determine the quorum before the motion for a decision is voted. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I conclude the vote and find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority of votes, a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]]
