ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7136	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I suggest that you suspend the work of this assembly in accordance with your powers and schedule an emergency session of the Assembly in response to the adoption of the constitutional framework for Kosovo and Metohija, which Hans Hekerup brought. We're going to talk today and tomorrow and probably a few more days about the laws that are proposed and that have absolutely no chance of being adopted. Let us be realistic, with the respect of Mr Branislav Ivkovic, who submitted the proposal for a law on small and medium-sized enterprises, it is clear that this law will not pass. After all, let us be realistic and concrete and say that there was a time, at least 10 years earlier, for this law to be passed and implemented. I don't think sitting in this room makes any sense anymore if we talk about something that obviously won't be accepted, given that DOS has a large majority and that law won't pass, as well as the following laws that are on the agenda of this session. That is why I propose that this session be suspended and that an emergency session be scheduled on Kosovo and Metohija, as our reaction, to the Assembly's reaction to the really embarrassing constitutional framework brought by Mr Hans Hekerup, who directly leads to Kosovo and Metohija's independence. If the proposal is not adopted, the Serb Unity Party parliamentary group will leave the session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7137	Mr Pelevic, I fully understand the reasons why you think it is necessary to open an urgent debate on the situation in Kosovo. You know that the agreement of all parliamentary groups has been reached, that immediately after this session is over, and I, like all MPs, expect that the day after tomorrow or Wednesday, at the latest, and that we hold a debate on Kosovo immediately afterwards. Of course, we can take a break so the presidents of the parliamentary groups agree on your proposal, conduct consultations and, if we can, bring one common position on this issue. Of course, I'm a session I can't stop. We did it last time and interrupted the session, when it was suggested that Mr. Hekerup would bring that act. Now he's been brought in, and I think, that's my personal position, that we can go along with that previous agreement, to hold a session on the situation in Kosovo after this is over. If you're staying on the proposal, then I'd like to take a break from meeting the president of the parliamentary groups and bring a common position on this issue. (Borislav Pelevic, from the place: I stay. I'm taking a half-hour break. We'll continue at 11.00 hours. I'd like the presidents of the parliamentary groups or their deputies to meet me in the rooms on the 1st floor. [[After break, at 13.30 p.m.]] People's MPs, I won't ask you to establish a quorum. I'm sure we won't get it now because of this too long break we've had. I just want to let you know what we agreed, as soon as possible, and we'll talk about it in the follow-up session at 3:30. So meetings and consultations were held at the federal and republican level. It is agreed with the disagreement of the Serbian Unity Party to continue working on the agenda and to hold a session of the National Assembly on Monday to discuss the situation in Kosovo. By this point, we will have prepared reports from the Republic Government, taken by the Federal and Republic Government, a good basis on which we will open and conduct the debate and on which we will bring the relevant act. So, I'll let you know when you're in a larger number at the next session at 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7140	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party has today proposed that the work of this session be suspended, that an emergency session be scheduled on the state of Kosovo and Metohija. We were motivated by the following motives: The first constitutional framework brought by Mr Hans Hekerup is against Resolution 1244. Under Resolution 1244, the constitutional framework cannot be called the constitutional framework, but only a legal framework for self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. It's the first principle that has broken Mr. Hans Hackerup by signing that document. The second principle is that there is no mention of Serbia or Yugoslavia in the document anywhere. And in the original document, Resolution 1244, Kosovo and Metohija is treated as part of Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, not Serbia, but yet Yugoslavia. That's the second principle that was violated by Mr. Hans Hekerup. The third principle he has violated is the institution of the president of Kosovo, as they say, and we all say Kosovo and Metohija, because it is our constitutional term. Kosovo's term corresponds only to Albanians and their Western mentors. By establishing the institution of the president of Kosovo and Metohija, it means giving statehood to Kosovo and Metohija, which is also not foreseen by Resolution 1244. And the fourth principle, the basic principle, which was violated by Mr. Hans Hekerup, is that the Kosovo Protection Corps, or the re-trained Kosovo Liberation Army, the so-called KLA, will be the regular military force of Kosovo and Metohija. Just tell me, honestly, is there one Serb who will return to Kosovo and Metohija under these conditions? I don't think so. Thirty-three thousand exiled Serbs, Montenegrins, Gorans, Muslims and all other non-Albanians together cannot return to Kosovo and Metohija under these conditions. They cannot return, if only an Albanian flag exists there, only an Albanian coat of arms, an Albanian anthem, an Albanian army, although some other currency is established than a dinar, which is called a Dardan. So, Kosovo and Metohija through this constitutional framework gets all the elements of an independent state, we wanted to admit it or not. I hope none of us sitting here will admit it. Addressing the fate of 1,300 abducted and kidnapped Serbs is also a problem that we must put on the agenda, although adopted in the resolution. Also, Mr. Hans Hackerup doesn't mention anything about this element, which I hope is very important to us. The Serbian Unity Party does not want in this assembly to discuss some laws that are important in some other circumstances today and this week. Like the law on small and medium-sized enterprises, the law on the protection of minors, and so on for two reasons. First, we believe that the Socialist Party of Serbia has had enough time in the past 10 years to adopt these laws in the Assembly and to implement these laws. I think this is a little late. That's the first reason. The second reason is that it is quite certain that the majority of the DOS will not accept these laws. So we can sit here for four or five days, but it's absolutely certain that none of this will be adopted and we'll waste our time. I believe that every day lost for Kosovo and Metohija is as long as one year. Today again, for who knows which time, at the beginning of this session, we honor our dead heroes with a minute of silence. It's really ugly to talk about and play with their fates and their families. When are we going to start the assembly normally without honoring our dead heroes? I welcome on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party a peaceful and diplomatic solution to the problem in southern Serbia. I pray to God that when our forces enter Zone B, no more of our soldiers, no more of our officers die. We are the only party in the opposition to support Mr. Covic's peaceful plan, which wants this problem resolved in a peaceful and diplomatic way. I believe that our overall diplomacy and our overall policy in solving the problems of Kosovo and Metohija must be much more energetic, that it must be much more dynamic, that our diplomats and statesmen must ask in each meeting with foreign statesmen, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija and the application of Resolution 1244 as question number one. That's what this is about. Maybe this will be called demagogy, maybe cheap political tricks, maybe political marketing. The Statute and Programme of the Serbian Unity Party obliges us to view the issue of Kosovo and Metohija as one of our most important issues. That is why I see no reason to postpone this very important session on resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issues until Monday. I'm afraid it'll be too late. So once again, I recommend that we all decide together that tomorrow, tomorrow, we hold a session. As I learned at a meeting of representatives of parliamentary political MPs' groups, the session was decided to be only after the government has prepared adequate documents to discuss on Monday. I think it's too late and there's no reason to wait so long. We'll leave this session. That doesn't mean obstruction of work. We only have 14 MPs. There are 250 of us in total, so consider this only to be a principled respect for the programme and programme definitions of the Serbian Unity Party. We wish you pleasant work, and then we will probably see each other Monday, when the Kosovo and Metohija problems are discussed. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your understanding. (Serb Unity Party emissaries leave the session).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7141	According to the Rules of Procedure, this takes place under the agreement of parliamentary groups and of course you will not find it in the Rules of Procedure, if this applies. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7142	I thought the first ones to talk about it today would talk about it. We did not participate in these agreements, because we know about what these agreements could come up with you on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. We offered you last week to discuss it, because the matter is very urgent, burning. Because even at that session, where we discussed the resolution, we were not convinced that the government of Serbia and the federal government, that the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is ready to resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. And just to refresh your memory a little bit, at that session, and there's no more than 10 days since we had that session, I asked you -- and what if these legal frameworks are still brought in, what if our resolution doesn't bear fruit, what if no one in the world listens to us anymore. And no one in the world hears our state-of-the-art aspirations anymore. Especially what it says in the Constitution. What if your destructive kneeling policy in front of the international community led to us no longer looking for anything? What if your internal policy has led citizens to suffer and observe what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, because they can no longer buy bread and milk. You're not ready? The Prime Minister wasn't ready to open a debate on the subject, and we'll be ready for the session whenever you schedule it. We wish it was last week when we asked for that session, and I am convinced that we are wasting valuable time and that none of you know what is going on in Kosovo and Metohija, what is happening in southern Serbia. You are getting reports from Neboja Covic who is an unreliable man for it, who has completely lost his course. His information, that's KFOR's information. I warn you of only one thing that although you have found a poor country, a country where many things have not worked, the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and in southern Serbia is now much worse than at a time when you took over power. You have to face it. You must, at any session and whenever it is held, face those who say so, who now swear in the benches of everything and everything, there are enough arguments. A lot of arguments are in the fact that the situation is much worse. We don't want to get stubborn around here. We're not the quorum party, it's all serious to us what the Assembly is doing here. Be prepared, ask your government to provide you with clear and concrete material Monday. What will the government of the Republic of Serbia do about the obvious, permanent loss of Kosovo and Metohija. You owe us an answer to that question Monday. It is no longer an answer to the opposition, it is an answer to the citizens of Serbia, and above all, to the Serbian people in general. We're not going to open a debate about this today. I believe that you gave us a curatorial word to plead this out, and you know about what Monday, if that session comes Monday, you can expect from the Serbian Radical Party MPs. We are proud that while we were in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia had no problem with this, we are proud that the Shipari were then not allowed to kill our people, the police and the army, they attacked us, but they were also killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7143	Mr. Ivkovic, come in. Mr. Zechariah, let's keep it down.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group on January 30th, February 12th and April 3rd submitted written initiatives to the agenda... Mr. Chairman, would you explain to the individuals here that they are in the Serbian Parliament... The Socialist Party of Serbia has submitted initiatives to the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly to discuss not only the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, but also the situation in southern Serbia. The wish of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia was for this assembly, assumed by 250 thinking people, together with its executive body, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to assess the situation, to define the criteria of conduct, rules of conduct and limitations, the boundaries to which individual negotiators who come on behalf of Serbian citizens, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this assembly, themselves, are allowed and can go. Therefore, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group fully understands the initiative of the Serbian Unity Party that has been shown here today, and in this sense we have participated in the talks of all the presidents of the parliamentary groups with the president and vice-presidents of the Republika Srpska Assembly. These talks clearly dominated the view that it is necessary for such consideration that there is a document based on whom we have decided, as we had a document, a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we here, the MPs of the Assembly, have significantly changed and adopted a resolution of this assembly that should serve us proudly, because we have adopted it unanimously. We unanimously defined our relations to the outcome of this nation's fight against NATO aggressors, which is the application of Resolution 1244. We have made it clear and loud that both the moral and formal obligations of the international community that have created the problem to bring this problem to an end, that finally by this Resolution 1244, it is worth all that is written down. In this resolution, Article 9 made it clear and loud that the international community is the one who, through the security authorities of the United Nations and KFOR and through UNMIK, must ensure public order and security for all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, and thus return to exiled and refugees. We said, when this is secured from Resolution 1244 on the basis of Article 9 then the application of Article 10 of that resolution can run where local autonomy is spoken of, where elections are being held. That's what we brought here. We ourselves have brought here in this congregation and that is the minimum of national interests that we have defined. That is why we said, at a meeting with the president and vice-presidents of the Assembly, that it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose certain documents based on which we can discuss the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and that our wish is also on the state of Serbia's south. In southern Serbia, too, moves are being drawn which, if you will, have not passed the verification of the highest authority of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It rejected the majority's stance, the majority's stance was respected, the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly had contacts with the appropriate people. We are told that the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot prepare appropriate documentation before Wednesday or Thursday, if time is taken to prepare, so Monday is the earliest date when we can discuss the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately without talking about the situation in southern Serbia, but we will certainly discuss it in parallel. It is clear that someone has invented the problem of southern Serbia. It was invented by the outgoing US administration, it left a trap so that it could, in principle, connect the courts to make the situation difficult for us in Kosovo and Metohija, and perhaps make it easier for the south of Serbia, and thus play with us, with its goals. We say it's the greatest national interest. Yes, Kosovo and Metohija are of national interest, it is a question of the statehood of the Serbian people, but also of the economy. Kosovo and Metohija cannot be separated from the economy, from citizens' standards. To us is Kosovo and Metohija and served as a problem. They are terrorists, not dear gentlemen extremists. The terrorists are made up, invented by them, with stupid heads, who wanted to come here to solve the problems they came up with. The terrorists are there to reduce the national economy, to reduce production, to reduce standards, to manage these areas more easily. Therefore, when we say national interest, it is not just monuments of the Serb people, it is not self-managers. Kosovo and Metohija are the problem, which is an excuse for the lack of capital in these areas. Kosovo and Metohija are a problem for a shameful proposal of the Hague law to be discussed by the federal government, where any police officer can arrest the honorable Serbian citizens who have defended their country in Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are an excuse for many moves towards this people. It is our duty to do our job in the Serbian Parliament. It is clear that if we continue to work today, it is not because we need to consider the laws that are on the agenda (we were ready to interrupt the session), but we continue to work because the government of Serbia and the federal government, obviously they have to have a certain space for intertours that have to be dragged and which should not be said everywhere, and we understand that, in this impotence, ours, that at least somewhere try to find something, to fix. Therefore, we have agreed to continue the work, simply because we cannot discuss Kosovo and Metohija immediately, because the government is not ready to give us the document immediately. It was an idea or we could stop the session and just sit on Monday, or we could keep working. Most people's agreement is to continue the work and to consider the laws that are and how important they are. The quality of these laws should also be considered, not given flat-rate estimates for 10 years back. That's what the people are getting tired of listening to. Consider the law and say what is right, say openly what is wrong with both law and law. Finally, the citizens of Serbia will read it. They'll read it in all the papers, so they know what you've accepted or that they know what you refused to do. And as for Kosovo and Metohija, on Monday we will discuss, as a national interest above all, the national interest in the survival of this people, its statehood, the successful work of the economy and the increase of standards, because Kosovo and Metohija are the plight of those 500,000 citizens. A large part of them have been expelled -- avoided from Kosovo, a small part is in great trouble because of the lack of international community's work, its failure to meet security and security obligations, labour rights, the abuse of citizens of Serbian nationality by KFOR and UNMIK, but Kosovo and Metohija are important for resolving us, due to investment in this country and the development of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7145	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7146	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I was also the last time we talked about Kosovo and Metohija, saying that it would be difficult for any of us to say something new about the problem that exists in Kosovo and Metohija, and that the only opportunity and space in which we can do something new, a place where we will behave differently than we have done for the past 10 years. Citizens are constantly faced with the Kosovo and Metohija problem, but the Kosovo and Metohija problems were normally in the role of those parties that consisted of the Slobodan Milosevic regime. When it was reportedly not known what would be done with Kosovo and Metohija, the citizens were asked a referendum question, so that they could find an answer, but there was no idea what would be done with the consequences of such a relationship with Kosovo and Metohija. In Serbian citizens, traitors have been found. Today, when we must consciously discuss the responsibility that follows us in power, but also us as MPs of this House, we are not in a position to have a proper debate, because we are able to talk about something that is a political phrase. None of us are running away from the problems of Kosovo and Metohija. On the contrary, we have made it clear that we will discuss this problem and try to find an adequate solution to the outcome of the disaster that we have come to. It is clear that a session of Parliament will be held on Monday and that the MPs will be familiar with the documents and initiatives, which will be jointly proposed and formed by the Republic and the Federal Government. The congregation must be a place for responsible and effective decisions to be made, to make smart moves, to be smart, and not hasty. Since the arrival of the international forces in Kosovo and Metohija, there has never been an organised session of Parliament, which would be an opportunity for MPs to declare the problems that exist in Kosovo and Metohija, not once before the DOS's arrival in this parliament and the willingness of DOS MPs to discuss these topics. We are not running away from the problems of Kosovo and Metohija, nor are we pointing fingers at those we consider guilty of this problem, because it is no use. There won't be a way out of the situation we're in, there won't be a false reconciliation out of the situation we're in. The only way out of the situation where we're in is smart politics, politics without excess emotion and passion, the policy that tells us at this point -- don't argue with the world, because in that fight you'll just go one step further, you'll never be one step closer to a solution. Don't pick hard words, don't reach for phrases, don't take into the mouth of the dead, because with such a story you can hardly avoid analogy where those who speak most today about Kosovo and Metohija are the biggest culprits on the part of the Serbian people for what happened in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, because ten years Kosovo and Metohija have been used as the sole basis for stealing elections, as a place where our society will be organized, as a place where hatred will be sown primarily towards breaking up our national beings. We will not be the political group, nor the political force that will follow such a policy. We'll meet on Monday at this place, we'll talk about it, and by then the Assembly will be doing its job. If we are not prepared to discuss the laws ahead of us, then we are not prepared to perform the duties of MPs. We can be agitators on the streets, but we cannot possibly talk as responsible representatives of the people about such a painful issue, exclusively driven by personal passions and emotions and the impatience of one another. Those who were not ready today to participate in a dialogue of representatives, not authorities and opposition, but representatives of Serbian citizens, were not ready to seek a compromise solution. We will see whether a session that will be organised on Monday will be an opportunity for us to stand responsibly against one problem and try to establish a policy, which will not be a policy of conflict with the world, a policy in which innocent people are normally killed, but rather a policy in which responsibility will first be taken over for ourselves by those who create it, politicians. We are not running away from such responsibility, on the contrary, taking it upon ourselves, but I repeat once again, Kosovo and Metohija for the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, for the parliamentary majority in this assembly, will not be an opportunity to read phrases and demagogy. There will be an opportunity in which we will speak responsibly and follow what we say about this speaker. I call on you to continue our work as we have done so far, that regardless of the circumstances in which we are working today, we will try to finish our work and then prepare ourselves responsible for a session of Parliament to discuss the solution to the problem in Kosovo and Metohija, to wait for the results of our forces to enter zone B of the land zone of security, and then to see in one new circumstances whether there is a chance that the very difficult situation of Kosovo and Metohija will turn, not for the benefit of the Serb people, but for the benefit of civilised civil life in which national barriers and borders are not being made, because, finally, the accident resulting from such a policy is not an accident that recognises them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7147	After this, we can continue to consider the bill on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, in principle. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report in accordance with Article 95 ad hoc item of Article 1 98, but I will say just a few words, since the later speakers have taken the opportunity to take advantage of the fact that the representatives of Serbian radicals did not participate in some extra-business arrangements, I just have to say that it seems to me as a folk MP that strange things have happened in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Strange, above all, because we are as a parliamentary group and as MPs, and not one, two or two, three, but at least 20 of us, almost all last week, are looking for a special session for Kosovo and Metohija in these constitutional and legal frameworks for Kosovo and Metohija. No one has ever responded to that. Not a single word, no one interrupted the session because of it, so he called and made special meetings, so that it would be a rule again. It seems to me that this too shows the relationship between the MPs, most of all, and others in this National Assembly towards the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group and their proposals. Why were we talking about this? There are a few things, and I'll be very brief within these three minutes, as far as I'm concerned, so because of something, it seems to me, a small number of people in Serbia have read it and I wish we could find a concrete solution, not a story about what happened in the past 10 years. However, we radicals have never stolen the elections down there, but we have lost the elections because of the theft in Kosovo and Metohija, as we have never and never stolen them, but I have to say something that seems to me to seduce those in this assembly who have not heard or read it, and almost nowhere or in very few places have had the opportunity to read this. I'm sure that'll happen with the whole public. So I'm just going to read you a part of these copies, and that's why it was important, which is why we think it's important to start before and why it was important last week, when the radicals insisted on it. Kosovo is said to be territory with the majority Albanian people, and in another point it is said that sovereign Kosovo comes from the people and belongs to it. The free will of the people, which is the Albanian people, is the foundation of the state government. Kosovo residents are said to have the right to citizenship, it is said that Kosovo has a president representing it both in the interior of Kosovo and in the world, it is said that Kosovo has all its state attributes - coat of arms, anthem, flag... (President: Time. Here I am, Mr. President. I'm finishing up, be patient, or come out for a pay phone. [[Sagar.]] Here, I'm just finishing up. Kosovo is said to have a central bank and governor, and the currency is a gift. And what's most interesting, and that's what I'm going to end up with, which is why you shouldn't talk so much, but to read, if you haven't already read it, the Kosovo Assembly is with a two-thirds majority...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7149	Mr. Vukic, I've been too tolerated letting you talk about the Rules of Procedure and show maximum impudence to what it means to abuse of parliamentary rights, to report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7150	All I have to say is that your findings are maximum insolence, maximum inaccuracy, if you want maximum non-Serb and maximum inhumane. Because you can't stand someone reading to you in half a minute... [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7151	It's not the length. It's the theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7152	.... What you didn't want. Because of the subject? Did it bother you for three minutes? Well, three minutes if I'd been standing, you could've lasted, and such a comment that you wouldn't give. But that's the essence of your political action, that's what I was telling you about earlier. If you'd accepted a radical proposal last week, you wouldn't have had these problems. But I'll tell you, you can't insult anyone with your insults, not because they have no cheek, but because you've referred you to everyone, at every moment and in every way. I just want to tell you that two-thirds of the Cypriot MPs can make a decision about changing borders, changing the constitution and making a decision on independence. That's what you hide from the people. And you can tell me as many times as you want me to be bold and that this isn't true. Unfortunately, it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7153	You've been talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure for five minutes, and there's no sign of any damage to the Rules of Procedure. You spoke for five minutes, leading the controversy with you, about the situation in Kosovo. Indeed, I think I have justifiably warned you, and most kindly I ask you, all MPs, that you do not abuse parliamentary rights. It must be given a word to the MP to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, but I ask you not to abuse that right. Any of you. I said I was talking to everyone. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic I said, all MPs. [[Alexander Vukic is looking for a replica.]] What's wrong with that? What's there for a replica? What's offensive about that? What was misread? The clock says whether it is five minutes or not (the President speaks to the MP Vukic all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7154	Ladies and gentlemen, the time period behind us, especially since the introduction of sanctions to our country, and even a few years before that, has shown that large industrial systems have dried up. It will achieve a large number of employees, as well as large overhead costs, the overcome way of management and management, the absence of labour discipline and business culture, the absence of business flexibility, i.e. large systems have become a ballast of the whole society. A necessary privatisation, which took place a little shyly a few years ago, and which is supposed to take a swing this year and next, will bring an inevitable problem for the extra unemployed. Because of the change in owners, a large number of employees will be out of a job. For their social care, the government has provided for certain funds from privatisation-based funds, but it is clear to everyone that these funds will be insufficient to address the social problems of extra employees. Compared with the weakening of large industrial systems, private entrepreneurship develops, both small crafts and commercial and catering activities, and thus small and medium-sized manufacturing companies, built mainly by their own resources. These small and medium-sized enterprises have become a very fast support and the healthiest part of our economy. This also confirms that in small and medium-sized enterprises today we employ more than 500,000 employees, or about 20% of the total number of employees. Also, the data suggests that these 500,000 employees of small and medium-sized enterprises are not fictitiously employed, but really employed, who make up nearly 20% of the country's social product. The economic sanctions, the war in the environment, the aggression of the NATO Pact, as well as the overall political and economic situation, which I hope we have definitely gone through, have also exhausted private entrepreneurs, who are now in a position to no longer invest in their own development despite their best wishes. This is just about the justification of an idea like this, the idea that the government of the Republic of Serbia pays more attention to this particular segment -- the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Maybe this law isn't the best. There's probably better solutions. But this proposal is the first in our practice, the first in this government, and that is why we need to get the support of this assembly. This, of course, assumes its later completion, its completion, certain changes in accordance with practical experiences that will show its advantages and disadvantages. Some of the predecessors said that this country does not need to adopt and that it has such a law, and that such laws do not exist in either Italy or Switzerland or in other developing countries of Europe. Maybe this finding is correct. But it should be kept in mind the differences that exist between us and the developed world. In the developed world, this type of company has found its place, took its place, and there is some estimates between 65% and 80% of employees in small and medium-sized enterprises. Thus, they had already crossed these pioneer steps there. There these companies have chosen their status, and our position is very different from those in those countries. Also, I believe that this law is by no means a limiting factor for our entrepreneurs, but rather, its goal should be to create a commitment to the government of the Republic of Serbia to pay much more attention to these small and medium-sized enterprises in the future. In my opinion, this law should cover a transitional period. The period to complete reconstruction of the banking system, until the banks are able to credit the economy on favourable terms, i.e. with minimum interest. In this transitional period, the state should assume the role of creditors to provide funds for short- and medium-term loans under favourable conditions so that entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, can continue their development. A country's approach to this problem would achieve a basic goal, which is to amortise social tensions that are inevitable in the privatisation process. According to some estimates, the privatisation process will leave around 800,000 jobless, and if a large number of young people are just finishing schools and colleges and going to the labour market, the number of unemployed in the near future will be passed over by the number of employees in the country. If 350,000 entrepreneurs, which businesses, are employed in the next period, with the help of the state, on average by two workers, we will employ about 700,000 new workers in a very short period of time, thereby significantly reducing social tensions and amortising the negative effects of privatisation. Therefore, I personally accept the idea that such a law should be adopted in this assembly, and that such a law should be brought to life in the Republic of Serbia, with a view, primarily, to cover the transitional period in terms of the state taking over the role of creditors, for the state to take over the role of managing a significant part of the economy, a segment of medium and small enterprises, so that this segment of the economy could amortise the negative consequences of privatisation. I primarily think of private businesses here, because I believe that a consensus has been reached in this country that privatisation should go as soon as possible, that social property has been overcome and that it should disappear as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7155	The word has a National MP, Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7156	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I had no intention of reporting for discussion on this agenda point in the previous period, because I felt that this law should not, in this procedure, waste a lot of time, for one basic reason -- I promised my colleague Panajotovic that I would use an unusual term -- which is why I do not think that time should be spent, because I think this law is a weather. The storm of this law is reflected in the fact that this law knocks on the open door and knocks on the open door because the basic concept of the economic and economic development of DOS, where it won elections, and the basic concept, even the priorities of the Serbian government are currently based on development and encourage development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, we are talking about the fact that the Council for Small and Medium Enterprises has been formed at the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, that a Council for Small and Medium Enterprises has been formed in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined and has already invested certain resources to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, that by the end of the year the Government of the Republic of Serbia is likely to provide and invest several hundred million marks to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. And then I decided to go out and talk about this because, as an MP, the citizens of Kostolec asked me a question -- can you, Mr Kovacevic, explain to us why, at once, the love of the Socialist Party of Serbia, so, the legislator of this law, according to the workers, why so much love for young people and concern for young people, related to the next law that comes? It's clear that I'm my opinion - where did that come from? What I'm about to say now is a typical example of demagogue approach and political marketing, which is being conducted through a congregation pay phone. And the basic reason and objection, which can be said to the applicant of this law, lies in the fact that you, Mr. Bane Ivkovic, if I am not mistaken, have been minister in two ministries in the Serbian government for six years. Ten years, eleven years old, Serbia's Socialist Party is in power. Since you do not remember that for eleven years the government of the Socialist Party of Serbia, in six years of your ministry you do not submit this law, do not adopt it, do not provide funds, do not work on its realization, but remember to propose it now, when it is clear to you that the new Government of the Republic of Serbia is working on these things. You are in your arguments why this law should be passed states that since 1990 you have done this and that, during the bombing and after the bombing, you have taken measures to implement this law. It's just amazing, we haven't had a chance to see, so you mention a project of 2,900 companies, small and medium, that you wanted to support, and, for a wonderful miracle, I've submitted two such projects for that program of yours -- none of those two projects were in your program. The obvious thing is that you've been building projects to develop companies, which are founders or owners of members of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and you're finally saying that financial resources for the implementation of this law should be provided at 300 million dinars. Indeed, it is funny that the former minister, in two terms, for such an extremely essential problem of economic and economic development in Serbia, provides for 300m dinar funds. Now, for these reasons, we haven't even come out with a bill like this, because DOS has its legal projects prepared well first, provides a material basis for their realization and then comes out with such projects that it is sure it will be able to implement. For the realisation of a project like this, not 300 million dinars, 300 million dollars wouldn't be enough. And then when these funds are secured, then there may be a new concept, and by then, the democratic government of Serbia is already working to realize what you're knocking on the open door for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7157	The word is Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7158	As for distinguished colleagues, as for my work, I was seven years in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for four years I was Minister of Construction and three years Minister of Science and Technology. As Minister of Construction, I've done nine legal projects, from the Law on Community Works, the Law on Building Land, I can't count, you won't remember what I've done. But much more important than all that, in 1994, the government of the Republic of Serbia introduced the Ministry of Private Entrepreneurship. You know my colleague, Djukic, who was a minister. Thanks to him and his work, we have, in essence, fulfilled a great commitment by the Socialist Party of Serbia - to introduce the embargo and sanctions to this people, which should have been harassed, no one will be without a job. Thanks to this, Mr. Kovacevic, we currently have 180,000 private companies and 191 stores. The trouble is, it's been seen that everyone's being chaotically opening up what's coming to his mind, which is why we did this, we're doing it operationally and specifically. We don't work in principle, say we do, we do the job. The government of the Republic of Serbia should take on a strategic commitment to provide a projection of production programs that correspond to this country, not that each opens thousands of pizzerias, thousands of shops, and you do not have production plants, those we need to substitute imports and re-competitions and equipment. But thanks to that, 520,000 workers work in small and medium-sized enterprises, at the end of the year 2000. In all, 19% of employees are private-owned small and medium-sized enterprises. Of the total funds, 36% are located in small and medium-sized enterprises, which were formed during the Socialist Party of Serbia's rule. And 27% of the capital available to the economy is turning to these private businesses, and 17% is involved in the creation of a social product and there is a problem of control and the problem of the gray economy. Therefore, these two laws that we are considering and the following laws are only the result of activities in the war, the second half of 1999 and 2000, the result of a great experience in connecting domestic knowledge, domestic intelligence and the need to employ 80,000 workers from broken-down factories. We have been able to provide them with, to a good extent, only this positive experience, in co-operation with the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade, 47 institutes and 25 universities, have made it possible for us to have 3,000 business programmes. And they made one builder say -- let's see what it is and start working with smart people at the Institute of Comparative Law, pass 18 towns of Serbia, get consultations and give the law that you might refuse, but if you reject it, know that on Thursday, all Serbian citizens will read and wonder -- why did you reject it?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7159	The People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Zivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7160	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People, and the previous discussion, as well as many so far, and also part of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the proposed law, created a dilemma among a group of MPs - should this law ever be passed to Serbia, whether it should be passed or not? I would like to take advantage of something that is familiar to you, and probably to our public, these are the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, article 72, item 9, which is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides basic objectives and directions for economic, scientific and any other development, as well as to lead policy and establish measures to guide and encourage development. So talking about this issue is not only about the wish of the Socialist Party of Serbia, but also about the constitutional obligation, as well as the need for the moment in which our country is located after years of sanctions, when we become part of the international market. It's a small controversy with the government's opinion. The government tells us that encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises provides already existing legislation - taxes, privatisation, banking system, credit policy, as well as economic policy measures. This would be good if that were the case. It may be sometimes, but it's not like that now. In fact, what's listed here just doesn't stand. We just deleted those benefits that were embedded in the system, which existed for small and medium-sized enterprises, with a package of tax laws that this assembly had adopted in the previous weeks. We also witness that our banking system, as well as credit policy, is in such a situation that they can't afford any benefits to small and medium-sized enterprises due to lack of capital. It is surprising that the ruling majority rejects such a law that allows some burning issues, related to this problem, to be resolved. We believe that, if most define that this law is accepted, the adoption of this law will achieve the following strategic objectives: that there will be an increase in employment, that there will be a change in production structure, an increase in competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, the introduction of modern technologies, an increase in the degree of innovation, that regional development, energy saving, the processing of secondary raw materials and the protection of the environment, a higher degree of finalisation and specialisation in the production and promotion of exports, as well as the implementation of the substitution of imports, and that the achievement of these objectives will provide some strategic elements, such as the increased return of our citizens who are on temporary work abroad, that there will be an accelerated development of agriculture and villages, the development of industrial co-operation, the introduction of technological innovation, the increase of exports, the development of traffic, trade and other territorial activities. We believe that these are the positive consequences of the possible adoption of this law. Some of the fellow MPs have been lenient, with the tendency to privatise, which follows us as a process and this law is not in co-operation with each other. However, we believe that only the privatisation done will create the right environment of trust for entrepreneurs and that the process of privatisation and development of entrepreneurship is inextricably linked. We must also be aware that today neither in Yugoslavia nor in Serbia there are institutions nor institutional mechanisms to help and stimulate the development of new small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the corporate restructuring of existing enterprises. There is no institutional network that would benefit from the conduct of an efficient entrepreneurship policy. It is precisely the absence of such a network that is a major restriction on the acceptance of foreign aid. You know that many programs -- "Tempus Program", the Far Programme, loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, are even dedicated to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is simply surprising that the government's commitment to deprive the majority of the institutional mechanism that needs to ensure that this assistance, which is likely to come in some quantities, is received, accepted and distributed in the right way. What I would like to say at the very end, given that we are all talking about the need for the regulations we are making to comply with European Community regulations, I would like to remind some members of the Treaty on European Community, members from 87 to 89, so on. The law of the European Union relating to this area that we are talking about, which provides for a ban on state subsidies from the budget for the benefit of the economy. There are exceptions to this ban and they are related to elemental disasters, when it can be subsidized from the budget and other exceptions, when it comes to stimulating small and medium-sized enterprises. For all other issues, if money from the economic budget is wanted, a special commission must be proposed, on the council of ministers who make a special decision on any such subsidy. What are we doing here in Serbia? We are passing the Budget Law, which gives four billion in the discretionary right of the Minister of Industry, to subsidise just the large enterprises, where the problems are the biggest, and we reject a law that, exactly in accordance with European Union regulations, says that it is also necessary to focus some of the budget resources on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I think the majority's decision not to accept this law hastily, that we will be very pleased if the government in due time, or as soon as possible, gets this or some similar law, I believe that we will accept it, but there is a chance that the seriousness and the way you came to this proposal is not in favour of this thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7161	The word is made by the People's Messenger Zivanko Radovanchev, and after him Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7162	I have long thought about whether to take part in the discussion of this very quality and necessary, above all, a legal solution, which should be institutionalised and regulated in a legally based way, in the direction of encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I've decided to keep your attention for a few minutes. The existence of an adequate legal and institutional framework in this area is, above all, a prerequisite for the rapid development of small and medium-sized enterprises. First of all, this implies a legislative and sub-legislative regulation that will act incentivically on the establishment and operation of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the promotion of adequate institutions, which would act in the direction of their faster development. In the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, above all, these countries are in the process of transition, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is given exceptional attention, and for us can be a particularly interesting experience in Slovenia. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Slovenia was conducted in parallel with the privatisation process. This significantly affected the restructuring of the Slovenian economy, from large to small and medium-sized enterprises, which produced positive results and their competitiveness on the European market. The large companies were technologically outdated, overloaded by excess labour and market uncompetitive. The market would have to, large companies to decentralised themselves, and the emergence of small and medium-sized enterprises has caused a partial and increased unemployment rate. Why in Serbia, we would not use positive experiences from other countries in times characterised by the crisis of large economic systems and high unemployment rates. It is necessary to accept the proposed legislative solution and to encourage the development of these companies to a greater extent. Encouragement and development of small and medium-sized enterprises is justified for several reasons. One, there is no need for capital investments to set up and operate these companies. Two, these companies are a factor in faster employment, primarily free labour. Under three, small and medium-sized enterprises are entities that conquer surpluses representing drivers of economic development. Under four, small and medium-sized enterprises are significant exports of fiscal resources to the state. Under five, fostering the development of small and medium-sized enterprises falls under the restructuring process of the economy, the transition to the commercial principles, the implementation of the privatisation process and further economic development. In our country, there are huge and untapped opportunities for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in agriculture and rural areas, which have so far been little used in Serbia's development. That development, in my opinion, could be happening in three directions. One, private, small and medium-sized manufacturing companies. Under two, private, manufacturing and service activities of rural crafts and trade. And under three, small businesses and workshops of domestic work and rural tourism agencies. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises and plants of production, service and processing character in the countryside, small businesses and workshops of domestic employment, agencies and rural tourism bureaus would help develop the socio-cultural context of people in the countryside and faster local employment of the population, especially young people. This would ensure that young people remain in the country. The establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises in agro-business and rural areas, in economically underdeveloped areas, could make a significant contribution to a more balanced regional economic development. In line with the overall economic and social developments in our country, small and medium-sized enterprises represent and will represent the basic holders of the restructuring of our economy. In agriculture, there is a possibility of an even greater presence of small and medium-sized enterprises, because there are also agricultural holdings that function in a seemingly similar way, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises. In order to further develop small and medium-sized enterprises, we need to adopt the proposed legislative project, as well as institutional and financial support. At the very end, as we claim to take steps with the world, we need to know that the 21st century in the world will be characterized by a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in agribusiness, i.e. agriculture and rural areas. This is indicated by the unlimited expansion of the rural population, which will further increase the need for more food, and in the conditions of limited farmland, as well as limited resources of healthy water, and for new jobs outside industry and large cities in agribusiness and rural areas. I believe that with my exposure above all, I have contributed to better understanding of the need, to support the establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will certainly have an important place in the restructuring and transition processes of our economy and society in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7163	The word is by MP Vladimir Garcevic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7164	Since the beginning of February, we have first found that we have a complete law, a law that gives us the opportunity to look at the development and perspective of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. So far, we have dealt primarily with the tax issues of nature, which we should have achieved budgeting and, according to the claims, it was all a alignment with the trends in Europe and with the tax bases of the citizens of Europe. Since the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe is being given great attention, we believe that special attention should also be paid to this issue in our country. The claims that normative acts in our country are sufficient to ensure the proper development of these companies do not stand. The offer of such a law allows you to approach this issue in a comprehensive way. Therefore, we can say that since 1990 the development of small businesses in our country has increased every year. However, it is likely that their structure itself is not the one that should be because they are primarily a useful character, not a productive one. I therefore believe that this development of small and medium-sized enterprises should be directed at the country level, by the establishment of a special agency which would have, above all, not a centralised component, as it is said, but a development component. The Agency would primarily deal with the provision of funds, both from the Republic's budget and with the funding of donations and other contributions. These funds would focus on restructuring our country's economy and creating small and medium-sized enterprises, which would employ new workers and those workers we expect to lose their jobs in privatisation. The Agency's task would also be to allow legal frameworks in our country's territory to also help experience from other countries, in the transfer of experiences from Europe. This would create the preconditions for small and medium-sized enterprises to gain momentum, even bigger, in our country, and for the government of Serbia to channel this by encouraging measures towards the production and creation of new goods. I expect this law will be accepted as such, because there is no basis for rejection, regardless of what the Socialist Party of Serbia is submitting. All the questions why not, why not then, I don’t think that such questions should be asked in this congregation anymore. Every moment he suggests something new and good for the people of the Republic of Serbia is the right moment. What the government is going to do-- let it complete certain regulations, so we don't wait for new legal solutions for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7165	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7166	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my presentation of this law will be somewhat shorter than usual. In fact, there have been many questions about this bill why right now, why the Socialists did not pass one of these laws during the 10-year and 11-year-old governments to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I need to remind you of one fact. We started the transition process in the early 1990s, and at the same time it started with that process, in our country there was a really unrecorded system, so to speak, for the work of small and medium-sized enterprises and for the work of the economy at all. Above all, it was caused by the sanctions imposed on our country. Then, from the 1990s, sanctions continued, selectively of course, with tightening until 1993, when inappropriate sanctions in the history of the international community were seduced. It is normal that such an environment with wars, with sanctions, did not allow the transition process to be carried out at such a pace and to the extent that it was possible to carry out such a process in countries that did not have the difficult circumstances that we had. It is not surprising, therefore, that such a law was not passed during that period. In fact, this period was marked by the state's efforts to protect the property, to protect existing companies, so that not in this one, truly unnatural, environment, there would be a devaluation of the value of the company and that these companies would not practically fail. Because of this, the transition that has three phases, therefore, liberalisation, stabilisation and modernisation, which as such has not, as in some much more advanced countries, as ours, led to that third stage, to the stages of modernisation, could not be implemented even on the basis of this first phase, to the phase of liberalisation. The phase of liberalisation is created right now when this parliament adopts laws that are indeed the laws of a liberal type, a type of liberal capitalism, which will impose on economic operators obligations which they are unable to respond to and are unable to meet. Therefore, from the experience of the surrounding countries, I feel that a law like this is extremely necessary, so it should not be rejected, because of this reasoning and argument that I have stated in the previous presentation, one such legal proposal. Also, I have to point out, environmental experiences are just warning us that at the most recent time, there will be a huge layoff of workers from their jobs, that by some projections of 200 thousand, and by some projections of 300,000 workers, they will lose their jobs, and that these workers should have for a new job and for some gain of wages, for supporting their families, for earning wages, and this is the law that has been made according to that. So because we didn't have a set of tax laws that forced these employers to fire workers, we didn't have any of these laws, in this form. Now, I think it's extremely necessary, and that's why I've talked to a large number of businessmen in the middle that I come from. I received real assurances that the economy of June 1st was on thin ice, that the businessmen were brought into an awkward position, because they would have to, they didn't want to, to reduce the volume of labour, which again indicates that a law like this is necessary. Now I would refer to the government's opinion, and I would not specifically explain the legal provisions of this law, but I would comment on the government's opinion on this bill. I have to say that the argument, that the budget financing of organizations is foreseen, in the type of ministry, is that it represents an improvement of small and medium-sized enterprises in the adoption of appropriate laws, and so on, a very stupid thing. The very allegation that the incentive of small and medium-sized enterprises is being provided with existing legal regulations, leads me to say that we are focusing our people who are in a perspective on the government without a job, and that is now listed here - tax and privatisation, banking system, credit policy and economic policy measures. I ask you, do you see in these allegations of one subject, which can help those people who will be out of a job. I can't see. I therefore believe that the adoption of such a law is extremely necessary, precisely in order to pre-warning a large social inference, which can result in the application of a new set of tax laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7167	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7168	In his first presentation, Mr Jovanovic said he was sorry that Minister Vlahovic was not present to say what he thought about this law. Here, I've had the experience of agreeing with Mr. Jovanovic. And I'm sorry, especially if it's about Mr. Secretary without portfolios, Mr. Secretary without resources and without laws, especially if it's about that minister who was a financial advisor to a Lafarza, who's now selling Belgrade cement, as minister, of course, and without the privatisation law, of course. Especially if it's a minister who never said anything about small and medium-sized enterprises. I am truly sorry that the minister is not here to ask him a few questions and to analyse together why this law is not in the interest of the Serbian government. Together, we come up with data on the destruction of small and medium-sized enterprises in this country, to look together at the benefits of the government's legal projects, in favour of the collapse of small and medium-sized enterprises. Let's see clearly how many small and medium-sized enterprises have closed their gates, how many workers have sent for emergency vacations and how many workers have been fired. Let's see how many team of racketeeres the government has formed and sent every company that's ever done anything to this country, to find something, say these racketeeres, I'm sorry, but we have to find something. So for example, they find that one tax has to be paid because you failed to collect your claims, so they find that the tax has to be paid because you paid the peasants after the final bill for the ransom, so they say the tax has to be paid because you carry the right division, which is not in the government's interest, should be left. They say more stuff, and why is it the government's goal of destroying and stifling private initiative, both small and medium-sized enterprises? Because of the pre-elected strategic partners, abroad and in the country. For years this country has been supported by small and medium-sized enterprises. Giants have collapsed, and small and medium-sized enterprises have filled the state budget. This law, which does not fully protect this category of entrepreneurs, is nevertheless a step forward in the absence of any law. The funds envisioned for its implementation from the budget, mainly for projects and logistics, are almost unnecessary. Given that in the ministries and now a bunch of experts have nothing to do, with everything they've done before, you've now hired your families and strangers, so with much smaller or almost no means, this law could work. This government helps to develop small and medium-sized enterprises in a very strange way, by abolishing them. It helps them by introducing non-constitutional regulations and passing unconstitutional laws. It burdens them with inappropriate procedures, tax rates and contributions. Only, ladies and gentlemen, the union or associations of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are still capable financially and professionally enough to be healthy strategic partners to this government in the upcoming privatisation process and to be able to be some kind of foreign capital competition, but it seems that, as the children would say, there is a rabbit in that bush. Serbia's wealth needs to be sold out, with fees that domestic partners would not offer. That's right, Mr. Ivkovic, absolutely illusory to expect the acceptance of your law, which, to be honest, I have a lot of objections, especially in that part about funding. It is illusory to expect any economic progress, any production other than that of the production and those of the product being made and produced in circles near the chamber. Small and medium-sized enterprises will pay fiscal commitments for almost a billion marks less in real terms than last year's first postwar year, for just one illustration, according to incomplete analyses. Perform a small, flash analysis of only 10 enterprises in Serbia, whether private, or social, which fall within that category of small and medium, you will see absolute disaster. What's never happened after a few months they don't get paid, it happens now. If after a few months they couldn't collect their debts, it's happening now. To keep a few dozen and hundreds of workers out of work, it happens now. That nearly 30,000 private carriers are out of work, that nearly 8,000 to 10,000 employees in the shipping companies are out of work, that is, as far as services are concerned, and in production it is more drastic, worse and more murderous. And the lack of material, the lack of resources and huge interventions are causing an increasing number of unemployed and creating an increasing number of social cases, and therefore it's no wonder that that's the only thing you've planned well in your budget, so you've increased your social-association by five times real. With less separation for social cases, with greater isolation to support small and medium-sized enterprises' programmes, this situation could at least have been tempered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7169	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Veselin Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected the government to prepare a comprehensive company law and that we would have a more complete reform, which will not solve the problems in pieces and will not separate small and medium-sized enterprises, compared to large enterprises or giants, which, by the way, are failing at this time. As a previous question to me, before the proposal was considered to submit such a proposal, it was necessary to wait, above all, for the transformation and privatisation to be carried out, for the selection and categorisation of enterprises, which could be covered and qualified in the categories by structure and method of production, the process of production. However, this draft law also shows that red tape is being carried out. What are you looking at? Forming agencies, forming funds, boards of directors. However, in this particular case, it cannot be seen that a single integrity, one transparency and precision can be seen in the draft law in order to provide funds for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is obvious that this bill faces one major obstacle and if it was adopted, although I doubt that most will adopt it, because many small and medium-sized enterprises have been brought into a very difficult economic situation, because of large taxes that must be allocated to funds, and therefore there will be no room for these companies to develop sufficiently in the desired direction. I've been talking to more businessmen lately, and they complain that they have huge problems with the application of adopted previous laws, which, through taxes and contributions, will burden a lot of companies so much that they won't be able to do businesses, not small or medium-sized, retail businesses. Many of them are preparing moves because they will not be able to meet their obligations to the state and to the funds. I therefore believe that there was a need to reform economic legislation in general, so that we could get one legislative regulation, which in one comprehensive way could regulate our country's economic life. It has been a long time since the new government came, however, in this direction for the help of small and medium-sized enterprises did not do much. That is why I propose to approach the reform of economic legislation. Large systems must also be covered by development and conditions must be created, not for dismissal and not for economic crisis and unemployment, but also for large, small and medium-sized enterprises to come through system-based legislative solutions on the general plan to provide preconditions for the economy to move forward. Without the process of production, we can pass hundreds of laws, none of it. Therefore, if the production process is provided and if the government and the new government succeed in launching the production process, it is possible in this case to improve the position of small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are the primary holder of employment and primary production operators, of course in the fruit and large gigans and large enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7171	The word has a folk MP, Veselin Jankovic, and the next is MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7172	Dear Presidency, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin as some of my colleagues have begun to discuss, considering whether I should report on this subject to discuss. I thought I was invited to talk about this, because I've been a private since 1992, and since all the representatives of the former authorities have discussed this issue and have been extremely committed here to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, so since I've felt on my skin that their contribution seems to me, I've considered it necessary to report and say something about this subject. There is no need to be anything special or smart or to be a great economist, so to conclude that it cannot be talked about developing the economy of this country without talking about the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. What is the importance of the development and existence of small and medium-sized enterprises, and what is the advantage of small and medium-sized enterprises over large socialist giants, as we called them, should not even talk, it is clear to everyone here. But it's not the first time the Socialist Party's been talking about this subject and it's not the first time this topic's been moving. I was an MP for the Democratic Party from 1993 to 1997, then the opposition party, Mirko Marjanovic, then prime minister, taking over government from famous Nikola Sainovic, in his speech at the time, or what was called a modern-day exposé, paid a great deal of attention to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Even his then vice president, the famous Dragan Tomic, from 1993 to 1997, Vranjanski or Simpo, wrote one of these big books on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. But I have to realize, unfortunately, apart from that great theory and the big story, there was nothing in most cases. In fact, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm not telling the truth. The then government or then the SPS derived from the context of Dragan Tomic, a book - Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, a story about the development of so-called family factories, and then prominent officials of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and later prominent officials of JUL through their children, women, sister-in-laws, aunts, registered companies that functioned perfectly because they had prominent Socialist Party of Serbia or the Yugoslav Left in the background. However, there was another variant of it, a little wider, since the Socialist Party of Serbia was created in political ideology and because they thought the party was a mother, then all their members considered their entire family, so thanks to being a member of the SPS or of the JUL, you could have a company that had an extraordinary business, which had the advantage of getting credit, even, sometimes they didn't even call it credits because they didn't come back, and even if they came back insignificant amounts. Or they were in a situation where there was a lot of money in all the jobs, and they took part. If it happens that one of the rest of us, let's just say, broke into some kind of business where he could make a lot of money, you were immediately squeezed out, or you were hit by a racket, that you couldn't do that job anymore. Thus, the Socialist Party has cared and developed in its current rule the concept of small and medium-sized enterprises. I also need to tell you something about how normal small and medium-sized enterprises have formed. People, fearing for their basic existence, and having the idea that they could create more, or by caring for the existence of their family, started some kind of small production usually in their basements or rented garages and basements, working with all their family members, without working time, saving every penny and separating from their mouths, buying and expanding halls and new business spaces, and so perhaps a healthier part of Serbia's small and medium-sized enterprise was created. So when we talk about it today, when I think about how some country was a mother and some stepmom, among the privates at the time we talked -- you know what, we're not asking the state for anything, don't just bother me. But unfortunately, she often bothered and most often those who gave themselves the right to be members of some of the opposition parties at the time, or God forbid, to start helping some of the opposition parties financially. And, ever since then, the system has seriously wronged all these privates. Although I want to be truly well-intentioned, to accept this bill in my best interest, the first thing that occurred to me when I listened to a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia who was here, is that -- simply, you were about ten years late. Who knows, if you suggested that concept ten years ago, who would be the opposition today, and what a position. Although I say I'm well-intentioned, I can't take this proposal any other way but as a good marketing move and no different. If we were to discuss the law itself and the proposals that were made in that law, agencies and funds, somehow that reminds me again of some previous, overcome communist regime, which speaks of agencies, funds, stories. In fact, what do we all need for privates? We need a stable internationally recognised state, and all that goes with it. We need an incentive and a good tax system. We need credit lines, which we don't need agencies and funds for, but we need good banks, we need a government and a state that, if there's no domestic funding, will allow these funds to come from abroad. Therefore, I must say, a fellow from the Socialist Party of Serbia has come out and said by showing this book in which this law, that it is extremely good, is only not adopted because it has an SPS sign. No, I don't. I am not voting for him, not because he has this SPS sign on him, but because I do not seem to agree with that concept and that in practice so far, the former authority for the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs has done nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7173	There is a word from the MP, Mr Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7174	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have before us a bill on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a topic that has taken over all of us on the political scene of Serbia in the last ten years. The mouth of all the parties and the people involved in politics in this Serbia kept talking, as the development of the economy moved, about supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I will talk about this difference and the difference in the concept between the former government and the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Radical Party, and what DOS offered in the pre-election campaign, which is the difference in the concept -- how to support economic development. The current concept and concept that are now being offered to us in this bill is a question and concept of control of economic flows. Our idea is also a clear commitment that the economy does not expect control because it does not deserve it. It is a question of incentives and motivation for development, in line with our commitment to decentralisation and what are European and global flows in economic development, and this is a decentralised collaboration with a clear concept of offering all the best potentials in the local community, because this is the only way to awaken all the motives, all the best values of local community representatives. With one such clear motivation, we must find these solutions, but not by setting up central funds, boards, fund managers, so that some small or medium-sized enterprise from Nis, Novi Sad or Kragujevac, or somewhere else, will come to Belgrade and convince some advice from wise men who will be placed either from that body or someone else, to convince them of the value of investing in their programmes. Our job is to make such a motivation and put these best programs, best ideas on the market and set up mechanisms that will motivate and stimulate these types of programs through the financial market. What's what we had from the concept so far? We had clear evidence that the state was never successful in the distribution of money and in establishing fair criteria for that distribution of money. We had a chance to see the Ministry of Finance report on how the state distributed money from budget funds. The money went largely to fund political parties that were then part of the government. That money went to a lot of other places, but certainly not in the development of the economy, the development of these small and medium-sized enterprises, which we are talking about here today, and we have talked about over the past ten years. What's our job? Our job is to establish, first of all, political stability as a serious government. It's clear that there are problems, but this job is done, the business of opening up the state, opening up these potentials, because we've been through a period of autistic relations both with jobs and with politics, and I think it's a very important prerequisite for opening up space and markets, for our small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for our big systems. The second level is monetary stability, and that, of course, you have all these months. The third level is tax system solutions, which will be unique for all participants in the economic race and match. The fourth is the financial market, because it is necessary to bring in banking capital that will not be speculative, banking capital that will be held for a long time, with real programmes and support for real programmes, and that, of course, is not easy to do, it is the necessary time, steps are needed. It's already done. Here, you have already interested foreign banks, which have lowered interest rates, which were simply not normal, nor have they allowed any logical development, because when you have an interest rate of 6% to 10%, at a monthly level, there is simply no possibility of any serious development. Now, banks that offer interest loans from 2% to 2.5% on the monthly level, which is still not favourable, but there are also good examples of what might be your proposal bearing, with a lack in this concept in this sense, which is that we in Nis have already formed a Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency in the regional Chamber of Commerce, by forming a consortium of banks that has prepared a 12 million-mark fund. We had a plan to keep it at a level of 20 million, but 12 million marks were provided to support the best programs, which would appear in a contest in front of such a consortium. And they're not going to be any body, whether it was called the board of directors, or the director of that fund, or the agency, to distribute that money by liking this programme or that programme, so we're going to throw these programs out on the financial market and the market will best assess what's cost-effective, what's worth funding and what's not. That's the way, that's the difference in concepts. So it's clear that experience from previous years is saying that there is no successful development, unless these activities and that motivation for development are brought down and deepened to the level of cities, the level of municipalities, at regional level, because these people from the locals know best what their potentials are and what they can bring out in their programmes for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I would really ask you not to help people who run small and medium-sized enterprises anymore, because, despite your help in the past 10 years, these people have survived, maintained their businesses, despite your help and unrecorded inflation in 1993, hyperinflation, survived that period, survived all the wars in which they had to think about their lives and their families and their children and to maintain their businesses, along with all the systemic repression you offered them. I really ask you not to worry in such a way, with another proof that your distribution, the state's distribution of money goes exactly the way the Ministry of Finance's report told us, which is that only last year 100 million German marks were directed past the budget's decisions, which was not decided by the Republic Assembly at the time. It's 10,000 credits, potential loans only last year, at about tens of thousands of marks, which you've squandered and didn't direct them to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Now you're advocating their development, now it's you who defend their interests, and I ask you not to defend all those who are willing to participate in the economic game in Serbia in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7175	This was the last reported candidate for discussion in principle. I give my word to Mr. Ivković, as an act promoter (final word). )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7176	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is natural that I have prepared the final word for reason before your vote on the draft law on small and medium-sized enterprises, but it is logical and natural to comment on those things that have been said for this speaker. About the famous report of the Ministry of Finance, which on your proposal had to be withdrawn by an urgent procedure, because he had experienced a debacle in this assembly, but was published, I don't know how and why, in certain papers, as paid by you, I just want to repeat once again a very well known fact - the budgetary inspectors, as they were baptized, and these are mainly the inspectors of the Ministry of Finance and the PDO, the NBJ, have worked on the topic, I believe individually, honestly and honestly, and therefore, in every ministry in which the review was carried out, have written that the report and the persons whose names and last names are listed, means the responsible persons, have the absolute right to submit their observations to that report, any evidence that certain conclusions from this report are not good, because simply, the inspectors of the current authority in the ministries have not given sufficient paper to see that they have been necessary for them to do so. One of the only former ministers, and this is the one who speaks for this speaker, I had the opportunity to see the report and to remove 90% of my doubts, but no previous minister had the opportunity to see that report. Thus, the report was targetedly written, aimed at political dealings with the leading people of the Socialist Party of Serbia. As for the concern of the current majority in Parliament for small and medium-sized enterprises, I just want to show you, my fellow MPs, that by law on corporate income taxes, which you voted for, you abolished the incentive for small and medium-sized enterprises that involved significant reliefs in the three years of the work of these companies. That means - your concern, dear MPs from DOS, about small and medium-sized enterprises, is that the Company Tax Act abolished incentives, three-year tax cuts and burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises. This led you directly to the production companies that had to obtain the re-promatter and which were essentially these incentive reliefs, which were previously in the law, were financially able to start the production cycle. So much for your care and help for small and medium-sized enterprises. As for small and medium-sized enterprises, over the past period only for 317 programmes, 97 companies received two billion and eighty-eight million dinars, on which 21,900 workers were employed, to revitalise industrial capacities. Based on the new programmes, which were implemented in the destroyed factories, 137 new programmes, 10,900 workers were employed, received a billion and 62 million. On other grounds, more funds were received, a total of 80,000 workers received the job. Let me move on to that exhibit that I have prepared to tell you -- firstly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is really before you for the first time since this assembly began to occupy, in January, a comprehensive law and the first real reform law. So far, you've been changing and supplementing existing legal projects, changing individual members, mainly to satisfy the hunger of a large budget for higher tax burdens and excise burdens. Secondly, there are many unemployed in this country. There are more unemployed people in this country. The value of this country, if any, is in the expertise, qualifications of workers, whether they are employed or unemployed. If we have this advantage, that our average worker is far from at a higher level of education, skills, skills, knowledge, then we can take advantage of that advantage if we initiate a designed policy in support of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. If these workers are now allowed by the state to organize themselves, you'll have thousands of pizzerias, thousands of bottles, thousands of nail production and I'm not talking about the rest. So, you're going to have a chaotic development of a business programme that's not going to be on the good side, because of the overcrowded market, for whoever invests capital, or for the state. The state has an interest in designing private capital investments and supporting it with its resources, in the interest of economic development, improving citizens' standards, in the interests of state development. Who else will do so if the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has the right and obligation to see the necessary development of business programmes missing on the Serbian and Yugoslav markets, is not working on those business programmes implemented in life, in practice, employing workers, providing material and social security to workers, providing substitution of import components, import equipment, and even providing support to the foreign market. A special problem is big systems. You already have a three-day strike in Loznica, Viskoza. The Viskoza worked with 60% capacity in September 2000. The Viskoza today, in general, stands. Maybe Viskoza, as such, shouldn't be in that range, but what about these workers? These workers need a chance to work, they need to help these workers to develop their knowledge, their skills, with the support of the state to develop business programs where they are technologically professional and where the development of these programmes will enable them to substitute imports and to have conukturnal products that can easily be placed on the domestic and foreign markets. I've listened to almost all the discussions in this room. I must say, in remarks, except for the story of the Cardel hand written by law, I've heard nothing else. If the Cardelian hand that exists is the fund, I must ask those who have read the Privatisation Bill, so my dear gentlemen, you will see that in the Privatisation Act, that new child, reformist and transparent, there is also an action fund, and also the Government of the Republic of Serbia chooses the Management Board and the Government of the Republic of Serbia chooses the Director. Then why are you rebelling against one of the funds provided for in this bill that has the sole task of preventing hyenas from commercial banks from scaling up people who want to invest their private capital? This fund, designed in this law, is designed as a competition for commercial banks that go with vulture interest of 2.5%, 3% and 4% per month. The fund is tasked with helping those who want to invest in private capital, with lower interest rates per month. What is the newspaper of this law? This law, through an annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, essentially requires the government, as the executive body of this assembly, to come up with support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. What is integral to everyone who has spoken here is the fact that it is uncontestable for this country to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The government's annual programme, above all, must define the direction of development and priority types of work. So, it is the Government that through its resort ministries must look at which production processes, which these products are missing in the range of products on the Yugoslav market, which these production processes, using domestic resources, home smartness, domestic energy, can liven up and guarantee material and social security and guarantee the employment of the unemployed. A special aspect is unemployed in the country. The interest of this country is that the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country creates a chance for youth and women to have a motive to stay alive and work in the country. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the village creates a chance for banks to approach the village, the municipality to approach the village, finally, to develop the village in the fields of culture, sport and essentially to arrange such demography in our country. The infrastructure development programme and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises at the republican level is precisely that decentralisation. No one here said that centralization was given by law. That's not true. This law advocates decentralisation, centralised knowledge to every city, every municipality. Are we going to let each of us practice with foreign investors, when it's a very complex area of negotiation with foreign investors? The Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises has 14 key tasks to be taxed. From these 14 key tasks of the agency it is clear that it is the agency that has to work on the range of domestic knowledge and our economy that connects our economy and our knowledge, because our knowledge is much cheaper. By buying foreign technology, you buy spare parts, you buy years of maintenance, basically, you throw foreign equity. The Fund for Loans and Guarantees of Small and Medium Enterprises of the Republic of Serbia has an essential task, I repeat, to be a competition for commercial banks. This fund with cheap capital just provides what you, by removing incentives for small businesses, a three-year stand-by arrangement, created it to be the one that will give small businesses cheap capital to start and stimulate them to hire others. In the end,... (Leila Ruzdić, from the place: Come on, the end. Not yet. Where's Raka Radovic? Raka Radovic was an extraordinary gentleman. Finally, my dear gentlemen, when it was not known that the signator of this law would be the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, on 17 January 2001 in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, a recommendation was given. So, counselling recommendations -- small business and economic policy in 2001. The key recommendation of these participants is to consider the necessary adoption of laws to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and private enterprises, which should: define the status and categories of small and medium-sized enterprises, define a short and long-term economic policy, form a projection of the construction of the necessary institutional infrastructure. So, on January 17th 2001, the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia, all present in general, supported the solutions given by the Law on Support for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. You may be interested in who were present who gave this support - Mr. Radoslav Veselinović, president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Prof. Dr. Dragana Djuric, adviser to the SRJ President, Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, then the economic adviser of the government of Serbia, Dr. Edita Kastratovic, Director-General of the Institute of Small and Medium Enterprises, and not to mention all of you known colleagues from DOS colleagues. That's it. That's it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7177	I'm finishing the initial search. We only had 47 debaters. I put the draft law on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 46, against 134, one abstained, not voting 8, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the bill, in principle. Since the draft law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which was submitted by MP Branislav Ivkovic, is not accepted in principle and according to Article 133(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I find the procedure to be suspended. We move on to the 23rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a SECURITATION OF A COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7178	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I wish that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I would like to make sure that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I suggest that before the debate on this point begins, we declare that the discussion should be reduced to five minutes, given that we still have enough work to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7179	Not to discuss the proposal, but if you have another proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7180	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is an extremely important project, which is about the care and protection of children. Suggesting five minutes, maybe we can show what our relationship is to them. I suggest we stay 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7181	Is that a new proposal or another debate? A new proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the discussion be cut short for a minute. My explanation is this: the former government has clearly shown how it protects minors. She must have locked up thousands of minors, beaten up prisons, and there's no need for them to strangle us with how we're gonna protect minors. I suggest that the discussion be held for one minute. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7183	A new proposal, Mr. Nikolic, to put an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7184	Since I'm a secret to you, I suggest that the debate lasts eight minutes. For example, it takes time for a lady who has proposed to have a brief discussion here, to first show how she treated her children during the opposition, while the children who were entrusted with her care and education were performed in street resistance T-shirts, fighting for their political goals. Here, from such call politicians, who are able to use children for their purposes, they should be protected, even with one law. [[Applause]] I suggest eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7185	We just need to see, since I have to formally put all these proposals to a vote, to see how. I'm sure it's in order, if you need everything. Let's just see if we need everything. It's not in the Rules of Procedure. Since it is not in the Rules of Procedure, and we are authorized to deal with these situations all together, we will, of course, put every proposal to a vote. Whoever gets the most votes, we'll think he's got the greatest support of the MPs. (Leila Ruzdić, from the place: Who gets most, gets one. ) First I put the first proposal to the vote, and this is the proposal relating to a 5-minute reduction in the discussion. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 18, against 59, abstentions 7, did not vote 6, a total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Does anyone think this isn't procedurally correct? (No). Thank you. You have received a bill submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic, Zoran D. Nikolic and Branko Ruzic. You have received amendments submitted by MP Srdja Popovic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Committee on Youth and Sports, which propose to the National Assembly not to accept the bill, in principle. You also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Legislative Committee, which, as a result of the reasons contained in that opinion, did not accept the bill. I'm opening a principled search. Here you are, the proposal's representative. Mr Branko Ruzic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7186	Dear President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by submitting this bill on the protection of minors, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group was led by a general social need to regulate the protection of minors more comprehensively in the legislative area. Our current criminal legislation for minors is part of existing laws that apply to minors. It is based on the achievements of different scientific disciplines, based on relevant UN documents, which speak of human rights, especially children and as such, are at the level of the legislation of developed countries. However, such a split legislation for a minor, as part of a law that regulates the position of adult persons in criminal law, and regardless of all their specificities, falls within the standard law. We believe that this is precisely why it is extremely important to pass laws, which will treat the protection of the rights of minors. This legislative proposal is the result of the extensive joint work of three ministries in the former government of the Republic of Serbia and this: the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as well as the expert team of the Foundation for the Combating Drugs, Alcoholism and the functioning of religious sects - FONAS. The very project of preparing this law has run in two directions. First of all, an expert team of the Institute of Comparative Law has been hired to provide legal solutions in the area of protection of the rights of minors in the countries of Europe which have the most advanced in this sphere, namely France, Belgium, Spain and England. The second direction is to analyse the situation in the young population, in primary and secondary schools, as well as in working with parents. A large number of young people have been engaged in this business of analysis of the situation, so it can be said that this bill, which has been finalized by FONAS experts, is the result of very extensive research activities, both in the analysis of legislative solutions in other countries and in researching the current state and negative effects of drug abuse, alcoholism and the functioning of religious sects for the young population. We believe that this legislative project cannot be a solution to all problems, and therefore, in parallel to the possible application of this law, it is an extremely important work with young people, their parents and educators to raise awareness of the negative sides and the effects of the disease of addiction and the functioning of religious sects. It is also very important to activate unsustainable youth energy in the comprehensive psychophysical development of young people through engagement in amateur sports societies, in cultural and artistic societies and in the plan to expand knowledge in areas important to life. As socialists, we believe that society has first and foremost the obligation to give young people the opportunity to design their free time and need and must give them wide-ranging opportunities. The aim of this law is primarily to create conditions in a legislative area that enables the state to act more effectively in order to stop growth, and later reduce the rate of drug abuse, alcoholism and the functioning of sects in the areas of our country. As part of this problem, it is not possible to ignore the fact that, in the past period, difficult living conditions, a decline in living standards and a reduced ability for the state to act in the social and educational sphere have, among other things, been largely caused by pressures and sanctions of the work of the international community. In particular, NATO's aggression against our country in 1999 produced, the final operation of drug dealers in these areas, and the aggression in the functioning of religious sects has also been strengthened, and thus has been devastatingly affected by the patriarchal environment, typical of our spaces. Before moving to the concrete provisions of this legislative proposal, I would like to point out for the public that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group in promoting this bill, more than two months ago, has invited all relevant experts, organisations and political parties to contribute to their constructive proposals an even better issue of this legislative proposal. We believe that this issue is a question of general social interest, that it does not deserve to be politicised, and it really does not matter who is the head of the law itself, but it is important to reach a consensus on this issue, because this issue is not about any political party, but about all parents, young people, educators, a question of national interest. As far as the provisions of this law are concerned, I would like to say some of the most important for the citizens of Serbia, and I would like to point out that these provisions are the result, above all, of consulting with parents, besides consulting psychologists, educators and other professionals. The bill itself defines the law in its basic provisions, namely the law governing the protection of minors because of the endangerment of their physical, mental, social and spiritual health and development. The right of minors to psychophysical health provided by this law makes it a right to protect against the use of cigarettes and other tobacco products, to use alcohol, to use gambling, to use entertainment machines, to use intoxicating drugs and drugs in non-therapeutic use with psychoactive influence on minors, products with pornographic content, to stay in places where the physical safety of minors, to sell, to give or offer weapons of spraying matter or poisons and toxic substances can occur. It is also the influence of individuals, groups or organizations that harm the psychophysical health of minors through their actions. As regards protective provisions, prohibitions and restrictions on certain behaviours and actions of minors, as well as other persons with regard to minors, have been arranged. Thus, Article 3 says that a minor is not allowed to use cigarettes or other tobacco products, alcoholic beverages or other beverages containing alcohol and intoxicating drugs, or medicines in non-therapeutic use, with a psychoactive effect on minors. Article 5 states - the person known or found not to be allowed to sell, give or offer cigarettes, other tobacco products, alcoholic beverages or other beverages containing alcohol and intoxicating drugs or medicines in non-therapeutic use with psychoactive influence on minors. Article 6 - the person known or found to be a minor is not allowed to sell, give or offer weapons of spraying matter, poison and toxic substances. Article 7. - the person known to be or found not to be a minor is not allowed to sell, rent, give or offer products with pornographic content ( Magazines, Video Cassettes, etc.).). No exposure shall be allowed at the visible place of the product referred to in Article 1(1). Article 10. - a legal or natural person involved in the activities of which a violation of this law can be committed, it is necessary to highlight in a visible place the provisions of this law relating to the protection of minors in the performance of their activities. Article 12, due to the alleged repressive character of the provision, said that -- public places are not allowed without the escort of a minor until 16 years of age, in the time from 00 to 05 hours, except concerts, events and similar events, which are intended for minors according to their programme and content. This clearly shows that there is no repressive approach directed towards minors because it is cases where the responsibility of the legal or natural person in charge of the organisation can be clearly located. Also, Article 15 prohibits those types of religious learning or its application, which endangers and damages physical, spiritual, and social health and the development of minors. Religious learning or its application under Article 1 requires the propagation of religious intolerance, religious and national hatred, exclusiveness, violation of the interests of public and personal security, public order, health and morals, the role of family and the protection of other people's rights and freedoms. Article 16 - it is forbidden to operate pseudo-religious, pseudo-healing and pseudo-phylosophy sects that, through mental manipulation of young people, create psychic or physical dependence on these persons, in order to exploit them. Article 17 introduces a new institution, so - to protect minors from endangering their psychophysical health and development, the National Youth Protection Council is educated. The National Youth Protection Council: (a) grants approvals, i.e. prohibiting the presentation of public film, television, theatre and video-photographic achievements, exhibitions and magazines, individual age categories of minors, (b) monitoring the application of this law and others, rules protecting psychophysical health and the development of minors, (c) proposing measures to improve the protection of psychophysical health and the development of minors, (d) achieving co-operation with NGOs and other domestic and international organisations in this area. Article 18. The National Youth Protection Council is educated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the composition, organisation, conditions and other issues of importance for the work of the council. The penal provisions of this law provide for sanctions against the perpetrators of violations under this law, with the obligation to impose safeguards on the jurors, so as to punish between 50,000 and 200,000 dinars for a legal person, and between 1,000 and 10,000 dinars for a natural person and a responsible person in a legal person, i.e. from 10,000 to 100,000 dinars for an entrepreneur, are punishable offences defined by this law. The position of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and the Socialist Party of Serbia's lawyers is that the law defines violations and that criminal acts are therefore being conducted against the perpetrators and that crimes related to this problem are united and regulated by a new criminal law which hopefully will be more complex and comprehensive than the previous one. Also, at the end of this first presentation, I would like to make another argument in favour of the adoption of this law on the protection of minors, proposed by the Socialist Party of Serbia, which is precisely this report by the UNICEF office in Belgrade, on the state of children, i.e. minors in the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Among other things, on pages 30 and 31 of this report, data suggest that the population between 11 and 15 years of age in Belgrade and its surroundings, and in percentage of 23.3% of the regular use of cigarettes, also half of this population tasted alcohol, 20% of them were intoxicated at least once. In the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, 5% of this population from 11 to 15 years of age consumed marijuana, and over the past years, young people from 14 years of age were young at first consumption. 1.5% of that same population tried to blow glue, 1% tried hashish, and 0.2% tried cocaine. These are data from the UNICEF office's annual report in Belgrade. Also, in favour of the adoption of this law, data on the increase in the rate of juvenile criminality in relation to jurisprudence in the adult population are also available. We believe that the adoption of this law would give the state, but at the same time both parents and educational workers the right, the obligation and the possibility to act legally in the direction of stopping growth, and later reducing the negative effects of drug abuse, alcoholism and aggressive religious sects. Of course, parallel to the well-intentioned application of this law requires continuous education, which together would lead to the creation of conditions for the preservation of the psychophysical health of the young population in Serbia, which is the basis for building a better future of our country, as well as a pillar of the preservation of our people's tradition. Finally, I sincerely hope that you will take a meaningful and well-intentioned look at the function of this law at the moment of our society and on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I urge you to contribute even more to the better content of this legislative proposal with your constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7187	Is the Committee's rapporteur answering for word? The word has the president of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has been considering the draft of this law and has not accepted it as it is. I'm glad we've limited time to be more efficient at work, so I'll just tell you why we didn't accept it. This repressive law, none of us, who are members of the Committee, have ever seen or heard of exist or read. In addition to the first three members of this bill, which are members of the general law, from Article 4 and beyond, the minor is not allowed, in Article 4, so that I do not quote it, my predecessor quoted almost all the members. In Article 5. - A minor is not allowed, so Article 6, 7, 8. - a minor is not allowed, and so until Article 18. That was reason enough for the Committee not to accept such a law. Gentlemen, I can try to explain to him how to work with young people, but the repression sure as hell can't. And that almost all this matter is already contained in our laws and regulations, you can see for yourself if you read and have insight into the laws that exist in our country. The previous Government has also taken care of minors, Article 2 says that this law protects minors from the use of cigarettes and other tobacco products, which is probably why cigarettes could not be imported, to be in kiosks or shops, but only to you known channels and to you well-known people on the black market and cigarettes. The next attitude protects minors from alcohol use - well, manufacturers and did not produce alcohol, but rather produced some artificial alcoholic beverages from which the citizens of this country died. You know that's what happened. The minors should be protected from the use of intoxicating drugs, etc., but as it says here, and that's why the drugs were in the banks' safes, so the minors couldn't get to that drug. I'm just going to tell you that you need to protect minors from products with pornographic content. All this time before was pornography.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7189	The word has Mr. Ivkovic, first exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7190	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am extremely pleased that our distinguished fellow MP has shown in his greatness the quality of the chairman of the Committee on Labour and Children. I think the children could learn from him how it takes an esteemed older gentleman to speak to the public and speak. For truth's sake, and that's why I answered, Your Honor, I'll read what you didn't want to read. Article 4 says - no cigarettes or other tobacco products, alcoholic beverages or other alcoholic beverages containing alcohol are allowed to be used in the public places of the minor. Article 5 is said - not to sell, give or offer cigarettes or other tobacco products to a minor. Article 6 is said to be not allowed to sell, give or offer weapons, Mr. President of the Committee, which you should take care of children. Article 7 is said - not to sell, rent, give or offer products with pornographic content. Any parent who hears what I'm saying right now certainly supports such things and many legal projects are not told what is not allowed, but here anyone who works against children and can work both in a pub and in a traffic lot, anywhere, has to advertise, this law requires him to be forbidden to sell it to children, which is not to be sold. For the sake of truth, Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Children, childcare, there are 12 criminal provisions in this law, not for children, but for the environment in which minors live and work, and for minors there are no criminal measures. There are only three educational measures and nothing more. By the time I checked in, you refused the support law for small and medium-sized enterprises. I also want to warn you at the beginning of the law on the protection of minors if you refuse, will be published in all newspapers in Serbia and writing - citizens of Serbia, read the legal projects that have refused DOS-ovski...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7191	Don't throw away. How any speaker gets that from a neighboring group. Let's get some order in here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7192	Mr. Chairman, if you only knew what kind of atmosphere I gave the final word on small and medium-sized enterprises, it needed strength. So, they'll know, the legal projects will be published, both of them. Please, on behalf of the promoter, I'm spending my five minutes, since the esteemed colleague cut the story of the children from ten to five minutes, specifically tell me what's wrong with this bill. But for the record, it wasn't done by accident. The late Minister Simonovic, then Minister of Education, and later Kata Lazovic, me as Minister of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Sports and Youth, formed a truly quality team of people who are only experts. They're not concerned politically. Get your politics out of this story. The Institute of Comparative Law has been working on a comparative analysis of legal projects in the following countries - Spain, France, Belgium and Germany, which are most affected by the sects. You may not know, but the Trojan horse of America on the ground of Europe is sects. Especially the Scientological Church. That is why the French parliament defined the concept of mental manipulation in April 1999. We will refer this notion of mental manipulation to Minister Batic, as Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government, because our lawyers also think that he is right to believe that in the law of guilt everything must be fully resolved. That's why we didn't use it here. There's only a breaking story here, given in this legal project. If you adopt this bill, the minister of justice will leave proposals specifically related to mental manipulation. Do you know that 827 NGOs live on Serbian soil? Behind these 827 NGOs is 180 sects, 90% developed over the last two years. Do you know that in Germany there are certain sects, which are estimated to be so destructive, even forbidden to work, which is a drastic measure, but it's forbidden because they act destructively. Thus, the Institute for Comparative Law has done a comparative analysis of legal projects in ten European countries. Experts who were not politically defined worked on the story. There's a legal project here and what you think is wrong, point out. Forget about the last ten years. Think of the future of this country. For the sake of time, since this legislative project cannot be very resented, it is most applied to a member talking about the restriction on the movement of minors up to 16 years. Please, there's an amendment. No problem if it's accepted, but this is where it was thought from midnight to 5:00 in the morning. When it comes to concerts, events, when the organizer of these concerts and who is responsible for the safety of young people, there is no limit. But if that's not the case, then only an old man can get out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7193	Are any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. Excuse me, replica. Mr. Nikolic, I haven't seen a replica application.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since January 23rd, most speakers have been used in half-truths since this pay phone, as well as in exchange for thesis. Mr. Ivkovic read the text very carefully to the seventh member. So he forgot to read the eighth term. I won't read it either. You have received the bill and you see that this eighth member contains the first three previous members who refer to those who act on young people, but in the eighth, all these young people are covered. It is also true that care should be taken about the movement of minors, and if they were very successful in taking care of young people, they were not all legitimateized by the truth, when they banned gatherings, when the beatings beat up young people, whether they were 16, 17 or 20 years old. In order not to get back into the situation of banning unwanted consequences, we don't think this law should be accepted except in that part that speaks of the functioning of religious sects. Well, young socialists have initiated this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7195	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, judging by the current course of the debate and by the fact that the parliamentary majority was ready to cut short for a minute only that the president allowed it, it is obvious that you will not accept this bill today, possibly tomorrow. Of course,.... I heard it, I know who's throwing it, don't think at all, I just can't look at it, I'll dream of it tonight, so I won't be able to sleep. And he shouldn't have come out for this pay phone to scare our kids. What do I think? Why do you refuse? There are more reasons. They are mostly contained in Article 2 of this proposal. First of all, you've made it quite clear to us here, and so do the younger representatives of your MP group and older, that your goal is to be a part of Europe, of Europe, of archaism, of someone, of one or another, and when you want to be a part of Europe, then you can no longer fight any drug abuse or pornography or anti-natural fornication, or of using molecules, or sexual abuse, then you can't fight any more juvenile crime, because this Europe that you're looking for and strive to provide enough evidence that it's not only failed to fight, but it's come up with it. From the most developed Western lands, this monster has gone and caught finally and one piece, fortunately, for the time being, a small part of our children. The children of Serbia. And here I mean Serbian children, children of all other members of different groups living in Serbia. How can you fight it? How can you fight Europe not to poison our children when you can't fight Europe without stealing our territories? How to fight this Europe when she expects our children to be consummated by all these poisons, all those vices that we should all fight here. And if the government had submitted such a bill, I wouldn't have the nerve to speak against it, I wouldn't have the cheek to in any way endanger the adoption of a law that helps parents who are unable to maintain their family by being healthy both parents and children. And here I think of everything, not only what is provided for by the bill but also a lot more of what our children are exposed to, and where there is not enough good, no clear protection, no family, no state to worry about. How now to protect minors from the use of cigarettes and other tobacco products, when the Serbian cigarette king, on his private plane, drives the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia on official visits to other countries. How can we protect ourselves, when the man you simply set up with automatic rifles as head of customs is one of the biggest importers of cigarettes, and now we're laughing at ads across Serbian cities saying "Greetings from Rovinj - Ronhill". I've got some boxes of that poison here. I don't want to show them, so you don't think I'm advertising. Far away. In my house, cigarettes, except when guests come, they're not burned. I know how to judge how to fight this evil. I passed it on to my children, but you have to think about it in a completely different way. I think many of you are hostages of people who among our children, among our young people, are sitting and spreading this evil. Half the cafes in Belgrade were closed the other day, maybe they're not even open yet. Reason - selling cigarettes without excise stamps. What are cigarettes with excise stamps - and imported by this Zabunovic, who was so good that he immediately became head of customs in the first few days. We were promised that you would stand in the way of smuggling tobacco, i.e., that there would be an enormous increase in revenues when it cleared up with the tobacco mafia. Where's your income? How are you going to protect minors from the use of alcohol now, knowingly by customs, when you've spent imported alcohol on a level from which it's no longer worth buying a domestic product, domestic alcohol? Now our kids are breaking whiskey, our kids are drinking drinks, you can't even feel the kid drinking, because they're pouring coke in his cafes, or some other refreshing drink, and only when that kid finds out he can't stand on his feet, sees how much he's drunk, because he's a 16-year-old kid. Only you laugh, no more Lapovo, no more Batocina, no more Racha Kragujevaca are small cities for such poison, which is spreading among our children. How are you going to protect minors from pornographic films, so some of you took part in those films. The tapes are spinning, in which some of you are the main heroes. How are you going to protect minors from places where they might be threatened by the physical safety of minors? They would never participate in your demonstrations again, you would never be able to strike when you lose power. So that you can protect our children from sects, when the honorary president of one party, who is in power, belongs to Mun's sect, is openly praised. Of course, you haven't even heard of that cult. The Rotarians were coming out today for this pay phone. Everything is now in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There's a lot of laughter in front of serious subjects, and the most common excuse for not participating in serious topics is -- where were you ten years ago, where were you five, two, one year ago? Is that an excuse not to do anything? Of course, I also have objections to the legislator of this law. You know, you can't say now -- it's allowed for kids to go after 0,00 hours in the city, if they were at some event that's organized, at a concert, or whatever it looks like. And now every cop is going to check if that kid was at the show or was at the bar. There are some loose ends, of course, in this bill. You could still talk about that. After all, I allow this law to be merely a basis for a serious debate in the National Assembly, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia could also launch with one of its serious draft laws, which we would not laugh at from the opposition, because you are looking at who proposed the law and by which you define your position - will you seriously discuss that you are laughing. So, when you are mentioned in Kosovo and Metohija, you are able to laugh, protect minors, you are able to laugh, anything from the opposition MPs mentioning you can form a basis for laughter. You took the state into your own hands and now it's your fault if the drugs are being dealt in front of the schools, now it's your fault if the kids use it, if the school classrooms, the halls and the NewCers smell like kids who don't use it openly say they can't get into those rooms anymore. Some of you know very well what it looks like. It would be good if those who have bought it now courageously come out for this pay phone and tell the kids - don't use it, everyone who offers it to you for the first time, it's the enemy and your soul, not just your body. It would be good if you could get the strength to discuss serious things here, in this congregation, you're seriously talking, not to look at which word or thought comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7197	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7198	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a lot of this is truly incredible said in the opening appearances of the representatives, both the Proposer and the opposition that supports this law, which in itself is logical, because the law itself is amazing, not because of the subject it deals with, but because of the way it works. As this assembly debate began, it seems to me that we made the first mistake when we did not adopt Mr. Risticevic's proposal and limit the debate to one minute, because, given everything that has been said so far, Bill Clinton will be guilty of the collection of folk songs "Red Ban", Bill Clinton being guilty of brandy, Bill Clinton being guilty of Herzegovic tobacco, Bill Clinton being guilty of the Jara Ribnikar sect, Bill Clinton being guilty of half a ton of drugs in a safe of a Belgrade-based bank, which was stored there by the Serbian police, and so on. I think the subject is serious, but the way she's treated is catastrophic. There's no difference between the cause and the consequences. The sanctions can't solve a problem that doesn't recognise political barriers, you can't deal with sanctions with those who only have the street left as a place to hang out or spend their lives. Why is it so - we can talk, but it seems to me that the explanation, which stands out in the proposed law, is more than problematic. In this explanation, it is said that the result of such a situation in society, a situation in which people under the age of 18 have emerged primarily from the bombing of the NATO Pact, which was the introduction to the expansion of drug abuse and drug trafficking in Serbia. It is in itself politically colored, that it is unnecessary to comment on such a thing. The problems that shake Serbia are problems that shake other countries, whether they are east or west of us, and as a rule, these are problems that shake much more countries that are in transition, than those regulated societies, which are so criticised in the opposition's performances, and, as a rule, are unargumented, because in these societies they are far more precise and more concretely solved those legal assumptions that they are trying to resolve in one bad way by the proposed law. In fact, he was right to represent the Committee on Labour and Social Policy when he quoted members of this law. They speak only what is illegal and forbidden from member to member, which is contrary to common sense. Because is it necessary to say that you are not allowed to offer weapons to minors? Where has this been allowed to offer weapons to minors so far? Is it necessary to say that it is illegal to offer drugs to minors, because where has it been allowed so far? It was not allowed in Serbia either. Do you have to say - you're not allowed to drink minors, so that's what's happened so far. Common sense bound us to something like that. And if that's what happened, it means there was a little common sense. All the problems treated by this law are the consequences of a very difficult situation in society. These consequences are long lasting. They are at least the result of political connotations of parties in power or opposition, they talk about the state of society. It's a bad situation, it's hopeless. Parents can't take care of themselves, let alone their families. The regulation that exists in society has been destroyed, the system of values has been destroyed. Pornography was never allowed in Serbia, but pornography was inaugurated into a universal model of value, through a station that had a national frequency, which was only recognizable by two programmes - by pornographic, and by the Serbian Radical Waves programme It's facts, naked, but true facts. [[Applause]] If you're going to talk about one new age that we want to live in, then the dawn of that time is October 5th when we both ended up. Accusing someone of cigarette smuggling, alcohol smuggling, drug trafficking, no evidence is a felony. This is not allowed in any decent country. (President: Time. I'm asking you to take advantage of... A congregation speaker must not be a place where such a thing will seem. We can talk today about whether they were removed, at least minimally, those causes that resulted in such a chaotic situation in society. I'm responsibly saying they are. Are they completely removed? No, and it'll take a long time to do something like that. In this country, children are no longer arrested for wearing shirts with an emblem or badge. In this country, children don't fight over protesting on the street. Finally, in this country, children are no longer protesting the way they did for the past 10 years, seeking their elemental rights. Their parents are no longer in the position they've been in so far. It's hard for them, but the time ahead is a time of quality perspective. Why is that? Because in power, to the extent possible, given the country we live in, normal people find themselves. People who have the courage to say and when they're opposition and when they're government -- don't beat the kids for tearing up the poster, don't accuse young people of treason, nepatriotism, don't represent them as drug addicts, don't represent them as people who are unconscious of the time they live in, because, as a rule, these people are the most conscious circumstances in which there are and the injustices they face. If you want to see if society is going in the right direction or the wrong direction, watch young people and what they do. Today young people are watching, looking at Serbia and watching us. Mere, to what extent we're capable of doing what the previous government hasn't done in 10 years. I wish she'd stood. On the contrary, she was just ruining our society. This law is unacceptable, for it is a law that itself is only a logical consequence of a time when young people were not allowed to live normal lives. If you smoke - you'll be arrested, if you drink - you'll be arrested, if you do drugs - you'll be arrested, if you're on the street after midnight - you'll be arrested or eventually your parents will pay a fine of 10,000.00 dinars. In this country lives 20% of young people under the age of 18 who regularly smoke, many of them drink, some of them consume narcotics. It's not a way to solve such a problem. This problem must be addressed by our society, by establishing a clear system of values. A system of values that will know what the consequences of the policies being conducted are, a policy that itself cannot and must not have a party framework.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7199	Mr. Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7200	It's nice to applaud it, only a man should have his own behavior to deserve a round of applause. Here's the predecessor by replacing the thesis tried a world truth and the fact that he blurted in front of our public. They don't become our kids junkies don't give in to alcohol because they've got the only street left, because they don't have a job, their parents don't have a job and they don't have time for it. If that were the only reason, you in the Netherlands wouldn't have a drug problem, you wouldn't have a drug in England, there wouldn't be any in Germany. But we're going to this Europe where the syringes right here, on the spot, share the children so they don't at least use the infected syringes. Who doesn't know? He shouldn't talk about it. Of course, you're smart, but I first heard about a political party that cares about morale, when I saw pictures from the Democratic Party's strip party. That's how you cared about the morale of our youth when you took your clothes off at the strip parties you had at your youth club. It was probably an incentive for all our children to turn to it. God forbid if the predecessor before me was naked or this little guy throwing it at me. There was nothing to be seen when they took their clothes off. Next, I hear some television has become famous for airing porn. I've never seen them before. The predecessor seems to know very well when porn is broadcast. This is a society where everyone has a certain responsibility. It's not worth running to the door. It's not worth asking for instructions. This is where the most basic problems this society has are solved. Think about what you did while you were in the opposition. Now with that attitude, you need to introduce yourself as serious people who can run the country. It's going really hard. So when criticizing a bill, point to what is wrong with it. It doesn't matter who the Proposer is, it doesn't matter why you don't like the Proposer, it only matters what's wrong in one bill. And to say that you don't have to fight drug abuse just because it's suggested by individuals from the former government, it also acts inhumanely and immorally. Once again, you can applaud any representative who comes out here because you think he's smart. I'm telling you, if we don't protect the children, in this, every government will have the support of every smart and reasonable man, unless we protect at least children, obviously we can't save you anymore, but at least children from the bad influence of Europe, then you really want Serbia as a state, that Serbia, that no longer exists. We're very different from them. The centuries will pass until we degrade our nation so much that we are at their level.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7201	The word has the chairman of the Health and Family Committee, Mrs. Zivodarka Dacin, and then Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7202	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I really do have one sincere wish, which is to transfer to the work of this Parliament at least part of the work that the Committee on Health and Family had. I must say that a very correct and constructive debate has been held on the proposal for this law and that everyone has aphided on the issue of juvenile delinquency in various forms. It has been said that the Committee on Health, in principle, rejected this law in principle, but I really did not want to understand that it was only because the proposing opposition group, but with some arguments, such as - that one part of that issue has already been introduced into existing laws, such as the Law on Social Care for Children, the Health Insurance Act, etc. The fact is that no law has made all of this one place. There were even remarks that maybe it wasn't legally defined in the best way and that it should be given as a proposal to the government to find a way to make a law like this, because it's a law that exists everywhere in the world, so why shouldn't it exist with us? I would like to say that even a positive remark has been made, which is that this law should have been given to the Educational Committee, because the fact that even in elementary school, it means up to 15 years of age, we have, even in small areas, very widespread drug use, so that even we have small dealers, apparently confirmed, that the minister can also confirm, in primary schools. I'd like to say that no one should understand that this is someone's party program. Indeed, I think we all in this room absolutely agree with the fact that the problem of young people's lives is because of their lives yesterday, but also because of our lives today. That we all aim to get our young ones back on track while it's time. When it begins during adolescence, all medics know that the outcome is very uncertain. Once again, I'd like to say, if you've read this law well, that it's primarily that this law is nowhere and does not punish minors by anything, but rather adults. Like it or not, we have to admit that it's the adults who make an ugly life for young people. Since the parliamentary group submitted the law on March 23rd, not really wanting to accept that it would be rejected in principle because of the Socialist Party of Serbia as a proposing, one positive hope has given me information that was in the media since 12 April. It said that the expert team of the Movement for Democratic Serbia has made a programme, but more related to the field of sport, but why not, what the MPs of this party who belong to the DOS coalition will pass on to the assembly procedure and what will be discussed. He is even a certain promoter of this activity, which is our famous Yugoslav football representative Dusan Savic, who says that we want to combat alcoholism, drug abuse and the influence of religious sects on our children. Well, why not in this and every other way, because in a healthy body is a healthy spirit. I would really ask that we lead another serious debate to the desired goal in one way or another, just protect our young ones, because without them, there is no future for us either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7203	Thank you. The word has the minister of social affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7204	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would say that there is no individual dilemma among everyone here that we should be better and more complete to protect children and minors. I don't think we're arguing about it at all. I'm not going to talk about the good side of this proposal, because we turned it down as a government. Let me not be resented by the promoters for not talking about the good side, but I will try to explain why we did not consider this law as being set up acceptable. I will try to call on Mr Nikolic to explain better why we did not accept this legislative proposal in this form. He said something that I think should be important to all of us and what's important to us all, means that we should support the family, be healthy in it both family and children. What can arise here in a slow, different opinion, which is a way of supporting the family, to be healthy and family and children, that is, what we consider to be a concept, and that is, this very term - supporting the family, is more about formulating measures that will really mean supporting the family. At the very least, then, this law, or legal proposal, is incomplete in this regard. What we really think is crucial, which is to strengthen all those services in society, which actually work with family and children. This involves much greater work with children who have been raised, with a family in crisis, with a family who has problems in functioning, much greater work on parental education, on education of children, on education of educators, because if we look at what I consider to be the subject of this concept, it is that most of these laws or regulations are already regulated in individual laws. So there's a punishment, and you can't, for example, issue a license to carry a weapon. So it's already been prevented through the law. There's one number or as far as I'm concerned, a number of provisions, which already sanction perhaps otherwise, this kind of behavior. These provisions have existed for 7-8 years, as which, and they obviously have not yielded sufficient results. So, for me, the basic question is whether we should sort of put all these provisions together in one place, maybe further specify them. Or we really need to try a concept, another way to deal with this problem, because it's obviously a big problem, a problem that's grown up and has reached a really scary dimension. Finally, as I understand it, there are also technical reasons why such a legal proposal could not be adopted, because it would have to comply with all these other laws. I'd just say what are the laws, which regulate, or sanction most of these provisions. These are the Law on Public Order and Peace, the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, the Law on Games on Happiness, the Law on Citizens' Gathering, the Law on Violences, the Criminal Law and so on. And finally, if there were no such conceptal difference, it should be said that certain members of this law are not fully defined, so that they should be worked on. So what involves participation in manifestations of a commercially propaganda character, and we assume now that we here can say more precisely what that means. This should also be regulated by law if it should produce certain legal sanctions. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7205	Thank you. The word has a representative of the Serbian Radicals parliamentary group, a third report.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law that lies before us is a kind of back of specialis, because in a special way it regulates and determines a particular area of social life, which is in a certain way and to a significant extent regulated by other laws. That's the problem we've already talked about, talking about a number of other legal projects, where there's so-called secondary legislation that creates huge problems for us to look at and consider certain substances, especially those that concern such significant areas of social life as this law. In that sense, I would rather understand and understand this law as one need to show the wish of the MPs to discuss one of the key problems in our country, something that represents, I would say, a burning problem for this people, for this country and something that we would have to solve in the most urgent period. Namely, there are even a little contradictory solutions in this law, there are some solutions that are mildly speaking too harsh for an old man, for example, if another time he sends his underage child from, say, 16 to 17 years old to buy newspapers and cigarettes, and another time that punishment is imposed, he'll go to jail for 30 days, and you'll agree that it's a little too much. I believe that there were some norms and certain provisions that deserved repair, but in any case, it seems to me that a kind of debate and discussion on what today represents one of the vital problems of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is something that is significant. It's significant, first of all, because of what we paid the slightest attention to, which is the work of pseudo-religious, pseudo-healing and pseudo-phylosophy sects, which are primarily some kind of manipulation of young people, and I'd like to talk about that from the aspect that has already been said here and something we could hear about last night in certain media because it's been said that this came from America. That's right. This evil comes from the United States, but we have something else that we haven't told the citizens of Serbia and other people's MPs from this pay phone, the European Union has requested a different attitude towards religious sects, you know that we had this problem, and the minister of faith from the Serbian Radical Party in the previous period has submitted a draft law on religious sects, where all those who would participate in such manipulation, particularly young people, and others are very strongly sanctioned. However, the European Union is looking for something very different, something else, it is looking for an absolute favored attitude towards religious sects, because they call it in a completely wrong way, religious tolerance. That's what we need to tell people here and say that the parliamentary majority, as long as it listens and as long as there's tutoring and mentoring of the European Union, is such a law against religious sects and this, it's best settled in this law, so it won't be passed, even if this was both a specific law and in a special way regulated it. Furthermore, as far as human abuse is concerned, of course, there are many other laws besides the Criminal Law and the Law of Games that regulate this matter, but one of the key is something we're going to talk about here today. It's abuse of minors for political purposes, which this law does not contain as a norm. There's already been a lot of talk here. It has been said that youth gatherings have not been allowed before, we have never been, none of the radicals have been in the MUP to know this, but we know today that the ministry is arresting minors aged 16 and 17 and the adult faces of members of the Serbian Radical Party when beautiful stickers - DOS is the worst. So much for the freedom that's developed, so much for what's so much better today than what used to be. Especially about who's normal and who's insane. I don't think it would be appropriate for it to appear to its political opponents, as some of them have done. Next, as far as the TV station mentioned here is concerned, it's Palm TV. I know a few shows that were very watched and very patriotic content, but they're gone on that television. They were political... No, ma'am, I didn't follow that pornographic content, I don't know what time it was, and if you know, come out, so let us know, and I only know what time these shows were, and these are shows -- "The Questions and Answers" Olivera Miletovic, "Compromis" Mark Jankovic and some more political shows... (President: Time. I knew Mr. Martian had arrived as soon as someone warned me. So, they were taken off that television and that's why, that's the key reason why that television was in the way, not because it had or didn't have the content that the lady was talking about earlier, which I don't even know about, to be honest with you. So I would say that it would be very important to engage in a serious debate, especially on key issues, on drug abuse and on the issues of influence and on the functioning of religious sects and on what seems to me to be eating away our national tissue, and I think that's why this law is a good opportunity, to talk about it wider. That's why I'm sorry you cut this discussion short for five minutes, or we'll get a minute longer, but in any case, I think this topic deserves much more time, much more engagement of the MPs, and it seems to me that real systemic changes are needed, which in an uncomparably different and in an uncomparably better way to solve the problems of young people and to their satisfaction, but also to the satisfaction of the entire social community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7207	The word has a folk MP Boris Karaicicic, followed by Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7208	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I will tell you this, but not as an MP, but as a young man who thinks that this topic has been spoken many times by people who have the least right to talk about it. As a young man, because I don't think this is a matter of politics, and I don't trust you when you say that you have proposed this law because you care about young people, but I do believe that it is a hypocrisis and the worst possible form of hypocrisis. Besides, I think this bill is bad and it's because of those things my predecessors said, but also some things I would mention and add. So, first of all, when we talk about alcoholism, drugs and sects, we can't make a legal proposal to deal with a group of people, we should also consider older people, and women with children, and disabled, because it turns out that they are protected, that they are not subject to it. The state can't solve such a problem just by making the law, adopting and -- turkey dots don't apply. It's a thing that the state has done or hasn't done for years, decades, struggles, not by using it for its own purposes, primarily political purposes. So when you talk about it, you didn't answer how the whole society, not just young people who are the most vulnerable, but it's not just them, from you first, that we're going to protect them from you because you, when you talk about sects, are you who have all forms of sects. You are a group that deceives, which has created a party summit that uses its membership to exploit them, uses them in every way possible, primarily financially, and you would be based on that law, forbidden, primarily by you. Drugs, please, you've been making a geriatric society for years, a society of old people, you're afraid of young people, energy, new ideas, you've driven them out of the country. The city I come from, which is Uzice, has just become the city of those young people who haven't seen the perspective or Belgrade, so some studies, or abroad, or stay in town and alcohol, so drugs and who knows what. That's what you're responsible for. And not only Užice, but all the other cities in this Serbia. This law, Mr. Ivkovic, cannot undo the effects of your authority in these 10 and over years, it cannot, however hard you try and dress beautiful suits and make-up and bathe. He can't, he really can't. Then, I didn't mean to talk about this in this place, but I really do. I had Mr. Ivkovic when your president came to power for 13 years. So I've spent more than half my life under your authority. I've had the strength, the luck to fight you, as much as I've had the time and especially in the last five years. A lot of people didn't. You sent a lot of people underground.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7209	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7210	Please, I'm talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7211	This topic was resolved on 22 December.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7212	So there were a lot of victims, Mr. Ivkovic, so you could talk so easily about young people. I'm really not a lawyer for these people, but you can't talk to me about protecting minors all these years. That really sounds hypocritical. So this society of old men that you made and that was torn down on October 5th had its own controversies, very dangerous. They're alcohol, drugs and religious sects. I expect this country, through its criminal laws, that the Ministry of Faith, through its legal proposal, to deal with not only these matters, but also Pink Television, but also some Zorks, psychics, and that the police can prosecute them, not on application, but... (Latin saying) by duty, and none of you have thought about it. Just write the law, present it, DOS refuses, and we in the paper to brag about it. It's not that easy, Mr. Ivkovic. I believe the Ministry is thinking about it this way, giving the police greater authority and really solving this problem in the root. No one can take care of law and order except the police. Then, Mr. Ivkovic, I drew myself three things that are about politics. First, to participate with others in your leader's absence and to be exactly where he is right now. Another thing, to change this nadal system that you created, first of all a system of values and relationships, which some of my predecessors have spoken of, but the third thing I've given myself since October 5th, that I don't forget any of the things you've done for 10 or more years. I guarantee you that although there is a weakness in DOS, although there are disagreements, failures and failures resulting from not bad intentions, but other things, circumstances that are objective, I guarantee you that none of the things you've done, nor the shooting of the Prince Michael as long as it's been counter-mitting, nor the hanging of children for feet in Vladic's Han while they've had the manifestations of the Resistance, nor those many of the dead and the victims you've made, I will never forget you again, in a year, for five years, to remind you of that, just because I'm glad to see, how right now you swallow these dumplings with a very great intensity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7213	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7214	The noodles are swallowing someone who doesn't believe it's worth it, and I have to tell you that I am and how I proved to myself that I can do the job that I'm doing. We had the opportunity, especially the viewers who are monitoring this direct transmission, to hear the exposure of a young man, to hear the excellent applause of Deputy Mr. Raka Radovic and to understand and understand what kind of society it would be if indeed the DOS majority had mastered the entire system of government. Otherwise, I'm already saying this is a police state, but the speaker before me assured me that that state would be a super police state. You know, you don't have to underestimate youth or age. If nothing else, age carries calmness, carries proportions, carries reflection on steps, and on words to be spoken. Youth, charged with energy, a desire to prove, sometimes by inadequate education, carries a direct accusation of someone with whom you are completely immeasurable to the results of past work and life experience. As for the Law on the Protection of Juveniles, I would like to repeat, ladies and gentlemen, this law has not been done by one man. The law was launched by three men, youth and sports minister, minister of education and minister of science and technology. There were a lot of very written people, because smart people know that not all knowledge is in them and that it should be hired by those who can form it as a whole. A very large group of young enthusiasts within FONAS have been doing research on young people's opinions. They visited over 50 elementary schools and over 20 Belgrade high schools. They saw the scene of drug dealers working in primary and secondary schools. They found out who gave all this business space for 22 sects, which are working in a central Belgrade municipality. They found out how these extreme sects work, used in their rituals and drugs, but used such a destruction of the psychophysical structure of a man, that the father brought his child into the cult, and the apartment he lives in was given to that same cult. This youth that has worked and brought data has helped experts prepare the draft of this law. Mr. Zoran Nikolic, who is a lawyer, all of what the distinguished minister said will deny and she will understand, that she will taxively count that it does not stand, but I will repeat, as speakers deal with personal manifestations and propaganda. So, ladies and gentlemen, in this law, there are no sanctions for minors. There are sanctions for those who offer alcohol, drugs, weapons, pornographic content, for those who recruit children, there are sanctions for them, but for minors there are no sanctions. Whoever tells you about this phone booth is lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7215	Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The word has the minister of justice, Mr Batic, followed by MP Zoran Radovanovic. (Serb Radical Party emissaries leave the hall. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7216	I see the draft law on the protection of minors as an expression that bites the conscience of the promoter. He's guilty of being responsible for the moral, spiritual, and mental sunbathing of minors years ago, because if that's not the case, and if that's not the expression that bites his conscience, then it's something that's personal to a thorny rose. It's like some people slept through a decade or more of it, and then they showed up, so now they're going to edit this area that's really serious, delicate, but it's not worth acting like Alice in a wonderland. That time has passed, because gentlemen you must remember the fact that at the time of your government hundreds of thousands of minors, hundreds of thousands of children were eager for the most elementary things, hamburgers, chocolates, ice cream, so the most elemental things. During that time, your leader's children enjoyed well-being. Your leader's son built a fun park, while other people's children died in Kosovo. Whenever you mention kids, remember that. So you've destroyed hopes, ideals, perspectives of entire generations. For generations, most of their lives have been spent up to the age of your government. I've met them all over the world with grief in my heart. They ran away from your care of them, from your protection while they were minors. And, with grief in their hearts, they stay in the white world on some distant meridians. So, seriously, this is a subject. But it's not worth dealing with. You should be dealing with the causes. Education is necessary. It's necessary to create conditions so this doesn't happen. Because, gentlemen, who is responsible for the sale of cigarettes in Serbia on every corner? Who was the monopoliest of cigarettes in Serbia? (louds - son) Here, you say it yourself. Who allowed the liquor to be poured? Who allowed the place to work until some time of night or by morning? It's not the opposition. It's not DOS. By the way, the one who exercised power. Whoever maimed at every corner of the casino, the slot machines. Well, it's not the opposition. It was you who exercised power. How you raised young people and cared for young people. Who's to blame for porn? There's no need for anyone to act crazy around here. Everyone knows that one of the television stations with the highest frequency in the country broadcast pornographic movies every night. Every night. You allowed it. Because you were in power. Who's to blame for getting tons of guns into the country? The one who exercises power. Who's to blame for spreading religious sects across Serbia? You, as proposings. Who's to blame for listening to psychics, wizards, white mags every night from all over the world. They're getting word you're gonna win. But in the fifth millennium. Who's to blame for the drugs? Who distributed alcohol, drugs, cigarettes? You and the people close to you. That's true. It's a reality. So now the hypocrisis is to show good care for young generations, care for minors. That's really the point. And, every authority, every responsible opposition should deal with it, but not by replacing thesis. So, you really need to pass one codified law, because I have to tell you, as my distinguished colleague said, there is a Law on Social Care for Children, the Law on Arms and Ammunition, the Law on Games of Happiness, the Law on Public Order and Peace, the Law on Violation, and if you would accept this proposal, there is a need for the previous amendments to all these laws. So we're going into a maze. Not to mention the other legal shortcomings in this proposal. It is necessary to create a different environment, for which it is naturally responsible and the government, and I hope that the Democratic opposition of Serbia on this plan will be part of its responsibility, on the plan of education, on the plan of family affirmation, on the plan of returning some of the traditional values, on the plan to prevent all these Halls that have reached us, but with the authority of the proposings, because- how did you care about minors when millions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy account were transferred to the expense of the Socialist Party of Serbia? How did you take care of minors when you declared the state secret body of children found in a freezer near Tekia in Vienna? Is that what you care about kids? So, the problem is with the promoter. The problem is, you're not a competent proponent for this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7217	The word has been given by the People's MP Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7218	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, respected members of the government, because tonight is not the time for history, but a bill on the protection of minors, submitted by my colleagues from the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr Ruzic, Ivkovic and Nikolic, I will talk about it. First of all, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 28. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed special protection by minors who are not cared for as well as those who are unable to care for themselves and protect their rights and interests, as well as in Article 72(1). 2, 4 and 6 which are prescribed that the Republic of Serbia provides and regulates the achievement and protection of human and citizen freedoms and rights as well as a system in the field of social care for children. This law, above all, regulates the protection of minors, primarily from endangering their physical, social, spiritual and social development. By this law, we socialists, above all, give the right, I repeat - we give the right to protect against the use of cigarettes and other tobacco products, alcohol use, gambling use, entertainment machine, intoxicating drugs and medicines outside of therapeutic use, with psychoactive influence on minors, products with pornographic content. This is where magazines and video tapes are thought of, staying in places where there can be a threat to the physical safety of minors. Then, selling, giving and supplying weapons, spraying substances or poisons and other toxic substances. A special segment of these rights is the impact of individuals, groups or organisations that harm the psychophysical health of minors through their actions. In view of the fact that a minor is considered to be a person under the age of 18, and his guardian is either a parent or a legal guardian of a minor, there is a wide range of what this law offers and that is why we consider this law to be extremely good. The preventative has its place in everything and through that people's "Better to prevent than heal", even the famous French criminologist Manuel Lopez said - when a child steals a bike then he should take care of the child, of the child, and not of the bike. Research results suggest that the rapid increase in juvenile crime in our society and that there are more and more minors who commit crimes. Since matter is related to juvenile delinquency segmentally regulated by a larger number of laws, we believe that the adoption of such a law will help to introduce order into an important segment of society. Economic sanctions, the fall of standards, the wars in the environment and ultimately, the war in our country, the more accurate bombing of our country, were primarily good conditions, that is, a good basis for developing everything we have seen so far only in low-cost films and for all of this to come into our neighborhood, or into our homes. The more frequent news headlines - every third student in elementary or high school tried drugs. A student killed a student. A minor NN and a minor NN committed robbery. A minor NN raped a friend. A sad confession by a minor NN, believe me, it's not funny, absolutely not funny, the sad confession of a juvenile NN taken by a cult, or perhaps the most terrifying thing for all those in this hall who have daughters or sisters, the title - a minor escaped from a public house. They were almost all over the paper. So, you have no reason to laugh. In order to avoid all of this, good social climate must be made first of all, legal regulations must be provided to help these young people. This law also prevents the negative functioning of religious sects that young people and older ones are trying to draw from the established frameworks of faith from these areas primarily the majority Orthodox, then Catholic and Muslim sects into some other frames, to the side of crime. Although on several occasions, when we adopted or listened to the exposés of the Prime Minister, I pointed out that in France in neighborhoods where the rate of crime increased by 60% by making sports centres, you have abolished the law of the Ministry of Sports. The good side of this law is that it does not need financial resources for it, and therefore a legendaryly bad package of tax laws, Minister Djelic, will not compromise. And finally, I think this law will help young people to focus on what is positive in life, on learning, on sports, to be good people, good workers, who will work in our small and medium-sized enterprises, who will be good doctors tomorrow, as my colleague said the other day, Serbian doctors are the best in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-21-0.u7219	We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that 120 MPs are present today's session, according to official record. I ask you to determine if we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, so I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum, so I'm setting a break by 10.45 hours.
