ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14854	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14856	President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, please give notice to all MPs who have violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges them to be identified by means of the use of e-voting cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14857	What procedure? To determine what? Then it can only go like this, not procedurally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14858	Mr. President, I remind you this isn't a precedent. I will ask you to apply this time the same procedure that has been applied in situations where representatives of some other parliamentary groups have refused to identify themselves using an electronic voting card. It is, therefore, an obligation for each MP to insert an identification card into a unit designed for such an entry into the Serbian Assembly. You are required to respect the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to impose sanctions on those who were in the Hall and who did not respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14859	Mr. Ambassador, you should know the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly. The President shall give notice in the event of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you cannot suggest what I will do, but you may only point out that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I am also teaching you that you can again and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to arrange your performance for the speaker. Mr. Nikolic picked up the phone. So you have a chance to fix your exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14860	Mr. President, I'm happy to fix my exposure. That's not a problem for me, especially given the agenda point, which is ahead of us. So, I would ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure and to the Assembly to declare whether a point of the Rules of Procedure which obliges MPs to use the identification card has been injured, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and a member consult the Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14861	I'm putting you to a vote, it's already been arranged, so I'm right to put you in line for the Rules of Procedure. What member? (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: This is your job. I can't hear. He's bound to say which member. You don't know which member? Then I can't put it to a vote. You are required to point out which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14862	I made a point of breaking the Rules of Procedure. Do you refuse to put to the vote before the Assembly whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured and refuse to consult the secretary in the way you have done so so far? If you refuse, I'll tell you which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14863	Mr. MP, in Article 97. The Rules of Procedure stand. "The president, or representative of the parliamentary group, is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion has been violated, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, with what can be said" etc. Let's do it then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14864	Mr. President, with special satisfaction, and given that I will now be able to point out those manipulations that I could not indicate when you organised a press conference and showed a mounted video, Article 82 paragraph 3: "The quorum is determined by the application of an electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is required to identify himself when entering the hall by entering the identification card into the MP's unit."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14865	It's already, from the third try, the way it's supposed to be. Now that is in line with the Rules of Procedure, I now put to the vote Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's objection that there has been an injury to the Rules of Procedure. 82. I ask the People's Messengers to declare it. For 113, against 67, abstention 4 did not vote 51, a total of 235 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please. Today, we have a motion for a discharge from the president of the National Assembly. So it's not me, it's the man who's the president of the National Assembly. Please let us at least make this session so that we can keep as much as possible what is left of Parliament. I am putting to the vote the proposal of a group of 112 MPs of the DOS parliamentary group to put on the agenda of this session a proposal for the resolution of the president of the National Assembly of Serbia, Dragan Marsicanin, as well as the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please make this clear by voting. For 127, against 75, a abstentioned one, was not voted 33, a total of 236 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since this proposal has been accepted and before putting the second part of the proposal to the same applicants is put to the vote - that, on the basis of Article 88. Rules of Procedure, make changes in order of the agenda points and immediately open a search on this agenda point, I remind you that Article 88(4) The Rules of Procedure provide that the National Assembly may, without delay, make changes in order to the agenda points, with the consent of the promoters of the relevant acts. As the proposal does not make it clear whether the applicant wants this point to be considered after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is under discussion, or whether that point is interrupted and immediately moved to consider their proposal, please the proposing representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, to make a statement. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14866	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the position of Article 2 88 is clear. It says that new items are entered in the agenda on the basis of a proposal to supplement the agenda, a proposal to merge the debate and an emergency procedure proposal, are included in the agenda in the order of the proposal, unless the applicant has proposed a second order of consideration, which I am doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14867	If I understand correctly, it is a proposal to end the debate on the labour law and to open a debate on these points. The word is Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14868	I understand the proposal's wish to supplement the agenda and to change the order of certain points, but there are two circumstances why it cannot be done in this way: it is the first to discuss a very important law, and the debate on these points of the agenda that you propose will take a few days; if you have already hired some unions to call us to stop reform, don't jump into your mouth now; that's one thing; the second thing - Article 88 paragraph 3 says, "The National Assembly can in the course of the session, without a search, make changes in the order of the agenda." But he doesn't say anywhere that he can end the debate on one agenda and start a discussion on the other point of the agenda. We as a Parliament can decide that after the draft labour law, we can discuss the points that you put in by emergency procedure. It is impossible to put the second item of the agenda in the debate on one item of the agenda. That doesn't allow this Rules of Procedure. Only if you want to arbitration mostly in the National Assembly, but then you don't need a vote on the president's shift. He can sit on the presidency seat of Natasa Micic and say, "I have 126 MPs behind me and from now on I am taking the meetings of the National Assembly." Don't point us to card abuses and count under abuse what we do when we enter the O.R., put the cards in the O.R., then take them out. There are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure; and there is no misuse of stealing the voice of a man who flew the universe without using conventional means of transport.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14869	The promoter asked for the 11th item of the agenda to be suspended. This is in accordance with Article 88(4), which states that the National Assembly may, during the sitting without a search, amend the order of the agenda points with the agreement of the promoters of the relevant acts. I'm asking MP dean mihailov, as a proposal for the 12th agenda... (In the meantime, Cedomir Jovanovic is looking for a word). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14870	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Rule 159. The Rules of Procedure, which we adopted jointly, paragraph 3 says: "In the course of the National Assembly session, an extremely urgent procedure may be put on the agenda a proposal for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of office, on a reasoned proposal from the authorised promoter." I submitted that proposal to you during yesterday. This Rules of Procedure have many members, but Article 88(2) makes it very clear that a second order of consideration can be proposed, on which the National Assembly, not individual MPs, is declared without a search. So, we are not bound by the position of the promoter, we are bound by the view of the congregation. Please respect the Rules of Procedure in the way we have done so far. I don't see that this decision of ours will be changed, nor that it will preserve your position in that way. Apply Article 88(2) and allow the Assembly to declare itself by voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14871	Unfortunately, as before, I can't apply what it doesn't say. I have to apply what it says. I'll read the entire article 88, and, of course, the National Assembly will declare itself, there's no rush, nor will we delay the opening of the search. We just have to work a little bit on the Rules of Procedure. So Article 88 says, "The National Assembly decides in particular on any proposal to amend and supplement the proposed agenda." That's when the agenda is determined, so you're going to change and supplement the agenda. "The new items entered into the agenda on the basis of a proposal to supplement the agenda (meaning complementing the agenda), a proposal to merge the debate and a proposal for an emergency procedure, are included in the agenda in the order of the proposal, unless the proposer has proposed a second order of consideration, on which the National Assembly declares itself without a search." This is the part relating to the establishment of the agenda with additions, changes, etc. "This agenda in general is decided by the National Assembly without a search." So, the agenda has been established. We did it the other day, a month and a half ago. "The National Assembly can during the session", which is the case "without a search", which we decided "to make changes in order of the agenda points, with the agreement of the proposings of the relevant acts". That's really what it says, and I don't see it causing any further complications, so I'm going to ask the act promoter, they're going to come out, and then the Assembly is going to make the most of the decision they want. But to be clear, according to the Rules of Procedure, the proposings of the next points must ask whether they agree with the amendments in the agenda, and then the National Assembly can vote what it pleases. So I ask the Proposer according to point 11. - the government's representative: does he agree... (Glasses - yes. How do you know? Well, you're not a representative of the government. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14872	On behalf of the promoter - the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14873	Please, on item 12 of the agenda - People's MP Dejan Michael: does it agree with the amendments to the agenda? No, I don't. ) On the 13th item of the agenda - rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration: it is not available. After the 14th agenda - Dejana Mihajlova, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - Democratic Party of Serbia? No, I don't. ) Now, since all the proponents of the acts under the remaining indiscriminate points of the agenda of this session are not in agreement with the proposed change in the agenda, I realise that the proposal of a group of 112 MPs of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, which we have accepted to put on the agenda of this session, will be considered after considering the agenda points that we set out at the beginning of this session, i.e. as the 15th item of the agenda of this session. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic, go ahead. He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14874	Article 88(2) - I ask that the Assembly be declared without any further scrutiny of the different order of consideration of the agenda points, i.e. the interruption of the debate which took place until this moment and the extraordinary putting into the procedure of the proposed agenda of this initiative that has been forwarded to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14875	We're having the same problem again, just like at the beginning. You must point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure in that article, say which member of the Rules of Procedure it is. You must seek to determine the breach of the Rules of Procedure in that article.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14876	Mr. Martian, it is not disputed that we have not understood each other at all lately, so I will repeat this once again: I ask that, in accordance with Article 88(2), the Assembly without a search be heard about the initiative and, at the same time, finds that you have injured the Rules of Procedure in its conclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14877	First, it can't, this second can, it can determine that there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it can be determined that there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what I've been reading, why not, it can, it can. He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14878	Mr. President, your penitent behavior, I would say, is not binding on me in any way. I am only bound by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You don't even have the right to allow the parliamentary majority in this assembly, just because it is your status in the Assembly, to step down the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You've been acting the same way you've been acting for the past year. Whenever you need the congregation’s majority, you leave it to the congregation’s majority to step directly on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and even now, when it comes to you. There is no vote on this, it cannot, without the consent of other proposings, change the established agenda, order of the points. He can't. Then you don't need a Rules of Procedure, then write down -- the session will run as most of you in the National Assembly. Article 88(4) indicates that the prior consent of the promoter of other acts is mandatory. Well, for the Declaration on Kosovo and Metohija, you have scheduled us a new session; although by emergency procedure, on a proposal from the Government, it is on the agenda, yet you have scheduled a new session. We didn't interrupt some meaningless agenda points, because that's not what the Rules of Procedure allowed. I ask you to leave the National Assembly President with dignity, protecting the Rules of Procedure, not yourself. It is your duty until the last hour, because this is what you are showing Natashi Micic what to do. And if she hasn't learned enough from you in the past year, she'll learn today. You have to defend the Rules of Procedure at all costs, and the Rules of Procedure say there is no today, without the consent of the act promoters, changes in the agenda, in order of the agenda points. There are changes to the agenda, but only after the points that the act promoters disagreed with. And please, Mr. President, there is no vote on this, even if you now interrupt the session, so let the cowboy session of the National Assembly be convened.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14879	You would be absolutely right if the Rules of Procedure had not been provided that I was obliged to put to the vote the objection of the MP that there had been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, it allows abuses, allows terror for the majority, but it is, simply so, and I will go much more dignifiedly under such circumstances than under different circumstances. So, the answer, and then the vote to comment on breaking the Rules of Procedure. To read again, Article 88 requires me to do what I have done, which is that the National Assembly may, during the session, without a search, make a change in the order of the agenda points, with the agreement of the promoters of the relevant acts. The agreement is gone, Mr Jovanovic pointed out that I broke the Rules of Procedure by reading this article, so let's put it to a vote. You've explained to me, to the MPs, too, no replicas, no debates, and I'm putting forward a proposal... He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14880	I will warn you, Mr. Martian, that you are correctly quoting members of the Rules of Procedure, which regulates our work. The position of Article 2 88 speaks of new proposals for the agenda during the debate, while Article 4 discusses the rotation of agenda points, which is a big difference. The rotation needs agreement, and the new agenda should not be agreed upon, but a statement of the Assembly should be made. You've confronted two members of 88 with each other, and I really don't know what you're trying to do. You can't put those two attitudes together, because they're completely opposite and they don't deal with the same problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14881	He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14882	In order to avoid confusion, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to interpret Article 88(2) to which Mr Jovanovic is called. Here is what it says: "The new points entered into the agenda on the basis of a proposal to supplement the agenda, a proposal for a merger of the debate or an emergency procedure shall be included in the agenda in the order of the proposal, unless the applicant has proposed a second order of consideration". Please, what the Assembly decides about, it doesn't matter for this, and here's why it doesn't matter -- we have new points, proposed options by three basics, and this time it's proposed on this basis, based on an emergency procedure, but this order that we're talking about, that's the order of just those points, not the agenda. Interpret, please, they are included in the agenda in order of the proposal, so if there are several proposals for supplementing the agenda, they are included in the agenda in their order, in order of how they arrived here, unless the person who proposed did not ask that item to be the first of the additions, because all the agendas are regulated in Article 88(4). The agenda has been established, a new emergency proposal has arrived. The promoter may request that it be a post on the agenda immediately, but it must get the consent of those whose points are included in the agenda. Well, by yelling, you can scream anything, but you can't scare the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it's written once and for all. President, you're hurting the Rules of Procedure more than once this year. You spoke to a People's MP who has no right, if he reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you simply said, non-chalantly -- no violations of the Rules of Procedure, you ruled on it, and you didn't even put it to the vote. This time you're putting something to the vote that's obviously not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I will no longer report to the Rules of Procedure, but the debate on voting, the resolution of the president of the National Assembly, can only be at the end of the established agenda, obviously.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14883	I always put it to a vote when the MP wasn't happy and asked for a vote. I'm putting on the vote to object that there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 88. For 129, against 72, there were no abstentions, no 37, a total of 238 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has determined that there has been an injury to Article 88. Rules of Procedure. I find that this is what the National Assembly has declared to be a violation of Article 88. Rules of Procedure adopted by the Proposer to break the current agenda point - Labour Act and move on to a new point. So we interrupt the 11th point work. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal FOR THE SECURIT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA AND THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE National COMMUNITY OF SERBIA
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14884	I can't lead, you have to give someone the authority to run the session. Since this item of the agenda has been merged, and since I am a candidate for Parliament's president, I am authorising Rodoljub Sabic to hold a session on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14885	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14886	Mr. Vice President, please comply with Article 81. The Rules of Procedure propose to Parliament that we make a decision on the basis of which the debate on this item of the agenda would take place until the end, so, given the delay in our work and the lack of quorum during yesterday's work, we are not using the scheduled break from 14 to 15 hours, but to end the debate on the proposed agenda by voting on the resolution of Mr. Marsican and then by voting on the election of Natasha Micic as Parliament president.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14887	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14888	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the SPS (Mr Sabic, you have the bell) will not vote during this item of the agenda, they will only participate in the debate. However, I would like to point out Article 31(3). The Rules of Procedure, which says: "If the president of the National Assembly has suspended his term before the time he was elected (Dragane, you have not found a good point for me), the office of the National Assembly president, until the election of the new president, shall be held by the oldest vice president of the National Assembly. "As the debate on resolution is under way, we propose that the oldest vice president lead the session at this point in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14889	Here you go, Mr. Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please don't do this today. Natasa Micic is the deputy president of the National Assembly, under my authority. It is natural that, as a candidate for the National Assembly, it would not be appropriate for her to take the lead in this session. I can't lead this point -- by the Rules of Procedure and by logic, the old one, too, by some conscience. Therefore, let us pass that, regardless of what is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure and that it cannot be authorized by Mr. Sabic, we will continue to lead this session, and that we still have in mind that this is not about a simple resolution, but rather about resolving someone who is headed by an institution that is the Supreme Authority of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14891	I suppose it's clear that your observation applies only to any future situation. So now we're doing what we've done. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14892	On the basis of Article 31(2), which is well mentioned here, but not well explained, you, Mr. Sabic, can lead this session, but only if you are the oldest vice president of the National Assembly. Namely, at this point in the agenda, at the same time, you choose a new president. You have a debate about a candidate for National Assembly President. At the same time, we will discuss what the Martian did not do well, but we must also talk about a proposal for the National Assembly president. On that basis, the session must be led by the oldest vice president of the National Assembly. If it's Mr. Shabic, everything's fine. But if it's someone else, let him take that place.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14893	Mr. Nikolic, if I have to answer, what is quite certain is that the term of office of Parliament of Dragan Marsicanin has not ceased. Since he did not stop, the question opened by Mr Ivkovic and which you are opening is not yet on the agenda. He can chair anyone. The term of office has not stopped. That question opens when his term of office ceases. If you're not satisfied, I can put you to a vote. Here you go, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14894	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, we have a bit of an illogical matter. I don't know if, when we vote automatically by one vote, we're going to vote for the appointment of a new president, because now it's one point of the agenda; how we're going to run the debate, what we're going to do; and it's a bit strange, quite unusual in parliamentary practice, to tie up resolution and appointment at one point in the agenda. Okay, the parliamentary majority can do anything. Someone here has already said that anything is possible in Serbia, so this is possible. It's possible to vote as it was voted. But, well, we won't talk about it. What's important to us in this situation, is whether two different debates can be held on one point. If this is possible, if the Assembly decides that it is possible to discuss two completely different things within one item of the agenda, then it is again possible and is again unique to our Parliament alone. Someone's saying it's adopted; of course it's adopted, and we're not surprised at that again. What I'd like to suggest, since we already have two points connected at one point and since we can't conduct two discussions, that we should extend the time for the debate in principle, if anything, for 10 hours. Since we are having two debates at one point, since we are having discussions on a very important institution - a resolution of Parliament President and a proposal for a choice of office; from which the elected person, if the president of the Republic of Serbia resigns, carries out the duties of the President of the Republic of Serbia; we are talking about one responsible job, one responsible institution. I therefore propose that, if nothing else, double, that we have time to talk about this resolution, and also about the appointment of a new MP, that we show in this Parliament that, although anything is possible, there is at least some minimum tolerance, respect for this institution and this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14895	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14896	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to make a preliminary statement about the initiative I have proposed, which came from the rights defined in Article 81. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic Assembly. So, I ask that the Parliament vote on the debate on this agenda point without interruptions scheduled for an hour's break, so until a vote is held, which is very clearly proposed in the initiative, and only then can we plead on the proposal of a fellow from the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14897	It's his own understanding, Mr. Jovanovic. We'll put both proposals to a vote, in the order they're proposed. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) So, the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, put forward a proposal to conduct today's debate without the Rules of Procedure, so we should work without a break until the end. I'm putting that proposal to a vote. For 128, against 65, the abstentions, did not vote 41, a total of 234 MPs. I find that Mr Jovanovic's proposal was adopted to work without a break and work until the debate is over. Mr. Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group, has tabled a proposal to double the Rules of Procedure's proposed time of debate, so the debate instead of five, takes 10 hours. I'm putting that proposal to a vote. For 66, against 116, the abstentions were not voted 52, a total of 234 MPs. I find Mr. Dejan Michael's proposal not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Pelevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14898	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest we separate the vote on the resolution of the President of the National Assembly and the appointment of the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14899	So, Mr. Pelevic's proposal is, of course, involved, but I think it's also too high, since we'll certainly vote separately. If you insist on voting on Mr Pelevic's proposal, I will put the proposal to a vote, but in itself it is understood. So, I will put Mr Pelevic's proposal to vote separately on the resolution and separately on the election of the new speaker. I'm putting a motion to vote. For 131 against 41, the abstentions were not voted 57, a total of 229 MPs. So we will vote separately on the motion for resolution. Please, Mr. Wolfie, don't comment. You're throwing me out of my place and instead of giving you a warning, please don't throw me away. I won't give you a warning. You have no right. Mr. Nikolic can do it, and if he's looking, he'll get it. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: You decide nonsense. ) Before we approach the search, I will remind you of the time available for representatives of individual groups. So, since we have established that we will work for five hours, the DOS parliamentary group has two hours, seven minutes and 12 seconds; DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, Democratic Party of Serbia 54 minutes; the Socialist Party of Serbia 44 minutes and 24 seconds; the Serbian Radical Party 27 minutes and 36 seconds; the Party of Serbian Unity 16 minutes and 48 seconds; DOS - New Serbia nine minutes and 36 seconds; DOS - The League of Social Democrats Vojvodina, the League for the Shumadium eight minutes and 24 seconds; DOS - the Reformists of Vojvodina and Sandzak Democratic Party seven minutes and 12 seconds. And of course, the MPs who are not members of the MPs, three MPs who apply first, every five minutes. I'm opening a search on this agenda point. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: Injuring the Rules of Procedure, how can someone register when there is no form? ( b) Why would it be a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Does the President of the Assembly or the Chairman give you a form? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Secretary of Parliament. Mr. Nikolic, I assume you've got the form. Does the proposal's representative want to explain the proposal? Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14900	Mr. Vice-President, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us, by emergency procedure, a debate on the initiative to resolve the President of the Republic of Parliament, Mr. Dragan Marcicin I, at the same time, on the appointment of the new president of Serbia, Mrs. Natasa Micic. The democratic opposition to Serbia, in the opinion of us who launched this initiative, has won the mandate of Serbian citizens, a mandate that is seriously challenged by the latest political developments within the winning coalition. We wanted to change Serbia today. We are not prepared to rule these societies by respecting political manners, dominant in the previous decade, which is marked by chaos and misfortune. We, as the parliamentary majority in this House, have proposed Mr. Marsican to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to his political thinking and to the corresponding coalition agreement he made binding at the time and binding today on the signatories of the coalition agreement. We, as an electoral coalition, have chosen to change Serbia, inaugurated Mr. Marsican as a symbol of this change. Today he's not that anymore. It's a double motivation that we justify this initiative. On the one hand, it stems from the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the difference that the party has voluntarily made by distancing itself from the Democratic opposition to Serbia. On the other hand, it stems from the authority of the president of parliament, which has definitely been compromised by Mr Dragan Marsican's actions over the past few days. I will be direct and I think that we are obliged, primarily by affirming the institution of the Serbian Parliament, to speak openly, respecting the facts, without any concealment of the truth or leaving something behind for the days ahead. The Democratic Party of Serbia has made political will since the day it signed a collective agreement with all other parties, DOS members, and has gone too far from what is our priority. It has carried out its initiative, which has, as a consequence, our position, at three levels: the constant avoidance of responsibility that follows the political evaluations and moves that we have drawn together; further, continuously, and today through the continuous production of affairs that are degraded; and finally open, formal or not, by a coalition with parties that are our bitter political opponents, which has been promoted three times in a row in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, at the time of the adoption of three important laws. These are the Law on Chambers of Commerce, the Law on the Central Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises and the Labour Act. We do not care about information that the results of these votes can be related to the support of individual opposition parliamentary groups. We are interested in how it is possible that in the SPS or the Party of Serbian Unity, individual laws proposed by the DOS, and which have fully emerged from our coalition's electoral programme, are closer to the Socialists, the Radicals, and further to our coalition partners. It is unacceptable for the Democratic opposition to Serbia, and we want something so clearly, politically, to present it as a distance from the support on which Mr. Marsican was elected president of the republican parliament. DOS has taken over power in this society, facing a number of unresolved problems and a number of outstanding issues. In this debate, we will not talk about our daily political conflicts, which have irritated us over the past 10 months and which are now irrevocably ruining our mutual relations. We will talk about the conceptal differences that have been created in the meantime and that require Mr. Marsican's shift as President of the Republic of Parliament, given that in this place we want to see a man who will fully follow the promotional values that we insisted on in September of last year, when we won the federal elections and elections for the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; precisely those political values that received two-thirds of the citizens' support in the elections held for the republican parliament in December of last year. We have tried today: to find a lasting solution to the problem of southern Serbia; to the problem of Kosovo and Metohija; to find a place for our country within the international community that will guarantee our society respect for all those interests that we insist on and at the same time put us in a position to live within the community of other peoples, respecting the same principles that respect the modern world. We have finally taken over the destructive economy of this society, also facing the many problems we have been talking about here for months. All these issues, meanwhile, have become problematic, opening topics of direct dispute between the Democratic Party of Serbia as our coalition partner. It is true that representatives of the SPS or the SRS have the right to call the policy we are leading in the area of Kosovo and Metohija a shameful one, but the Democratic Party of Serbia does not have the right to respect the DOS decision and openly implement an anti-election campaign ahead of the Kosovo elections held on November 17th; nor does the president of the party have the right to say that he will go to the election campaign in Kosovo, when he is allowed to go to Pristina; because I will remind you that in August of last year, when his election campaign was under way, he went to Mitrovica without asking Pristina. It's the unprincipledness that we've been silent about, but this time, by adding up all those in the meantime coalition misunderstandings, we don't want to do that. You cannot invite citizens to the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, while conducting an anti-election campaign co-ordinated and orchestrated by the Democratic Party of Serbia. It's an insurmountable difference between DOS and DSS, we don't support something like that anymore, we don't tolerate it. You cannot insist on a common concept, return to the international community, at any time insisting on the rights and privileges that this return follows in each and every one, but at every moment avoid the clear responsibility resulting from that right. By the will of the SRJ President, past the current procedure, past the Constitution and past the Assembly's decisions, our country has become a member of the UN. We supported it, aware of the weight of the moment that decision was made. The moment Goran Svilanovic raised the flag of the SRJ in front of the UN building, we recognised all those international standards, which until that moment the society did not recognise with the will of the previous government. Among other things, we were recognized, given the decision made and the will given, on the basis of which the Security Council acquired the right to determine the truth and to define responsibility for every citizen of this society before the International Court of War Crimes in The Hague. Also, representatives of the opposition and on this issue can think differently from us, but they have not made those decisions. We brought them together, and we together have to bear political responsibility for them, or we have to tell the public that there is such a difference between us, that there is no longer a possibility of co-operation. The DSS has just tried to share our society, sharing definitely DOS. We, without any hesitation, made a very clear political decision on the basis of which former SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic was arrested. The president of the DSS and the president of the SRJ knew about the decision. Since the execution of the decision, he has distanced himself and tried to take a different political position before the citizens of Serbia, following the execution of the decision. The president of our coalition partner DSS and the president of the SRJ knew very well that, in addition to the decision to arrest the former president of the SRJ, we must also respect the decision to extradite him to the International Court of War Crimes; for, I will remind you, this results from his personal decision and on the basis of which our country is also admitted to UN membership. Under the extradition of the International Court of War Crimes, Mr. Kostunica, as president of the DSS, our coalition partner, has further destabilised our society, deepening and expanding our differences. This kind of behaviour was followed by created affairs, destabilized by the Republic Government, a government chosen by the will of DOS MPs in this assembly, the same MPs who elected Mr. Martian. I don't think that based on these examples, and the examples that followed, no one can dispute definitely the DOS's reflection on one side and the DSS on the other. That dissuasion also interrupted the kind of support on which Mr. Marscanin served as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important to say that, in addition to these conceptal considerations between the DSS and the DOS, there are very clear, precise and fully personal arguments on the basis of which Mr Marsican lost authority, necessary for the smooth performance of the role of the President of the Republic of Parliament. He, as president of this parliament, in a direct agreement with me, as representative of the largest parliamentary group, reached a compromise agreement on the basis of which the DOS parliamentary group has pledged to support the laws on justice and thus to put an end to each other's conflicts that are being transferred to parliament. In return, the DSS, whose vice-president is Mr. Martian, has pledged to support the Labour Act, in accordance with an agreement to monitor the implementation of the agreement. For us, the Labour Act is a system law; it defines to a good extent the character of our future; it is up to him to vote or not to implement the Law on Privatisation and all other accompanying laws, which we insist on as that parliamentary group that supports the transition in our country. Mr. Marsican was not willing to provide the necessary support for the vote of the Labour Act, not taking into account the fact that we are - as a parliamentary group DOS; and I as an actor of this agreement; the chairman of the Justice Committee; all members of the Justice Committee; representatives of the Supreme Court; the Ministry of Justice and local self-government; the Society of Judges of Serbia; fully fulfilled the commitments undertaken. That is why the President of the Republic Parliament lost authority in our eyes and he is no longer the person with whom we can negotiate the smooth work of our assembly. Another very important issue, the issue is open to harsh manipulation during the last vote on the Labour Act in principle. Mr. Martian, as President of the Republic Parliament, was obliged to respect the decisions of the relevant assembly committees. The Management Board made one decision on the basis of an insight into the official assembly documentation drawn up by competent assembly officials, headed by the secretary of the republic's parliament, Mr Maric, who is a member of the DSS and his personal election. During yesterday's, or the day before yesterday, Mr. Marsican was an actor of complete, rough manipulation, abuse of a video tape, accusing workers of the Ministry of Labour and Employment of Voting Stealing. The subsequent analyses definitely found that in places where the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Employment sat, MPs of the Democratic Party and the Democratic Centre voted exactly the way they voted in the previous ten months, since their parliamentary benches were not possible. It is very well known to the president of parliament and he has deafened that fact. I think that, on the basis of everything that has been said, we must definitely raise the issue of trust to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to realize that there are such differences between us that actually make it impossible for Parliament to work further in the current circumstances and to start electing a new President of the Republic of Parliament. Based on the unwritten rule of parliamentary life, the largest parliamentary group in parliament proposes a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Talp and other parliamentary groups received their representatives in the assembly presidency, and the SPS, just like the SRS, who did not want to use it with its will, unsatisfactory by some other moves that were taken in the internal assembly procedure, through agreements between all parties of our parliament. So, based on all these facts, it is very clear that DOS cannot support the policy that Mr. Martian is personifying as President of the Republic of Parliament today. So we're looking for his shift, and we want to choose a man who will fully be a symbol of the values that we insist on today; exactly what values we wanted to recognize in Mr. Marsicanin; the values we saw in January of the month, but which today unfortunately, there is no in its functioning. Finally, I'm going to give you a political advice, you can hear it and you don't have to respect it: DOS won't let what happened in our society happen tomorrow, what happened in Iriga yesterday, where local government formed a coalition of SPS, SRS and DSS. We will not allow you to defeat us today in parliament and in such a way, indirectly, return to Serbia that spirit and political manners we have fought bitterly for ten years. We will defeat you today at the vote and we will provide Serbia with a happier future, just the future you once believed in, which you are now removing from. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14901	Replica, Mr. Michael wanted first. (Ivkovic, from place: Replica. Gentlemen, if you do not respect yourself, at least respect this moment and this congregation. What kind of tasteless throws are these? This is really embarrassing. There's no point in saying this or warning. Here you go, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14902	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, those who falsely represent themselves as DOS in this assembly, are actually part of the DOS, because DOS is not what the DOS parliamentary group is now. DOS is the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica, and that is the whole truth about the DOS. If you want to speak for DOS, you can speak for a group of DOS deputies and part of DOS MPs. That's what you need to be clear about. How did you win the election and how did we win the election? How is this victory won and how is it in the coalition agreement? You said the unwritten rules were binding and it was an unwritten rule that the largest parliamentary group was given by the president of the assembly. It is true, the unwritten rules clearly make some more binding here than the signed coalition agreement, the unwritten rules oblige more than the laws, the unwritten rules are what for certain rules in the course of the game. That's the most important thing right now, for those who can manipulate cards and votes, and that's also their responsibility. When you're voting with the SPS on the Chamber of Commerce Act, that's fine. When you're voting with the Soviets for the Small and Medium Enterprises Act, that's fine. When you do not appoint a senior court president, Jelisavete Vasilic, with the Serbian Radical Party, then that is fine. When the Democratic Party of Serbia votes against one bill, then it is an unprincipled coalition with the SPS. Where that truth is -- probably only you know, and I believe that the citizens of Serbia also know. Why do socialists vote for your laws, and you brag about it? They vote for your laws because they're bad, so they can bury you as soon as possible. That's why they vote for your laws. Is the opposition in the interest of adopting your laws? When we say it's not a good law, the Socialists help you vote it, because it's bad and it's clear as day. We then come to you as a conscience; we say, gentlemen, it is a bad law; the Socialists do not think well of you; neither does the Party of Serbian Unity well; neither does the Serbian Radical Party, as an opposition, well; for they all want to bring you down and therefore vote for your bad laws. Mr. Wolfie, you'll explain... So, in this replica, at one point, I wondered - should we perhaps ask for a break, to call on Mr Kostunica; since Mr Jovanovic obviously began to replace those who had received trust in the elections; for whom the citizens voted, who visited Serbia and who ran the campaign; who came out on the line of Slobodan Milosevic; in whose name the previous regime was removed. I thought we should take a break, invite him too, so when Mr. Jovanovic went off to trade, he can replace everyone he knows and can. All the others selected by this congregation are her clerks. Maybe it hurts someone the most, that those clerks can account for this congregation, and that's the essence of things. It's not about Dragan Marsican, it's not about any of us; it's about trying to rule without the Assembly, away from the public's eyes; it's about the fact that someone wants to work against the interests of the citizens, that it does the opposite of the DOS programme. And if someone broke an election promise, if someone broke a contract signed with citizens and someone broke a coalition agreement, then it's the rest of the Democratic opposition to Serbia in this assembly; and that's the only truth. The deal says exactly what it is. And in further discussion, when we report to this point, we'll present more arguments. Someone here wants to introduce an executive dictatorship to a small door and no one in Serbia can allow it. The responsibility of the Democratic Party of Serbia and all parties here in parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is not Dragan Marsican. It is not about his resignations; this is about preventing the dictatorship of the executive government, about the power and responsibility of parliament for what is happening in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14903	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14904	This is a double replica: Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic and Mr. Mihajlov. No matter what someone's not here, they'll find out. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with great interest, as you all believe, I have listened to an inspired and comprehensive presentation by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. I was interested in listening to Mr. Michael's replica. But then I have to wonder, as probably all of you, as well as the citizens of Serbia -- where we live. Is there an outreach among Serbian citizens? Whether or not the citizens of the first and second order are created. First row - it's DOS. There's no difference. You will not fool Serbian citizens: you are all the same, whether DSS or DSS, you are all the same. Why are you going there? Why is it a sin to make a coalition today between the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia, in Irig, because these people understand each other well, in that city, there can be a coalition in Alibunar tomorrow between the Democratic Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia because as people and as citizens, they understand each other. Guys, what are you doing in this country? You want to build a higher and lower race? First and second row? So say it, put on the yellow ribbons, wipe us all out. Please, have you come in political blindness to the point that your idea, Mr. Michael, is that we are deliberately voting for your laws because they are bad. Please, in this House Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia and these are people who have knowledge, who have proven themselves professionally in their work. We have always opted for those legislative projects that are valid and pointed to those that are not good, as we have been surprised to see together the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party reject the Law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises; a comprehensive law that has been made clear to the Government of Serbia to strategically support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises; above all in the country, to develop a village; and that it must form an incentive fund with cheap money to achieve it. You said no together. Why? Because it proposed the Socialist Party of Serbia. That's not what we think. We think in the interests of citizens, not party, like you, both of you, think. We supported your judicial laws, gentlemen of the Democratic Party of Serbia, because they are good laws. We offered to fix them with amendments, not because they were bad, but because they were good. We weren't looking at who was proposing them, we were already looking at the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the justice system, because there was a crazy variant behind it that all judges were fired, so that some draw would be a judge again. But we also supported the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia because it is a good law, corrected by amendments. It has been created miles for the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to be a haven, where the economy will finally loudly say what conditions it fits to have development, that the standard of Serbian citizens is growing. My dear comrades and friends, gentlemen and ladies, think as citizens of Serbia, not painted in your political colors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14905	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we are MPs, we will certainly participate in this debate. But, please, when you talk about the violations of the Constitution that you have made in these years, about betrayals, about incompetences and crime over the past year, about handing over people to The Hague in political decisions and when you want to wash your dirty laundry, don't involve anyone outside the DOS coalition. What we heard from this pay phone is all your problems. Don't get mad - these are your shitty pants, and I don't have time to think about it, because you brought Serbia to the brink. Your conflicts have been going on for seven or eight months. What were you thinking? All of you are reminded of what you do. Are we gonna watch "The Diaries" every night and find out if you're in a fight today or not? But stay out of this Serbian Radical Party. What coalitions are you talking about here? How come you're transferring coalitions with someone else? The Serbian Radical Party is not in a coalition with anyone. You're talking about selecting the president of Irig municipality the day before yesterday. The vote was secret. No one knows how he's folding yet. When the municipal government is elected, if any of the radicals participate, there will be no more radicals. Wait till we see who's handling this against the orders of his political party. Maybe it's someone from the Democratic Party. Did you approve of him going to Raska for a coalition with the Socialist Party of Serbia? Yes, it is. Well, then what do you hate about that coalition with the Socialist Party of Serbia? How he can do it somewhere, and he can't do it somewhere. Do you have any principles? Don't get us involved in this anymore. I heard we're political rivals, and that's fine, but we're not bitter. We radicals are not bitter. We're normal people who do politics and want good for this people. If you act bitter as politicians, there's nothing about politics. Be reasonable. You chose one president of the assembly, you were in good relationships. We told the people that you were not one day, that you were gathered together to perform a task; behold, today we heard whose task was the task of the NATO Pact. Whoever of you is rebelling against a warrant coming from the West, even if they look like warrants, will be expelled, while there are 126 of you in this assembly, and then we will react to those of us who have never been to such collaboration with anyone in the world. And so once again, the SRS participates in this and has an obligation to participate in political life, but when you do this to each other, don't mention us at all. If we were wondering, the Serbian radicals, the Martian would not have been elected: the DOS asked. Had Serbian radicals asked themselves, citizens would not have voted for Kostunica, they would have voted for Serbian radicals, as the real representatives of a policy praised by Vojislav Kostunica, because it was obviously a big deception. But now, what's there is, you go on today, and we have a lot to say; whenever you put a point like this on the agenda, you're going to give us a chance to talk about you the way we talk about you in public at all. But for the first time in these few days, citizens have the opportunity to find out who they voted for and why in September and December of last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14907	He's got a word, Mr. Alexander Wolf, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14908	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me once again explain to you what it is: Mr. Mihajlov called me by name and last name, because I said we did not vote for any law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not by vote, but by refusing to vote for the appointment of Judge Vasilic in any place; and we did not vote for any other proposal; and I do not see at all how the Serbian Radical Party found itself in all of this. I have to say a few things that are very important in this debate -- us, the SRS, someone likes, someone doesn't like. You can think of us as thinking of what you want, but it's perfectly safe to do everything publicly -- that there's nothing to hide; that what we think and say and what we say and what we do; all of us, with everything we think and what we do, we get to know the citizens of Serbia. We have no secret agreements, no negotiations, no secrets, no public, no such, no such support for any part of the government, for any proposal. I must remind you - therefore, not for the choice of the Serbian Government, not for the election of the National Assembly president, not for any single legal and sublegal act, as was the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the MPs of the SRS in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not vote. It's an absolute fact that no one can kill. So far, we have had a principled opposition attitude: no one has bought us for anything, for any law, for any vote, or talked to us about it; nor has he been able to negotiate, because he knows what our political opinion is. The best evidence for this is that, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the SRS has been completely excluded in Serbia today, as the only political organisation, from many media; only representatives of Serbian radicals cannot appear anywhere. They show up, though, our pictures, but we can't show up on those TVs. I can't have Serbian radicals on RTS for a year, and I have to admit they're still the most correct ones in the journals, so sometimes they let us go on line two. You can't go to BK, you can't go to Pink, you can't go to Politics, you can't do any other TV. From all other parties, and ruling and opposition, I can't radicals, just because there are no agreements with them, no secret negotiations, no secret talks and no voting for DOS laws, no voting for what the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes; not because we think we have to always be against all laws, but because all these laws have been bad so far. Those laws were written by someone else. I also refer to what Minister Milovanovic said in the paper, he published "National" two days ago, that this law was also written under direct pressure and by the IMF's order, which promised to give Serbia 80 million, and if there is no law, there is none of it. And why do they need that law?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14909	Mr. Wolfie, speak almost a minute longer, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14910	I'm finishing up, Mr. Shabic. I can see how different arches you have. Someone just spoke for four minutes and 50 seconds, so you didn't warn him. That's how much Mr. Michael said, Mr. Shabic, I don't lie when I say something like that. But I'm done. The question arises - who are the people who order the national representatives in the National Assembly to pass such or such laws? Now, that's the fundamental difference between us. It's never Russia or anyone else. We voted here for one thing, and that was the Declaration on Kosovo and Metohija, so you broke it, stepped down and invited Serbs to the elections. Now, now the Shiplars are humiliating them down there, training them to press the tasters, how they're going to vote, and what they're going to do. Shame on the assembly. We're not in it, and we're not in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14911	There's a word Mr. Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14912	First, ladies and gentlemen, I will thank you for coming in great numbers, at least at the very beginning. I was appalled when I saw even Mr. Kasu, whom I especially warmly thank, as Deputy Prime Minister and MP, who was worthy to come to the congregation building. First, I will refer briefly to the text of the Proposal for Education, it remains here as a document, on the basis of which the resolution of the President of a Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is proposed; because what we heard in the oral presentation of the absent Mr Jovanovic has nothing to do with what is standing here, so I will focus my attention on the written text. In short, it says that "from the election to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today, Dragan Marsican has repeatedly violated the coalition agreement of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia". This sentence, as one of the two that explains the resolution of the president of the assembly, points to complete ignorance -- of course not by Mr Jovanovic or Mr Djindjic, who is actually the president of this parliamentary group -- what is the state and what is the National Assembly; or at least what it should be. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whoever he may be, must stick to the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure on Labour; and to non-alilation agreements. What the proposer is talking about here, except for the complete ignorance of the institutions of this country. Then, it explains: "Dear Marsican has put his actions and work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia into the role of exclusively representing the interests of the DSS, which has violated the role of the president of the National Assembly and has lost the confidence of DOS MPs." To a good extent, that is exactly what it is; precisely because the DSS remained the only protector of the DOS programme, as it existed a year ago, the programme with which it won the elections. I'll explain it later, if you're patient to listen. So, among other things, in this home, I advocated that the National Assembly carry out its constitutional obligation to control the executive authority, control of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is that what DOS wants or doesn't want? No, that's not what DOS wants. The fact that it is the DOS software commitment, once his and today's DSS, I have represented it in this assembly. You'll say it's not a DOS pledge. I agree that it is not, I agree that in that part, I have remained to represent only DSS's views, but thus the Serbian Constitution. I've been trying to make this National Assembly as much as I've been able to make an institution that will enjoy citizens' trust. On the occasion of the DOS proposal to abolish television transmissions, we as a party get that majority in the then joint parliamentary group to retain television transmissions, because it is one of the democratic fluids we advocated when we were opposition parties. We believe that Serbian citizens still, now that we are in power, should have insight into what is being done in this highest body. I'm up for it today, as president of the assembly for a while, and we'll see what the DOS will do later. In several other such and similar cases, where today's DOS has strayed from the programme's definition of the Democratic opposition to Serbia as we once did together, I have been alone and indeed represented in the work by the DSS, including the pronunciation of very critical courts to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I feel like we all used to, that the government has to be responsible, that it has to be under Parliament's control. MPs are obliged, regardless of whether they are in opposition or in the parliamentary majority supporting the government, not to give priority to the government's trust in everything it intends and does, but to do exactly the opposite - so that the Parliament can limit and control the government; and the parliamentary majority is precisely for its government to function responsibly because the only responsible government can be a good government. You, gentlemen of the DOS, forgot that. The DSS didn't forget that. Expressing harsh courts to the government of the Republic of Serbia was my duty. Finally, a little bit more about the procedure, about the Rules of Procedure, that there is no justification for the urgency of the proceedings due to possible adverse consequences, etc.; of course, I will not go into it because it only says that a large parliamentary group, which wants to rule Serbia, is unable to overcome any ordinary proposal to resolve the president of the Assembly. But it's in the end line less significant. More significant are the circumstances in which we are today discussing the resolution of a president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not going to talk about the opportunities in the country, but that Mr. Jovanovic actually forgot, if I'm not mistaken -- I'm sorry he's not here, he might answer if that's not the case -- that this is the President of the Assembly's resolution, but he was talking more about the DSS and the President of the SRJ, so at one point I'm completely confused and at which I'm actually in office right now and who he's actually talking about. But it's a good thing he went to focus, so he'll probably come back. I will talk about the circumstances in which we are discussing the resolution of the President of the National Assembly. The attacks, the harsh campaign, the organised campaign by, above all, the Information Bureau - the misinformation of the Government of Serbia, through the media and here in parliament, began, most strongly from the moment the DSS disagreed with the programme and way of work of the Republic of Serbia; with the fact that the Republic Government, more than willing to do so, actually daily violates the laws and the Constitution in its work; that it works untransparently, not to say untransparently, hidden from the eyes of the public, hidden from the eyes of this Parliament; that it works through the illegal formation of agencies etc. So, in such circumstances, when the DSS decided to withdraw its representatives from the government of the Republic of Serbia and boosted its legislative activity in parliament, attacks on us began at that time. The DSS submitted to this parliament a package of judicial reform laws, which were adopted in this assembly and received, later by representatives of the Council of Europe, a very high grade. The Council of Europe, among other things, requires our country, and that is also in our interest, to bring the laws in line with the legislation of Europe. It is one of the conditions to be accepted as full-time members of the Council of Europe and to open the way for us to enter the European Union. In addition to harmonisation of legislation, we are required to establish a rule of law, fight crime and corruption, establish institutions. These are European Union requirements, not what taxes will be; not how privatisation will be done; not what we hear from the mouth of the government of the Republic of Serbia daily. These commitments are made with appropriate arrangements with other institutions, which have nothing to do with our journey to Europe. These are relations with the IMF, the World Bank. Don't let them lie to us that these are the conditions for our entry into Europe. The conditions for our entry into Europe and our interest to enter there are the rule of law, sound institutions and legislation in line with European countries. Everything else is just fiction. So, when we stepped up our legislative activity in this particular section, when we proposed the reform laws here in the area of justice, highly assessed, supported by the professional public and (in that period) by the DOS coalition parties, but, above all, at the moment we gave the initiative, we came forward and came forward with a law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, a fierce campaign against the DSS opened up, and a parliamentary crisis was launched in Serbia. Think about what this is really about? Who cares if this state doesn't get a co-operation law with The Hague? Think about it, don't learn, but think about what it is and why someone wants to open a parliamentary crisis in Serbia; to prevent the adoption of legislation on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which would ensure the co-operation of this country; to meet the obligation to the international community and to that court; to ensure co-operation on legal grounds, but at the same time to protect the interests of the state and of any citizen who can be struck by this court, with whom we have to co-operate. At that moment, and at the moment when we were here having a debate about the labour law, until the moment we pointed out it - Ceda Jovanovic can say whatever she wants, whoever you think you think of when you remember that folk saying "when women lie," he can say whatever he wants -- there was no deal between DSS and DSS; there was no trade. The DSS in this temple, and by doing that, I'm going to finish my exposure, not a merchant, and he'll never be a merchant. The deal was, I stand behind it, and Chad can tell you whatever he wants, and you trust him with whatever you want, as follows: "Gentleman, don't stop making a package of reform laws, basically good ones. You have objections to certain members, you have amendments, that's fine. But don't stop the adoption of reform laws that this Serbia has been waiting for for a year, which are the condition of the international community. "From mere spite, protecting an incompetent minister of justice, who instead of doing his job, invents unconstitutional variations for taking down marks, as if the markings and symbols were important, not the essence in which we live today. Besides, as it's not a five-point star, a temporary mark could be a hecler. So that was the deal. The deal was: "Let's unblock the illogical, harmful blockade of parliament. Let's discuss it, bring justice laws in line, align our objections, our amendments to the labour law. "We said from day one: "The labour law is basically good, but the labour law, as proposed, does not protect the economy and does not respect social opportunities in Serbia. "There is enough space to remain reformal, to keep all its provisions in line with the International Labour Organisation conventions, but as proposed, it does not protect those who, in these circumstances, will have to remain jobless in a period of transition. This must, however, be determined by defining the minimum protection of these people, the criteria under which this will be done, by accompanying social programmes, etc., which cannot be regulated by this law. It was also our request, and it was a deal, not to go to spite, to unblock things; that instead of two basically good laws we get a set of good law in the field of justice and get a good law on labour. No agreement has been concluded, some key amendments to the labour law have not been adopted. After all, he is on the agenda and who tells you that he will not vote in this assembly; this will be discussed here. Maybe it would have already been settled today if someone hadn't decided that, the moment the theft was found here -- now I'm looking at you, don't bend your head -- deny it and start all this. Mr Jovanovic, as Mr Djindjic's link in this parliament, on his way to parliament and on his way to Surcin, can point out that the manipulation of the footage has been demonstrated. But that video, which is said to have been mounted by the Democratic Party of Serbia, was released from the original Serbian Radio-Television tape on a show that I participated in the night before last. When they played their original BETA tape self-initiatively, twice, and from that everything can be seen, as all of you, gentlemen accomplices in theft, clearly Mr. Novakovic was not here. Your silence, believe me, not as much as the applause from the back, tells me - and Mr. Jovanovic talked about stealing and manipulation - your silence and your silence while I was saying this gives me hope that we might one day be able to talk about these things in a way that can be discussed among correct people. Finally, when I was talking about these circumstances, when I was talking about a set of reform laws, when I was talking about what might be most important and important here, which is an attempt to prevent the adoption of a co-operation law with The Hague tribunal, then just to determine who, for God's sake, is the one who wants to challenge the crisis in Serbia. The crisis in Serbia today corresponds to those who are trying, and will not succeed, to stop the process of redefine by constitutional means, relations in the common state of Serbia-Montenegro that want to stop it, at the moment when such a process has been fully supported by representatives of the international community; at the moment when the process needs to get full momentum in order to finally resolve the issue of the common state; so that this state can get a new constitution, new elections, and by normal, regular means solve the deep political crisis that has existed in it for months. Also those who want Serbia to rule smoothly. Talks here about various moves: it is possible, with all the consequences that would be caused and with all the responsibility for the consequences caused. We'll pass that, we've passed the time of Slobodan Milosevic, so you don't think we'll hesitate in a time that someone's already called Zoran Djindjic's time, God forbid. We always enter these stories with a certain outcome, and that outcome is the victory of the Democratic Party of Serbia, that is, its political options. So, the parliamentary crisis in Serbia is caused by a violation of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia coalition agreement, which says that the post of Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia belongs to the Democratic Party -- we are not making a question of who it is; we will create -- and the seat of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the Democratic Party of Serbia. Never, for my great happiness and pleasure, have I been chosen by the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. I was chosen by the Democratic Party of Serbia and the citizens who voted for DOS, the then and the Democratic Party of Serbia that was in that then unique DOS. You voted by obligation, as we voted by obligation, for the President of the Republic government, under the coalition agreement. Finally, Slobodan Milosevic is guilty of all this, because if he and his rigid regime hadn't been, we would never have been in these coalitions, we would have gone our separate ways, we wouldn't have bullied each other, we wouldn't have combined incompatible concepts. And today, as at that time, we have two uncompromisingly opposed concepts, about which he tried to say something to Mr. Jovanovic, but went into details, not principles. These irreconcilable concepts (and there is indeed a question of how we can continue, and without the resolution of function, to watch) have long been known. One concept, remember, we entered it together a year ago as the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, is the rule of law in the first place. Look at the programme of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, see the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme. First of all, the rule of law, institutions, strong and respected, solid. Legal state. Not lawlessness, not what's celibate, and what's allowed, no matter what's illegal. The target doesn't choose the means. What are we gentlemen talking about today after a year? Celebrities? It's all allowed. It's celibate for a killer to kill. Yeah, yeah. Are we gonna make it that far? We've had such examples, gentlemen. Let's think about the state of Serbia today. That's what we're talking about here, these different strategies: are we going to rule of law or law? Are we going to rule of law or do we want the rule of political oligarchy and the rule of organized crime? What do we want? What did we want a year ago? What we wanted a year ago, the Democratic Party of Serbia wants today, and wonder where you are with your views and with your concepts. When we talked about strong institutions -- again I'm telling you, look at the DOS program, look at the government program, look at the programs of your parties -- are we here as MPs, working to make this highest institution strong, respected, stable. No, we're not. Why? Because the executive government, the Republic government, does not want parliament to be, as it should be, older than it and to control its work, so that it can organise its concept of ruling Serbia completely equal to the concept of the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, without the support of the people, uncontrollably and as lastingly as possible. The concepts differ in that we, the Democratic Party of Serbia, advocated, and we advocated the election programme a year ago, signed with the people (if you remember the agreement with the people, signed at the "Sava Center" and the happiness that we felt, when we brought these documents together), for the common state. How do we advocate a common state today? He bothers you? He's breaking up the common state, not Mr. Zoran Djindjic? I really don't get it. If Mr. Djukanovic, Mr. Djindjic, Mr. Batic stands for the preservation of the common state, believe me, I have not discovered it. There's no limited time under the Rules of Procedure, but I'll be brief. Besides, I haven't talked much in a year. I will end by saying something, and I ask Mr. Shabic not to give me a reminder because it is a quote, so that if it comes to harsh words, it is not mine, but the bishops of Nikolai: "There are people who hold this life for a large exchange office in which everything can be taxied to one extent and as a taxi or buy. What helps is that the law opposes... " (that's that cellulity, you know) "... The traitor taxis his country and sells. The judge cabs justice and sells. In this life shift, everything there is, there's a slave to exchange and sell, everything to measure and everything to pay... "So was my poor colleague tonight, and she pulled you out, and accepted you, that's for those 12 votes. That's how some people understand life. It's a very large text, I just wanted to ask you if you recognize anyone in this text? (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: Kostunica. ) "And when these people, who are far from being good deceivers and come to parliament as the best people of the people, then it would be a miracle if the temple of the legislation had not turned into a store of sacred and exchanges, it would be a miracle if there were no blemish and clink of money from that temple. Or, what do you think, do you think they're coming with the intention of making the best laws for the people? You are mistaken, they come to lead for themselves the most right-hand shop" etc. That's what he wrote, it doesn't apply to DOS at all, Mr. Nikolaj Velimirović, a long time ago, and it does refer to some, so what are you angry about? So such merchants, and we said something about them at the very beginning, such merchants sitting in a legislative temple, the temple of the people, Jesus Christ, would drive through Nikolai, with a whip from this house, in the same way that he would drive the merchants out of the temple of God. Of course, we can't expect that, but it will happen in the first election. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14913	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Nikolic, excuse me, according to the Rules of Procedure or as head of the group?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a request for the discharge of National Assembly President Dragan Marsicanin, signed by 112 MPs; it has included him in the 126 MPs' agenda. I have to read you a reason why the president of the National Assembly is required to be relieved. It is very short, core and points to the nature of the government that you are to date and perhaps another month together, in our dear Serbia. He says, "From the election to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the present day, Dragan Marscanin has repeatedly violated the DOS coalition agreement. Dragan Marsican, by his actions and work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has played a role in the exclusive representation of the interests of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which has violated the role of the president of the National Assembly and has lost the confidence of the MPs of the DOS." We submitted a proposal in October for the resolution of Parliament Speaker Dragan Marsicanin, but we really explained why Dragan Marsicanin cannot, according to us, be president of the National Assembly. It had not occurred to us to say that Dragan Marsican in the Assembly does not represent the interests of the SRS and that that is why he cannot be president of the National Assembly. We've been looking for all those examples where he hasn't treated us equally with all the other MPs. We've also been looking for examples of a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure. DOS says Dragan Marscanin no longer represents DOS interests. When did DOS determine that? Only when Dragan the Martian caught DOS stealing. And then it's clear: DOS interests are theft. While Dragan Marsican represented DOS interests, he could have been the president of the National Assembly. When he first responded to our remarks that you were stealing votes here, using other people's identification cards, he faced DOS interests. I have repeatedly proven to you that even the Deputy Prime Minister, Joseph Kasa, steals and steals at the time when we were in power. That's when we took it out of the pay phone, a list of his estates and houses. He kept stealing with you, maybe that's why you took him to the coalition, to steal votes, to deliver his identification card to those in the O.R. so that some decision could be made. There were 176 of you, and you were burned at 126, but by serving the small parties that Vojislav Kostunica introduced into this assembly. Well, if there is any justice, then, let those small ones who will never participate in political life in Serbia again, because now the Democratic Party knows how dangerous they are. She won't drag them anymore either, because some of them showed it yesterday; or we'll be the president of the assembly, one of us, or you won't have a decision. That's how it's going to be -- either that cigarette picker for Kosovo Mitrovica is going to be from our party or you won't have a decision; or our dean will be at some college, or ours will be the head of some university, and I'm looking at them all in the eyes, or you won't have our support; or ours will be the head of the IMT Management Board, so he'll give sandwiches to the IMT workers to come here to discuss the opposite MPs or decisions won't be made. So, the train goes further, only there are small wagons in it. You have the support of the Serbian Unity Party, recorded, obvious, clear. Yesterday, they looked good in the footage, and they were sitting on the DOS, and they were sitting on the SS. When a DOS quorum needs, there's an SSJ, and when there's no quorum, there's no Soviet MPs. I know what you can hold in your hands. Thus, he held them in his hands and Slobodan Milosevic, but beware, "whoever plays the fire, the fire burns." That's what Serbia's history has repeatedly proved. Today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we hear the brothers split; it is always a difficult process, always a tragic process. You had one house, a joint estate, and now I hear - created in conceptual differences. When we persuaded Serbian citizens in the election campaign, they did not believe us. It was a very beautiful story of yours. All the opposition gathered, all the minds gathered, the whole world gathered to bring Milosevic down and to live better in Serbia, so the Serbian citizens thought that the villains were towards their own children, if they didn't vote for it better, if they insisted on something else. Now we hear you've forced yourself to reconcile the terrible conceptal differences just to take power. To tell you the truth, there is no one among you who has fought against Slobodan Milosevic more bitterly than I have. As far as I know the political scene in Serbia, there is no such thing among you. But I'm now saying, clearly and loudly, however you realize it -- in the past year, ever since you won, it's only happened worse than in the years before that. It happened a lot faster up there. It may be that individuals among you are breathing easier, and the people are feeling more and more tormented. Here you are now in a request to replace the Martians with each other, accusing anyone who wants to co-operate with The Hague more quickly. The government is working very closely with regulations, and the president of the Martians is asking us to pass the law immediately, only to cooperate with The Hague. And what? Nobody can explain that to me. For money? Then why are you telling us about Reverend Nikolai, why you're telling us about the exorcism of the merchants from the church? Angels were also exorcising the bishops. Anyone who doesn't work should be expelled. You want the Martian to trade according to the first part of his last name. Think about it, all of you, all of you, all of you, the way you are, the way you've been stuffed, the tone between you was just 176 in January of this year. You have the same charge, you're doing the same job, only you're much less than in January. In a few months, there'll be even less of you. We heard here that your mandate was given to you by the people. Why don't you ask the people if he's ready to deny your mandates? People wonder when he's allowed to go to the polls. The fact that you treat your people with statements written in the Government of the Republic of Serbia has bothered me since day one. Some people will mind today. What some people are experiencing today is what radicals have experienced since you came to power. We have learned to fight, and you who have participated to this day will learn. You'll see, when you resist things, they look much easier. If you bend your back, if you let them hit you, if you whine and beg, they'll keep beating harder. We, radicals, have not allowed anyone to beat us without answering. Looks like the number of flogged will soon increase the number of those who whip. It's a dictatorship, then. Then when these whip dictatorships are lifted, there's no room left. Listen up, you DOS guys, you opened Pandora's Box. You've introduced the principle that a new government, past the law, is dealing with its predecessors. That principle is now applied to conflicts between each other. If those you call bitter political rivals, and I am not, that principle will be applied to you. Whenever you bring someone's children into a state that they can't sleep because you've done evil to their parents, think of your children who have children. You who don't have, make children, because you'll be more serious about the state than you think about right now. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14915	Replica, Mr. Michael? Then Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am using the right of the president of the parliamentary group to report on this agenda. I can't argue with the previous discussion and still invite all of us to one formal, if you will as a representative of the people, but also with a moral obligation to broadcast a message to the citizens of this room that we can all politically differ from think, but that human beings should realize all those bridges that can be built and cooperate wherever possible. I'm going back to that replica I had. I simply cannot believe that there can be a ban on co-operation with neighbours, who in some place in Serbia (although politically different thoughts, but because most of them are needed), people can agree and run their own town, their own local self-government, right. We're the ones who need that message to broadcast. As for this item of the agenda, the SPS parliamentary group agreed on eight of its MPs to sign the SRS' request for Mr Marsicani's replacement. We have a lot of reasons for that. The Assembly is a place to resolve large, significant national and state interests. It's not just a place for law enforcement. What we found most difficult was the time when a registration was made for the election under Hekerup's condition. We felt, and we sent a request to parliamentary groups, everyone in this House, that we should really hold an extraordinary session of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and discuss Kosovo and Metohija, to discuss this - yes or no. Here, in this House, not between 5, 10, 15, 18 people. How to act, what to do and what advice to give to the citizens of Serbia from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, especially those who have escaped. However, after the story of the late Gavrilovic, following the big wave of corruption and crime, in such a situation as the extraordinary session of the Republika Srpska Assembly was expected, to discuss corruption and crime, so if it should be in the past 10 years, to discuss Kosovo and Metohija, we again had an extraordinary session, where for the second time we discussed the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly. The first days of the assembly with the Dossovo majority also discussed the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly in February. They have ruled out that the reduced rights of MPs, but this rules of procedure adopted in September, which drastically reduced the right of MPs of the National Assembly in relation to the rules of procedure adopted in 1994, is probably the greatest sin against democracy and the obligations that we MPs have before the citizens who have elected us. If we speak to the executive authorities, and there was indiscipline. It is true that the Serbian Parliament should exercise control over the executive authority. When I went out for this pay phone on March 30th and told you what was going on in front of President Slobodan Milosevic's residence, I got behind my back to lie and it wasn't true. Now we know it's true and that everyone who needs to know that in DOS knew what was going to happen. No one can say they don't know what's going on, and when they find out what's going on, say I don't agree with what's going on. Especially someone who wore a story to get DOS to power. Principleality is important, it is important when it comes to requests for committees. We asked immediately here for a survey committee to be put on the agenda as it all happened. It never came to the agenda, and when it came, expanded by extradition, everyone voted the same way: both the DSS, and DS and everyone at DOS. So, you know, for us socialists in this House there is no difference between you and him. You're also thinking about those questions where we disagree. We would like to consider the SRS request, strengthened by the signatures of the SPS MPs, to immediately vote for president Marsicanin's replacement, because it is a figure of the DOS regime and the DOS government. But since there's a debate here about you, about you who've learned that in your club, your college, the 18-man politburo you decide about everything and that this is actually a kind of farce, where 200, 220, 250 of us take the diaries and sit down, and most of us know in advance how to vote, we're not going to participate in this. You could have ended it with you without us coming out with a final decision. That is why we have decided not to participate in this vote, when it comes to the resolution of the president of the National Assembly of Mr. Martians, because we consider this to be a problem that has arisen in the DOS. It's a problem that didn't come up by accident. I'm sure you know a lot more about yourself, a part of it here for this pay phone you're telling both us and the citizens of Serbia. It is clear that this country is much harder to live in this year than it was in previous years; it is clear that we may be facing even harder days. It is clear that there are conversations between you about who needs and what part of the guilt to take. We will not participate in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14917	Here you go, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14918	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not want to use the right to replicate because it is beneath me to answer lies and slanders about the alleged coalition of the Party of Serbian Unity and DOS. It's so illogical, so unnatural and so impossible that it's unnecessary to talk about it. I have already told this speaker that the debate on the Labour Act, which has been held in this assembly these days, is not actually a debate on the Labour Law, but on the fight of the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia for power, or power in the Republic of Serbia. The fight, unfortunately, takes place on the back of workers subject to the Labour Law and on the back of all Serbian citizens. Many have resented us for putting cards into our parliamentary benches these days. If you remember, since this assembly started working, on the first day of the constitution, MPs of the Serbian Unity Party regularly fulfil their duties under the Rules of Procedure and insert cards into MPs' units. We only left the meeting of the Serbian Parliament once, when our request to discuss the situation in Kosovo and Metohija was rejected. We returned the day the request was respected and the debate on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija began. We're very principled about what we're going to do in the future, no matter who's going to be in the future. The Serbian Unity Party will vote for Mr Dragan Marscanin's shift as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for several reasons. First of all, I would like to point out that I highly respect Mr. Martian as a very cultural and tolerated person. For the first months of my work, I have also made statements about how this is an example of how the congregation is tolerantly managed. But my first disappointment was the day the Serbian Unity Party applied for the replacement of agriculture minister Dr Dragan Veselinov. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 200, the President of the Assembly is obliged to place, no later than 15 days after the date of receipt of the valid request, a change of the minister whose shift is required. It's December 6th, and yet that point hasn't come to the agenda. So it's a grave violation of the Rules of Procedure and a severe violation of the demands of the Serbian Unity Party. Secondly, I must say, and I hope that, if we are at least a little honest, that this assembly has never started working at 10 o'clock, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, Article 81, on the work of the Republic of Serbia Assembly. We start working about 45 minutes to an hour late. Please, if the factory worker or the company is 15 minutes late, he gets the penalty points. When that happens again, he gets fired. Are we better than workers who work in businesses or workers who work in factories? Unfortunately, it is a disrespect for the Rules of Procedure, which goes to the burden and soul of Mr. President of the National Assembly. Third, immunity was seized by the MP, Dr. Predrag Canovic, just because it was a private lawsuit. This has not been established by the Rules of Procedure. This is against the Rules of Procedure and against the law is done and the President of the Assembly is responsible, which he has put on the Assembly's agenda in general. I have to say it was a case where Dr. Predrag Canovic, as an infectious, just examined a child who died after the surgery. Where his guilt lies, with my pity and compassion for that unfortunate child's private lawsuit. Fourthly, most importantly, Mr. Martian is a DOS member. This has been confirmed here today after this pay phone, and these days it can be seen in the newspaper -- that the Democratic Party of Serbia still feels like a member of the DOS. That's the biggest reason we're going to vote for his shift, and not only for his, but also for the replacement of all those DOS members whose shift is to be requested. The Serbian Unity Party will not vote for Ms. Natasa Micic's appointment as president of the National Assembly for the same reason, indeed without any claim that for reasons related to her personality we will challenge her appointment as Parliament Speaker, regardless of which she has often directed her blade at the head of our parliamentary group, Dragan Markovic Palm, but it has nothing to do with our position. Our attitude is because she's DOS. Why? DOS is guilty of failing to keep the promises made in the election campaign. DOS is guilty because it urged Serbs from Cosmet to go to the Kosovo and Metohija elections. It is, don't forget, the first done by the president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr Vojislav Kostunica. The violation of Serbia's constitution, the violation of Serbia's laws, the rule of law and, above all, what irritates the citizens of Serbia, the unconstitutional and illegal extradition of citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia to the UN tribunal -- these are enough reasons for the Serbian Unity Party to never enter into a coalition with DOS or with any DOS party, and at least with the Democratic Party, because it is so unnatural, illogical and we really have nothing in common. We expected yesterday that the Democratic Party of Serbia would make a request for the removal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In that case, we would vote for a government shift for the reasons I cited in the previous presentation. The Serbian Unity Party is an independent and independent political organisation that will not join the coalition until the next elections, nor any deal, with any other parliamentary party. Thank you for your attention and for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14919	Replica, Mr. Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14920	Shortest, replica. Of course, Mr Pelevic, as a representative of the opposition party, has full right and is expected to support a proposal to dismiss the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who was elected as the majority representative. It's perfectly logical and completely understandable and there, of course, no one has the right to object. But I will point out something that affects me personally, even though I can explain it. The hardest thing for me is hearing that I'm a member of the DOS. It is an interpretation, but I would like to say that I was never a member of any other party except the Democratic Party of Serbia. I've never been a DOS member. The Democratic Party of Serbia is in a coalition, unfortunately, so it had to be, with other parties making up the coalition. But there is a significant difference between being a DOS member and being a member of the party that is in that coalition. It's just one note. Secondly, as regards putting on the agenda any point-simply, it seems by duty. Whether a question is resolved in one way or another, whether it is justified or unjust to take away immunity, we can agree or not, but putting on the agenda is an obligation that follows the Rules of Procedure and that is, simply, so. As for another really difficult remark, if I may say so myself, I have never been late for these ten months in this people's congregation. The fact that we don't have a quorum to work with is the least, in fact, not at all, my responsibility. It's the responsibility of those MPs who don't feel a sense of responsibility to the MPs' obligations, so you can't force them into the O.R. But that's not the case with me. The fact that I'm not going into the hall for ten hours is just because, on official record, by the time it leaves with the session, there are not enough members present. The moment it is determined that there is a required number for the quorum, at which point I enter the hall; it is usually half eleven or fifteen to eleven, to my great regret. I would not want the shame of this assembly to be passed on to me or to my party in any way by lack of quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14921	He has the word Mr. Marko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14922	Dear fellow MPs, the New Serbia parliamentary group, and I as its representative, here we have two times ten or twenty minutes to expose here what today is the point of the agenda. Let me tell you right now, we're not going to use that time; and it's not a political speech, nor a tribune here, to talk about it. We are, of course, expected of laws, which and how we should discuss here. However, given that the issue is very important and that, as political parties, we are very sorry that these talks are not being held tomorrow at the DOS meeting, which is scheduled, and after that in the Serbian Parliament, they (as they have always been), we will, along with our colleagues from DS and all the other 16 DOS parties, have done what we did in Serbia last September, respect DOS decisions and all coalition agreements until tomorrow's DOS meeting, in the evening. So we will vote in this House for Mr Marsican and for his stay in parliament, where he was, and after tomorrow's DOS session and DOS survival - yes or no - New Serbia will see how, in which way and with whom it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14923	Anyone else answer for a word from the heads of Parliament? No, I don't. ) The first member of parliament to be declared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is Mr Dragan Markovic of the Serbian Unity Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14924	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Soviet Union will vote for the removal of the president of the assembly, for the reason that he is a representative of the DOS and because it is in the morning, as they say, the opposition, until the first darkness falls, and when the first darkness falls, they are in DOS and going to the DOS meeting. The SJJ believes the DOS should leave power and that new emergency elections at all levels in Serbia are being discussed as soon as possible, for several reasons. A lot harder to live in this year than we did in 2000. I will list a few things that the Soviet Union thinks have been wrong in the past year, and we need to realize that the biggest responsibility has been the biggest party in the DOS, which is the DSS, because it has the president of the state, and the president of the state could have done something to prevent some of the bad things that have been happening in the Republic Assembly, and in Serbia and Yugoslavia at all. Mr. Vojislav Kostunica was never there, he never saw, he didn't hear, he didn't know when something bad happened in Serbia. We thought it was a good national party, however, based on their behaviour, we realized that it is not true how they are represented. It's known to the public that people were arrested on the street, at the market, like cattle, and taken to The Hague. Apparently, these are some criminals, etc. I think Mr. Martian and his party are responsible for doing nothing about the invention of mass graves. You know that Yugoslavia was bombed because it allegedly committed genocide in Kosovo and Metohija. The NATO Pact did not have cover for but we were making genocide, however, with lightning speed 15 mass graves were invented to confirm that the Serbs were a genocide people. We from the SS, and neither of you, have seen any tombs, except for one hole that's been shown. We couldn't see anything in that hole. Mr. Martian and his party did nothing to punish those who also invented three coolants, and we only saw one freezer. Mr. Marscanin did nothing about being released from Serbian prisons by Shipari, terrorists. Even one DSS representative says they are not terrorists, those who were in Serbian prisons, are Albanians who are in prison for stealing mobile phones. Mr. Martian has done nothing to demand that the elections in Cosmet be postponed because the conditions have not been created. Mr. Marsicanin, as president of the Assembly, had the right to the Rules of Procedure (and the Soviet Union has made a request) that at this session, or at one of the sessions be the agenda point of Cosmet and the problems that are happening in Kosovo and Metohija. That's not what happened. We were talking about this speaker that there were no conditions for Serbs to go to the elections, for several reasons. First, the fate of 1,300 missing Serbs from Cosmet was not solved; no security guarantee was created in Cosmet; the housing problem was not solved, for those Serbs from Cosmet living in Serbia, you abolished, gentlemen (and you and the entire DOS), assistance; 18-65-year-olds do not receive help in Serbia, and you did not provide them with jobs; of which they can live. Also, the president of the state had the right to demand that the elections in Cosmet not go out with Hashim Thaci, Suroi, cannot remember their names, and other Albanians, for whom Serbia and Yugoslavia have material evidence that they killed Serbs in Cosmet. Mr. President of the state and the party president and his party were divided by the Serb people in Cosmet. The vice-president of the party, which we highly respect, we from the SSJ, is Mr. Marko Jaksic, who lives in Cosmet and who should be trusted whether the conditions to go to elections have been created or not. The president of the state calls on Serbs to go to the elections and the vice president of the same party, gentlemen, says Serbs do not go to the elections. It is incomprehensible for us that such things happen in one party. Why are we voting against Mr. Martian - the president of our party, Professor. Borislav Pelevic said we have nothing against him personally. He is a good man, but he may be a good man if you have an aunt to marry him, an aunt; he will not surely harass her. This country needs a firm hand, we're a failed state, where you can't say - I will, so I won't, so I haven't heard, I haven't seen, I'll be there, etc. The party voted with DOS for the Privatisation Act, which is very harmful to Serbian factories, because one member says the factory will not be sold to the highest bidder, but to the one who has the best investment programme, and the tender commission is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Before that, we didn't adopt a social programme for workers, when these workers are out of work, which they're going to live on tomorrow. So you have that responsibility, along with DOS together. Also, we from the Soviet Union have resented DSS and President Vojislav Kostunica because his wife proposes a Serbian constitution and splits Serbia and Serbia into six provinces. That, too, is not said in your election programme until before October 5th. We had an ex-government, where the government was running out of bed. It's happening to us again, gentlemen. I think the President of the State's wife should organize some humanitarian action, help the mothers who have a third, fourth and fifth child, as other wives of the president in other states do, not write us the Constitution and make us a hat, which has fallen and covered our mouths, and we can't breathe, gentlemen. Also, the Soviet Union will vote for President Marcian's shift, as well as DOS, and let's hope that you from the DSS will have the strength, not to flee from this hall, but to write together with us after this session a request for the replacement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is necessary, gentlemen, that extraordinary elections be discussed. I'm famous for being a humanist. I've always calmed down the quarreled parties in the former coalition "Together" in Jagodina, where four parties made the Coalition "Together". When I saw that I couldn't reconcile them, then I fought them all the way to save the city, eight councilmen came to me and I took their power. I also suggested that we get you back together. This Serbia doesn't have time to argue. This Serbia is the biggest blind man in the world. If the Together Coalition, consisted of four parties, four leaders, could not survive, how would the DOS that has 18 parties, 18 leaders survive? That was unnatural at first. That's why we vote; if we take down the biggest game, it used to be the biggest DSS game, we'll speed up the snap elections. I won't get caught. You want to throw away the bone so we can fight radicals here and you get political points. I'm not going to attack any radicals or SPS. We're all opposition. Our task is, if this government isn't doing well, to bring you down. We say we'll never be in a coalition with anyone until the first snap elections. When we get together after the election, then we'll see who accepts the SSJ program, we'll have power with these parties. And, according to the poll in Serbia, the Soviet Union will have a slightly larger share of cakes in the Republic government. We're not voting for Mr. Martian and the DSS. I will list several of our amendments, which are natural, cultural, of general interest to the citizens of Serbia. You refused those amendments, and we voted for all your amendments. One of the amendments is - if the peasant owes the state when the country owes the peasant, that the state can't charge him interest. Gentlemen, that doesn't make any sense. There's nothing in the world about that. You're voting that the state can charge him interest if it's mutual demand. We also said that if each other's claim is between peasants and the state, he can't be taken hostage. It's normal for you, because you've adopted that preying on things can be done at night, because the peasant is in the field during the day, and then he would be at home; he, so tired, lies down to sleep, then two inspectors with the police ring the doorbell to get him a TV and a bed where that peasant sleeps. You voted against that amendment. Also, gentlemen of the DOS, and especially you from the DSS and Mr. Martian (which isn't here, which I hate to talk about people who aren't here, I love to tell him everything) voted against our amendment, and our amendment said that Serbs from Cosmeta, who are in Serbia and have three children, are not working anywhere, that their families should have one salary and live on it. That's how we sort out some social peace. I am not surprised by those who live in Belgrade, Vojvodina, who voted against our amendment. But it was strange for our friends living in Cosmet. They voted against our proposal because they say it's party discipline, not to give us Chad. Well, it took you a long time to get rid of that Chad, and I'm talking about Chaddy for days at every TV station that's Chad. But no Mr. Vesic, I expect Mr. Vesic to come if anyone can call him, so I'd like to say something about him. Also, gentlemen, we will not vote for Mr. Dragan Marsican because we have proposed an amendment - peasants are asking the state for their sugar tail, and the country has not paid the peasants. In one diagram, there was all that late payment to the agricultural producers. I suggested adding another column, paying off those peasants that torment, that sweat of theirs. Gentlemen of the DOS and you of the DSS, you voted against that amendment. Does that even make any sense what we're looking for, or you? Also, the SS will not vote for Mrs Natasa Micic. If he's in the O.R., I wouldn't talk unless he's in the O.R. ) Mrs. Natasa Micic I respect the Kadom and whenever I see her in the hallway (as well as those who attack us, it is normal, politics is such a profession) I respect her - lady, how you are, etc., but she votes, giving me a warning because I was talking about peasants, regressed oil. Mr. Martian didn't want, the respected agricultural producers you're watching on this transmission to put in any of the agendas for agriculture. All of us in the election campaign mourn the peasant that he is sad and miserable, and when you come to power, no one takes care of them. I need Mrs. Natasha to give me a public notice, stick her hand in my pocket and take 100 marks once. But to tell Mrs Natasha Micic - I am a businessman, I did not enter this hall to get paid, but I began to do politics when I saw that politics was run by those who did nothing in life, those who have no idea, whose first job is either ministerial or Serbian government. That's why I started doing politics, gentlemen. I've known everything in my life to work, I've had one thorny trip. I know how to make a final bill, I know how to fill a virman, I've been doing sports, I know how to tune plows, I know how to plow. Half the village at my place makes their tractors so I can tune their plows. So, I know everything and I don't tell you what else I know. Also, Mrs. Natasha gave me a public notice and dragged her hand into my pocket when I suggested that the mothers living in the country who don't work anywhere have one salary, so we could fight the white plague. That's why she gave me a public notice. Gentlemen, let me finish this talk, and I would ask you to hear: when the host in the house grows old, doesn't see, doesn't hear, and when he says, "What did you say, I wasn't there?" Then he handed over the cake and the candle to the son, or if he had a female child, to her. It is high time for new elections to be discussed and for citizens to hand over cookies and candles to the Foreigners of Serbian Unity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14925	The word is Mr. Jaksic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14926	Since Markovic mentioned me, it is true that I was against the election and I remained consistent with it. But it seems to me that Mr. Markovic's entire story has another flow, allegedly to justify why the Soviets would vote for Mr. Martian's shift. I don't think all these reasons are strong enough and convincing. On the other hand, if Zoran Djindjic may have opened the World Kick Box Championship, it would not have been the main and crucial reason for the SSJ to decide on a move like this, or step. What's hiding I don't know, but it seems to me that all the reasons why the Soviet Union's story is not strong enough or convincing enough for them to vote for that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14927	Here you go, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I very much respect Mr. Mark Jaksic, but I just need to mention some things. It seems that all stories about the SSJ and DS coalition began the day Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic opened the World Kik Box Championship. Maybe it makes sense to someone, but it really isn't to me. It's an event that's of general interest to our country. They came to us from 64 states, all over the world, over 1,000 competitors. It's the world's first championship after 13 years in Yugoslavia. I don't think there should be any difference between the opposition and the authorities. Just to mention to you Mr. Marko Jaksic - six months ago at the official reception of the Kik-boxing Union of Yugoslavia delegation to President Kostunica, Mr. Kostunica was offered to open the World Kik-boxing Championship and until the last day we thought that he, as president of the state, would, of course, do so to the president of the state, open the World Cup, such a great event that has never been in Yugoslavia before, and that was logical. Two days before that, I was in a meeting with President Kostunica, two days before the World Cup started, to see if he would open or not. He said, "I'll let you know tomorrow." The next day, I was told that he would accept the Kik-box delegation of the World Federation. So my wish was for the president to open up. We're here for tea. The World Federation has codes and principles to open the world's highest statesmen of the country in which it is held. That's one of the conditions for getting a candidacy. Since the sports minister, or federal secretary, Mr Vojislav Andric did not want to participate in the World Cup organisation because he did not give a single dinar for this World Cup, it was excluded that he would open the championship. That was the conclusion of the World Cup Committee. Secondly, the prime minister of the federal state, Mr Dragisa Pesic, said he was going to Trieste for a meeting that day, very important, and could not open. What's left? Who else can we offer the world championship? We offered the Serbian prime minister and the Serbian prime minister opened it. If opening the championship by the Serbian prime minister means the start of the coalition, then it really isn't logical, but it's really funny with us sports workers. What would happen if I suggested that the World Cup be opened by a function of the Serbian Unity Party? Perhaps a good commercial for the Serbian Unity Party, but very bad for our reputation in the world at the International Kickbox Federation. So don't, please, Mr. Yaksic. I appreciate all your pain and your grief for what happened in Kosovo and Metohija. It is certain that we agree that elections in Kosovo and Metohija should not have been accepted at this time, nor should Serbs come out on them. Because what's happening to us now in Kosovo and Metohija, we know that well. For the first time, they did not release MPs from the plane on the runway, and the second time, when they were released, lectures were given to them by MPs from Albania and Croatia. Is there more mud, is there more shame for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija than what is happening to us now after the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14929	People's MP Miroslav Markicevic came to the floor, and the next one was announced by MP Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14930	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I'm sorry that I'm going out for the first time in 10 months for a pay phone and I need to make a statement on the agenda point here today. It seems to me that 14 years ago, in this room, something was happening that turned out to be bad for the Serbian people. I believe and hope that possibly the bad consequences of what will happen today, here in parliament, the Serb people will not suffer for 14 years. The party I belong to is called New Serbia. What's going on is nothing new. We've seen this before in some old systems. Our people did not send us here to change (I want to tell DOS MPs first of all) but to pass regulations and laws that will, as soon as possible, improve the standard of citizens. I hope that those who vote today are aware of this decision and will take great responsibility for everything that happens after this. The New Serbia parliamentary group will not vote for Mr Dragan Marsican's shift, and I will not do so personally, because I have become an MP in front of a parliamentary list called the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14931	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vucic, and the following is the declared MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party was fully exposed to various manipulations, pressures and attacks by the president of the National Assembly in the previous period: we were taken from the word, we were told warnings, only when we were telling the truth from this pay phone, and even when we were saying that the session was delayed because of the union strike, etc. We've always made that attitude very clear. He doesn't think, I suppose, that in Serbia and the Serbian Parliament, there will be anything better with Natasa Micic - with one who sits behind the pay phone saying warnings; with one who is unable to endure any different opinions; with one who is not able to call the MPs to the MPs, but as if the patriarch, Serbian Mr. Pavle, spoke a letter to Easter or Christmas; and I must say, since we have very little time to speak, Tomislav Nikolic did not lie, and Tomislav Nikolic did not tell any lies from this pay phone. I don't have much, especially not materially, I can't compare myself to the material wealth either with Pelevic or anyone else from that party. I have a child, and now I'm saying, "It's not a lie, it's not a lie." I also have proof of the way Goran Vesic pressured Pelevic to appear on individual TVs. What I have, what it is and what it is, is that I swear to tell the truth. I have proof. Somebody come out and say that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14933	Mr. Wolfie, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14934	Are you asking me to stick to the subject? It bothers you, as soon as I'm telling the truth from this pay phone. Do not warn me, and do not beg me. No agricultural producers, nor anyone else, will be deceived if they give their trust, cake and glory to the Serbian radicals. Only in such a way will honest, honorable, and responsible people come to power. And the fact that you're going to argue, fight, trade -- once you take one, once you take the other, you can do whatever you want. I'm not interested in DSS or DOS or any of you. You've had enough of Serbia in the past, and it's been a little over the past year, but it can't do that. Two months waiting for our proposal, two months you won't look back, and after that in one day and one night, because you've been caught stealing, then everything can; and then from the hills of the valley all - who, how, and in what way, will do it. And who says I'm not telling the truth (and I apologize to my colleagues for taking their time) let him come out for a pay phone to say that I didn't tell the truth. I have proof that I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14935	Replica, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's quite true that I showed up on Pink TV on Grand Show 10-15 days ago, but it's not a production of Pink TV. It is a show of Grand Production, owned by Lepa Brena, Boba Zivojinović and Saša Popovic. They invited me to be a guest on a fun show, where there was not a single word about politics, and it's my only performance on Pink. I'm neither on YU INFO, nor on Infotop, nor on RTS. No one from the Serbian Unity Party has ever been a guest at RTS since this assembly was formed. I was only on BK TV once, only once on TV politics, along with three colleagues, one of whom is Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic, one Mr. Sabic, which was about 15 minutes. It's all my appearance on all the TVs. Please, Mr. Vesic, if he hasn't already applied for me to appear twice a week on all televisions, I ask him to endure and I will be very grateful if I participate. It will be very nice for the Serbian Unity Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14937	There's no replica on the replica. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: Please, replica, misread, I didn't speak of it at all.) ) Mr. Vukic, then it was necessary to intervene when I gave my word to Mr. Pelevic, if you don't think he had the right to reply. I can't give you a replica on the line, not at all. You should've intervened then. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: he misread my words. I may have hurt the Rules of Procedure by giving a word to Mr. Pelević, but since I gave him the replica, I cannot give you a replica on the line. Mr. Wolfie, I really can't, I'm sorry, you're not the head of the group, you don't have the authority? Mr. Wolfie, I can't give you my word. And if you're looking for the Rules of Procedure, if you're asking to establish that I hurt the Rules of Procedure by giving the word to Mr. Pelevic, I'll give you the word, but I can't give you the replica. Come on out and get the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14938	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, don't pretend to be naive, Mr. Pelevic, don't play innocent. (Singing: Mr. Wolfie...) ) Because of you, Mr. Pelevic, someone was fired because of you and because of Vesic. (President: Mr. Wolf, I gave you my word to speak of the Rules of Procedure and please... Because of your behavior and your falsification here, for all....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14939	Mr. Wolfie, please talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14940	You hurt the Rules of Procedure because I didn't say anything offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14941	What provision of the Rules of Procedure are you referring to?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14942	I didn't say anything offensive, which is why you might be entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14943	What provision of the Rules of Procedure are you referring to?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14944	Article 1 and Article 98, Mr. Shabic, you've hurt that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14945	Will you quote me what I hurt in article 1?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14946	Read it yourself, you can read it, Mr. Shabic, you can read it and read it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14947	Look, it's not a problem if I can read, I'm happy to, but you have to explain to the MPs how I hurt the Rules of Procedure, because if you're not satisfied, I'm going to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14948	By giving a word without any basis to anyone...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14949	Mr. Pelevic is mentioned, the names are mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14950	I commended him, he loves it most when he mentions his co-operation with Mr. Vesic and the Democratic Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14951	In a very negative context, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14952	... It's very positive for him. It's not for the rest of us, and it's very positive for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14953	Don't judge what's positive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14954	It's not a big deal, it was about something else, it wasn't about one TV, it was about more television and not about special shows... (President: Mr. Wolfie, I will really be forced to give you a warning if you continue to speak... )......................................................................................................... It was already about special statements. There's a written warrant to let you know, it can't be hidden, it can't be hidden. That's how the villagers will come to you for those tractors, for the agency law that you forced them to vote for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14956	Mr. Vukic misread my statement. He says the peasants should give it to him. You had that big peasant cake for two and a half years, Mr. Wolfie, and you brought that peasant cake into your apartment, Mr. Wolfie, which you got. Mr. Wolf, you say you were a great student at law school. I don't argue with that. But, Mr. Wolfie, in your life, you haven't made a single business contract without someone else benefiting from it. You made one where you took the state flat, Mr. Wolfie. It's your political... (President: Mr. Markovic... )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic is an office liar and a great liar.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14958	Mr. Wolfie, please choose your words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14959	I choose words and I say the least possible things that are true. Mr. Markovic thinks I'm going to scare him, because he thinks he might put me in the basement and that he might torture me, as was the case with a lot of people before, so I'm going to change my behavior; or threaten me, to harass me in some other way. I'm not afraid of him, and I'm not afraid of all criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14960	Mr. Wolfie, please choose your words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14961	I choose words, and what bothers you... (President: You don't choose words, use offensive expressions, and I persistently tolerate it. )......................................................................................................... which I may be one of the few in Serbia who can say what is true and what he thinks. As for what I did, you lie about it, too, Mr. Markovic. I've worked with, with my father, I've built houses that the Ustashas have burned; I've mixed butter and concrete; I've been mixing from a tiny log of wood, even though I was born in Belgrade, I've been a peasant child; I've bathed corn; I know I've done all the work, and I've never been ashamed of it. I've been making fair bread since I was 15; in the 15th year I started running my uncle's bar, Mr. Markovic, since then; I've worked abroad, hard and easier physical affairs -- all sorts of things. I was never a criminal, I was one of the best law school students in Belgrade, one of the best students. You're gonna tell me what I took. Look where your president lives and where you live, in the villas of Dedinj, look at your jeeps, and you accuse me of my south. Is that your argument? Is that why you're accusing me? Because I don't have enough carpets yet? I couldn't get a car any other way, but in the most honest, most honorable way. And by the way, you forget that before that I ran a company, Mr. Markovic; in my hate and my lies, because I told you the truth, you've gone too far to know what to talk about -- that company was the most successful, one of the strongest sports collectives in Belgrade, when you're talking about it. All this hatred you pour, all the hatred you show, you show it only because I told the truth; and all that hatred is because I accidentally came to that truth; but it's true. It can hurt as much as you want, and that's why your fraud with the people, as you are the opposition, won't go away. I am an honest and honest man, much more honest and honest than you, and I will never allow you to speak to the honorable Serbian radicals of the most honorable people; for unlike you, these people have not brought people into the basements and forced them to go with JUL to the coalition, like you in Jagodina (so now you give them up), but we have always spoken to the honorable, honest and correct ways and to the citizens of Serbia what our political attitude is and what our political relationship is. That's what we're different about, and because of all these differences, I'm proud of both the SRS and all the Serbian radicals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14962	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, and next reported is MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14963	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is more than clear that today's parliamentary majority initiative to replace the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not about the president's personality, but about the moves that Mr. Martians has been making all these months. It's clearly another matter, which is, to say the least, a deal with former coalition partners. So, the shootout between the rest of DOS and the DSS. The real questions are: why is there a reckoning and what is the cause for such a thing? Of course, it has already been mentioned here that there have been programming, or conceptual differences that now require the withdrawal of the president of the Martians. But what kind of programming differences are these; that the Democratic Party of Serbia did not want to support certain legal solutions that it did not consider to be good enough. I'm one of the people who participated in the creation of a coalition agreement, along with the vice president of the DSS, Mr. Shami. There is no provision in that agreement in any single member that any coalition partner is obliged to support a legislative proposal that he disagrees with. There were clauses in which we were all obliged to support certain human resources that belonged to a particular political group. So it's the right truth about how he left a certain political concept. On the other hand, what's much more serious than one, so to speak, to a simple pre-election coalition agreement, because coalitions exist and coalitions differ -- today you can be in a coalition with one political group, tomorrow, by certain legal solutions or by a certain programming similarity, with another political group. The main problem is the non-compliance of the DSS to a kind of terror, to a kind of predisposition of the executive authority. What do I mean by that? You have one simple fact: that the executive authority, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is at this point the Republic Parliament is too much of a burden - that it is an excess. You have a situation in which the government of the Republic of Serbia's policies are dogmatised, in the same way that during Mirko Marjanovic and while Slobodan Milosevic managed Serbia, national and state interests have dogmatised. Now we have another situation: to dogmatize the path to reform. It is claimed that the path the government of the Republic of Serbia has plotted, the only possible way to reform and the only possible travellers. If we don't go that way, we'll end up in Iraq, Iran and the Far East. Is that right, gentlemen? Yes, it is in the revolutionary consciousness of those who are drunk with power; those who have transferred the Jacobish convention to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; those who would like their political opponents to see the guillotines here. Those who are drunk with authority, those who would love (and this time the DSS MPs) to see without a head, who like to threaten from this pay phone - not only the DSS, who see each of their political opponents in the way that the Jacobites saw it: either you are with us or you end up on the guillotine. I've taken seriously the threat from this pay phone. There is no other option, no other alternative power in Serbia, which, sooner or later, can be achieved by the majority of parliament at this time. So in one, very perfidious and mimicred, a way of saying what happened in the Irig municipality, which is not telling the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, in doing so, I apologize to the SPS MPs, I don't think anything bad about anything that has been done so far about their performances on local self-governments, to see who supports who in Backo Palanca; who is supported in Raska; who is supported in the Shop; who is supported by whom in the Caves? (from the hall - where is it) It is in Serbia, if you still know what Serbia is and what our country is. That's the real truth about who supports who. It's something else entirely. The key conceptal difference between the DSS and the rest of what he dares to call himself DOS is the next DSS does not want to accept that the government makes the Republic of Serbia a Balkan Colombia, with the spray of organised crime and political oligarchy. It's a key thing. The DSS sees Serbia in one single possible way -- as a developed European country, with a regulated legal system, with a market economy. Those who think Serbia is a place together with banana republics; that Serbia is a kind of protectorate that can do whatever it wants; in which there is no parliamentary control, in which the Constitution and laws are not respected; who want to make, as I said, Balkan Colombia of our country -- these people have the biggest opponents in the DSS. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's not lie: the basic problem is in what all polls and all public opinion research show. 27% of the support of the electoral body, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, belongs to the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14964	The word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic, and then by MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14965	The respected presidency, fellow MPs, would logically be that the request for the removal of the president of the National Assembly that we are discussing today followed as a direct consequence of the responsibility of one of the DOS leaders for Serbia's overall poor condition and for the work of the Assembly, which is not the case at this time. It is about the conflict of parties within the DOS coalition over publicly stated claims of irregularities and theft when voting the labour law in principle. This issue was to be resolved within the DOS, not to be addressed by the Serbian Parliament. In Serbia, life is getting harder and harder. Production's almost gone. Unemployment is rising, prices are also rising, crime and corruption are present. A number of disintegration processes have been opened, legal and physical violence against DOS non-insectants is being applied. Other bad things happen. On all these negative phenomena and processes DOS shut up, doing nothing. It's all under the reform company and in the name of reform. It's all in the name of the people, but how things are and without the people, because it's hard for the people to endure the consequences of DOS policy. However, when it comes to DOS relations: mutual accusations, conflicts, calculations, when the DOS image is violated, then responds immediately -- assembly work is interrupted, and human and party issues become the most important state issues. This also confirms the DOS request to replace the president of the assembly, also the DOS candidate, in the middle of a debate on the Labour Law, and one otherwise bad law, but which DOS claimed to be one of the most important laws to be passed as soon as possible. How true those words were, they show yesterday’s and today’s dealings with human affairs and internal disputes. It would be logical for the president of the National Assembly to be removed because of the poor laws adopted by the Assembly and the devastating consequences of these laws among Serbian citizens. For example, tax laws establishing a number of tax obligations for citizens have been adopted - practically taxing everything other than air. The rights of unemployed persons and those who lose their jobs have been reduced, and the Labour Act, whose debate has been suspended, reduces the rights of those who work. The information law has been abolished. Serbia is placed under the media control of DOS. You can't read directly, see, anything that isn't in DOS policy or events in Kosovo and Metohija, about the terror of Albanian terrorists, about the 15-hour transfer of the Skender escape monument -- or anything else that is against DOS politics. The assembly has selected a large number of judges from the DOS party lists. The advantage was given to party criteria compared to professional ones. A party judiciary is being created. At the same time, a number of judges were replaced with a media hack because they were tried by law or because they refused to accept orders to operate according to DOS criteria. It would also be logical for the president of the National Assembly to be removed because of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which has been changed twice, to two extraordinary sessions. Not only are the citizens' money spent needlessly for these extraordinary sessions but the amendments to the Rules of Procedure have violated the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the rights of MPs. The essence of the changes, of course, were, it was -- it made it impossible for the opposition to step into the assembly and meet the public and citizens of Serbia with DOS policy. Logically, too, whether the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was removed and because of what the Assembly did not discuss with the will of the chairman or the will of the assembly's majority. The assembly did not discuss the SPS request to form a survey board, which would determine all the circumstances related to the arrest and kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic and, of course, the responsibility of the persons who did so. Slobodan Milosevic was kidnapped and extradited to the illegal UN tribunal, based on an unconstitutional decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Assembly is silent about it. The assembly neither discussed the situation in Kosovo nor Metohija in the evening of November's elections. The assembly did not confirm its position expressed through two adopted documents in May; that elections in Kosovo and Metohija should not be organised until all provisions of Resolution 1244 have been complied with, peace, security, the return of expelled persons, murderers, etc. The assembly did not discuss this through the will of the majority, through the will of the DOS. The assembly did not elect judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia either. You know why. Not only would it confirm the unconstitutional nature of the adopted laws, but they would fall into water and a number of regulations, which are over 100, based on which the government of the Republic of Serbia is managing the country. The assembly did not discuss local theft in local self-government and the introduction of forced administrations in, now, 22 municipalities. What Serbian citizens think of it has shown local elections since 4 November, and the trust SPStada received. It would be logical for the president of the National Assembly to be removed. It's logical, but not according to DOS criteria. The request for the replacement of the National Assembly president came from the DOS, but as a result of the intra-DOS account, and across the back of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is confirmed by the applicant himself. The argument found that the president of the National Assembly " has repeatedly violated the DOS coalition agreement". If he has done so many times in the congregation, why has the request for resolution just now arrived? What were you waiting for? Why was that kept quiet? So the president of the assembly worked badly, violated the coalition agreement, but was forgiven until the moment when it became a problem and a danger to the DOS. Then he should, of course, rescind it. It is also noted that it has violated the role of the president of the National Assembly and thus lost the confidence of DOS MPs. It is clear that the president of the National Assembly is identified from the DOS Politbiroom and that he is the first among the same. There is no place for anyone but DOS; neither for the citizens of Serbia nor for their interests. I must say that this event, this initiative, best shows how democracy is understood and applied within DOS. It was only when the DOS partners found irregularity and theft in the vote of one law, when it was seen to be bad for the DOS, because it shows it in a light that is unknown to the public, so when the image of the DOS is compromised, the procedure for the removal of the president of the Assembly is in motion. The intention is clear - to raise the public's attention and attention from the bad law and to direct the stealing in a different direction. Since the transfer request has only an intra-party character, it represents a conflict within DOS, we Socialists will not be part of this story. We don't want to get involved in it. DOS is our political opponent of all parties within DOS for us socialists are the same. If the request had come because of the poor work of DOS, we would have supported it. If it were a law of importance for Serbia, for the citizens, for their better lives -- we would, in any case, support it. Since it's a calculation within DOS, let's make DOS taste the porridge it created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14966	Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14967	Dear Chairman, please establish a quorum based on Article 95. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14968	National MP Srdjan Petrovic asked us to determine the existence of a quorum. Please approach the quorum determination. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a break for 30 minutes. [[After a break.]] I'm guessing we have a quorum. People's MP Petar Petrovic (the ambassador has given up) came forward. ) National MP Milan Radulović (not present. ) The People's MP Branislav Blažić (not present. ) (Employer Miroljub Veljkovic is asking for a word. ) The Rules of Procedure regulate how they participate in the debate, you have handed over the list now, but cannot get the word of a man who did not answer the word. There is a word from MP Zoran Nikolic (not present). He has the word National MP Zivko Selaković (not present). He has the word National MP Marko Jaksic (not present). There is a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14970	Dear People's MPs, in recent days, we have witnessed an unprecedented scandal, an unprecedented farce and, you can say, an unprecedented insolence in the Serbian Parliament. At first, we witnessed the theft of the votes of the MPs during the vote on the Labour Law. And now here we're distracting the public (even this Mr. Novakovic, who is now throwing) some videos -- and this is one video, this is another version. I invite Mr. Novakovic, if he's an honorable man, to come out here and say, "I was in the assembly and I voted," or I was in Athens. Then we attended the unknowing attempt of a part of the DOS to gain cheap political points, politics: I will -- I will not, I will -- and as a finale, we have this farce about the shift of the President of the Assembly, the Martian. We are also witnessing the petty political trade of these small minor strangers, who are using this situation. Here, look at this gentleman in front of me (shows Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic), he has already sat down at the ministerial post, it is probably the personnel reinforcement of the new DOS, or the government of Zoran Djindjic. In one word, we are witnessing the breaking of a failed government. In the light of the request to replace the Martians, it is said to be changed for two reasons. First, because he does not respect the DOS coalition agreement. I answer briefly - should the President of the Assembly respect political arrangements or should he lead the country's largest legislative body? Secondly, it is being replaced because it protects (it is shown in reason) the party interests of the DSS. I also answer briefly because of the time you gave us - so did we, the Serbian Radicals, for months have not warned that Mr. Marsicanin was biased in the meetings of this assembly, except that his bias did not disturb Cedomir Jovanovic, who was fiercely defending him from this pay phone when he was biased, normally, in favour of the entire DOS coalition, etc. When Mr. Martian first acted as the real president of the assembly and wouldn't let himself steal votes, we're changing him. And now something very short on candidate for the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, Mrs. Natasi Micic. This proposal by Ceda Jovanovic, I can tell you with responsibility, received Serbia with astonishment. With full respect, however, it is clear to Zoran Djindjic that she does not have the capacity to lead the most legislative body in the country. Perhaps some smaller meat community, but to lead the Serbian Parliament! However, since I am running out of time, there are two basic reasons -- one is that she is a member of the Civil League of Serbia: the other is that Zoran Djindjic needs chaos in this assembly, because he is mainly ruling regulations and is just about to rule regulations. He doesn't need the Assembly. Ambassador Marko Jaksic is asking for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14971	I called you Mr. Jaksic, indeed, there are other MPs who were not there when I called them. I can't apply two different arches. You're not in order, Mr. Jaksic. Mr. Jaksic, MP Dragan Tomic is coming. I can't understand, if you were there when I called you, why didn't you go out for a pay phone? Are you imputing to me that I have denied you the right to speak? That's not true. Come on, gentlemen, I'm really asking you to keep this session normal, I have no interest in denying anyone's word. But indeed, the Messenger whom I call and do not go out for a pay phone, I do not deny the word, he has denied himself. (Employer Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Where does it say you're not giving him your word?) Mr. Nikolic, do you really think it should be written? The word is given by MP Dragan Tomic (not present). The next registered MP, Dragisa Djokovic (not present). ) (The People's MP Marko Jaksic is asking for a word. Mr. Jaksic, if you're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, go ahead. Marko Jaksic, from the O.R., it's my turn. It's impossible to run the congregation like that, people, it's not in my interest to deny anyone the word, but we have to work normally. Mr. Dejan Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14972	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has always been a practice so far, that here many are calling for unwritten rules that apply in parliamentary life, so let's call ourselves, and see if you respect them. Of course you won't, and it won't be the first time, written or unwritten, but well, there'll be more to that. It has been a practice so far that when one of the MPs came out for some reason and he wasn't there, he went back to the O.R. to get his word. It's been a practice so far. I don't see that there's any reason for us to break that practice and procedure at this point, unless you care to hide from the public what you can't hide, to hide your shame from the public. Then you will try, surely, to keep this debate as short as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14973	He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14974	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a motionor, I am pleased to listen to the course of this debate, and I will be pleased to hear any MP who is willing to participate in this debate correctly. If you think you're messing with us, as you did yesterday, don't expect us to support you in that. Make up your mind - whether you participate in this debate or not. Since you were not in the O.R. when you were called, you cannot use the right of an MP who follows the debate and attends the O.R. Take advantage of your time; but you are subject to the same rules that applied to all other MPs. Mr. Risticevic didn't get the word once, since he wasn't in the O.R. when he was called. So that goes for you, Mr. Jaksic, as well as for everyone else. The time of debate has been determined by the Rules of Procedure and that time can be used by other DSS MPs, but you can't, because you didn't want to take part in the debate [[Marco Jaksic: I have the right to replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14975	Guys, this is the Assembly. Let's act normal. It is not disputed that a man named has the right to a replica, but he cannot go out for a pay phone when he thinks of it. Before that, Mr Nikolic, before Mr Jaksic, whose right to the replica is not disputed, appeared. Go ahead and replicate, but don't act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14976	Ladies and gentlemen, I know Mr. Jovanovic is in a hurry, he wants this to go as fast as possible. However, there is an old rule -- slowly, Mr. Jovanovic, we still have time -- I have the right to my discussion. I don't think there's any point in anyone stopping me. For these reasons, and for these initiatives, I must say here, it is not right, it is not correct to take a word from one MP. Why isn't it correct? It is not correct because we have had the opportunity to see how it is literally stolen publicly, to see that the MP who is in Thessaloniki votes in this assembly, and the MP who is nearby, has no right to vote. Have Mr. Novakovic come out and say if he voted or didn't vote that day. We all know that there has been an election theft, we all know that we caught a thief in the theft itself, we all know that Mr. Jovanovic was so boldly, cut off, in front of the cameras, publicly and loudly said that Mr. Novakovic was there. It is the future of Serbia, which needs to lead Serbia -- clearly, loudly, with lies to the end. There's an old Serbian proverb that says, "No one as big as a Turk doesn't lie. "I think I see some here who lie more and bigger than the Turks. But what's the point of the whole story here? The point of the whole story is neither Mr. Martian nor I, the problem is a coup against this congregation. Mr. Djindjic, with the help of his spokesman, the hero laughs, with the help of two of his jeeps, wants to, in fact, that same authority he made in the government to make in this assembly. That's the whole point of the story. The point of the whole story is to prevent an election that, we all know, should be in the spring. That's the point, actually. We have listened here to the trial not of Mr. Martian, but of Mr. Kostunica. Mr. Jovanovic, I got the impression, asked for the resignation of the president of the SRJ. So many heroes were angry, and he was angry, and he cried so much, and I thought, for God's sake, the Army would have to resign, he'd have to, as he went on hard. I think that's kind of the main point of the story. If it wasn't for Mr. Kostunica, you wouldn't be here. Under his name, you've become an MP. Literally, half of us in DOS wouldn't be here in this assembly, and that's clear and familiar to all of us. What's the point of the whole story now? A deal is being made with Montenegro, elections should be discussed and we need to strike in order to extend the elections for the next three years. That's the point of the story; neither is Mr. Marsican what he did wrong; nor are the elections in Kosovo itself. I admit publicly and loudly - I worked and was against the elections themselves in Kosovo. (President: Mr. Jaksic, time. ) But I don't see that Mr Jovanovic has been much for Kosovo, nor has Zoran Djindjic called much on Serbs in Kosovo to go to elections. Believe me, if the party hadn't heard Mr. Jovanovic's attacks on me and automatically, the booze would have changed its mind. As soon as Mr. Jovanovic attacked me, people realized there was no need to change me. (President: Mr. Jaksic, time, you've been talking for a minute longer. ) The point of the whole story is that Zoran Djindjic is holding everything in his hands: funds, government, police, courts. What else is there? There's still time for the Assembly to be taken over here. That's the whole point of the story. For these reasons and for these initiatives, I think we've misdirected this debate. It's not right, and I don't think there's any way to determine. (President: Mr. Jaksic, time. Please finish. You've been talking for almost two minutes longer. () In the very end, we have the opportunity to see what our future is like. Did we change the crime until yesterday or until now? Are we going with the jeeps? (President: Mr. Jaksic, speak for more than five minutes. Please finish. ....... from the time of Marko Milosevic, I think they only have another name in each other's head of Parliament. Is that what DOS was fighting for? Is that what it is that a man who literally doesn't have a day's work, that literally... Mr. Jaksic, you're putting me in a position to... I thank you. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14977	The word is Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that after this indignity, we have a draft labour law waiting for us. I'd ask you to work harder, not to leave the O.R., to maintain the quorum so that we can work all the way. (Alexander Radosavljevic: To the eggs. That's your education, young fellow. But you can't deny any MP the right to speak, even if he wasn't in an O.R. at a time when he was alive. The parliamentary group has a certain time to debate in principle. The MP's group has sent you a list, has the right to change it ad hoc. I told you, Mr. Sabic, that not at that time would be said by Ambassador Blažić, but Mr. Veljkovic and you should respect it; or to find me a provision by which the Rules of Procedure cannot happen; or to find the provision of the Rules of Procedure by which we would obey Mr. Jovanovic's order, that this MP no longer has the right to speak at all if he was not in the hall at the time of his appointment. With DOS coming to power, much has changed in this House. The Rules of Procedure are consummated, Members' rights are narrowed down to maximum. You are now sitting in that chair for half an hour and already narrowing down what has already been narrowed enough. So please don't step on the Rules of Procedure. The MPs of the SRS will speak in order that they have reported, if they are there. After half an hour, we were ready to continue the session, and we waited another hour for you to make amends. Now you're asking us to sit in the O.R. and wait for you to count to 126. Have an understanding for each other. One more thing, you haven't called an Arsic MP at all. Now I should say that you no longer have the right to hold a session of the Assembly, because you skipped one of the SRS MPs. Mistakes happen. So please, all the MPs of the SRS will get their word or we'll make a scandal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14979	There's no reason, Mr. Nikolic, to make a scandal. First of all, if you've already advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you should have pointed out to me which provision of the Rules of Procedure I violated. (Tomislav Nikolic: Article 89) That's not true. We can read it together, and we'll find out I didn't hurt her. But independent of that, the main remark was to deny someone the right to speak. I didn't call Mr. Arsic because he didn't get his turn. In fact, Mr. Alexander Vukitch asked for a change in time. (Tomislav Nikolic: How could you Blazic before Arsic? Because it's on the list that I got so listed. I have a list, we can compare it. (Tomislav Nikolic: What does it say under number one? ) See for yourself the list. I'm using the list I got. See for yourself what you have submitted as a list of debaters. The wolf made a replacement with Arsic and that replacement was made. That's how Mr. Wolf got the word. Mr. Arsic will get the word. As for the possibility that an MP can speak whenever he thinks he can go into town, come back and look for a word, I don't see what the Rules of Procedure is based on, and I think you're imputing me to take anyone's word away. You want to vote whether the provision of Article 89(4) has been violated. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm really trying, Mr. Nikolic, in a rather painful situation. The word has a folk MP Dragisa Djokovic, followed by Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14980	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd start with the words of a great thinker who says - I don't agree with what you think, but I'll fight to the end to say what you think. Mr. Shabic, I know you're in a very awkward position, you're in a difficult situation, and please allow all the registered speakers to receive a word. The other thinker said - the merchant lies to you with laughter, the woman lies to all the tears by diving, no one lies big to the Turk. Today these gradations and these combinations could get some other entities in that comparison. So don't get upset, don't eat. This is where you know who's lying and who's lying and who's stealing. Our superior from Thessaloniki, this handsome man, reminds this gentleman that it is his duty to go before this congregation, to honor and to say with honor: how he flew it; how he rode these celestial spaces and how he arrived; let the citizens of Serbia see it. Unfortunately, this gentleman is the mayor of Novi Sad, the capital or the first city of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. However, it may not be a shame to know what kind of speaker the Vojvodina has; then it is even more embarrassing. I just didn't come out here to be a lawyer or to defend Mr. Dragan the Martian. We have nothing to defend him from, and we haven't heard a single argument here from anyone who was a proprietor or a transferor. I know that Mr. Mark Jaksic's transfer coordination centre request came from Brussels; I don't know where this request came from, but we'll find out. So I'm going to tell you that simply instead of being quiet, you nod to your heads, come out, gentlemen, say the arguments, tell the facts. Don't be nervous, don't be impatient, just the facts don't add up. I'll tell you what's the problem here, what the Assembly did and what it was supposed to do. Some jobs have been done by the government. The resolution proposed by the Government to the National Assembly No. 10-3852/2001 of 4 May 2001 and the Declaration on Kosovo is signed by Zoran Djindjic magnificently and, among other things, says - the additional disturbance of citizens has introduced the opening of customs checkpoints at the administrative border of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija and the rest of the Republic of Serbia. This is another act that violates Resolution 1244 by UNMIK's administration in the AP Kosovo and Metohija, creating an artificial economic barrier between the AP of Kosovo and Metohija and the rest of the Republic of Serbia. It goes on to say -- we are giving full support to citizens' resistance to these harsh procedures that violate Yugoslav customs regulations and tax regulations of the Republic of Serbia. A particular problem is the creation of a legal framework for Kosovo's temporary self-government. The basic text made in UNMIK does not provide a elemental guarantee of the protection of the rights of national and ethnic communities. Albanian representatives in the task force are asking for more than that and pressured international experts. The declaration the Serbian government also proposed to this assembly for adoption, and we adopted it on 31 May, says -- the competent state authorities need to give co-operation with UNMIK and the OSCE regarding the consistent and comprehensive implementation of Security Council Resolution 1244 and this declaration. You know what declaration I'm talking about. Furthermore, the government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to lead a policy of strengthening Kosovo and Metohija's ties with other parts of Serbia in order to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in line with that resolution. In particular, it points to the active government... (Dragisa Popovic, from the scene: What is the dispute? I'll tell you, sir, you don't care about Kosovo. You took three billion marks or dollars at the Paris Club to write off your debt. It goes on to say -- especially to the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the areas of education, health, traffic, trade, finance, culture and state administration; and what is controversial, the government is asked to submit regular monthly reports to the relevant assembly committees on Kosovo and Metohija and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done. I haven't seen a single report, nor has any committee in charge seen it. That's what's controversial and what's painful for you. It doesn't affect you, you want to decomposition through the change in Serbia, break it down, rip it apart as you wanted. As for anti-camping in Kosovo and Metohija, a boy who doesn't have a day of work, the chief defender of the labour law, but I don't know where he was doing it and what he was doing, assured us that the Democratic Party of Serbia led the anti-campion process. If the Democratic Party of Serbia had led the anti-campion campaign, you know what percentage of votes would have: zero, you're so popular and so much to gain. The people won't vote for your candidates. Your biggest antiquity was your list, your Rada Radical and your company. That's your biggest anti-reclave. The people of Kosovo Mitrovica will not vote for your candidate who says -- the people of Kosovo Mitrovica is criminalised. Is there anyone normal in this country who can tell all the citizens of one city that they're being criminalized? It's your biggest antiquity, your problem, it's your situation. I don't know what or how you did it. You know who voted for yours as well. In your campaign came MPs of a party I don't want to mention at all, so in the Serbian village of Suvo Grlo they argued with peasants; they said Serbia is a poor country, that it can't help them anymore, but they have to go to elections, so Pristina will give pensions, salaries and everything else. The way Pristina gives, you can tell. Therefore, gentlemen, you can do whatever you want. You can't go as far as you want. Nobody burns till dawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14981	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14982	In order not to be later, the livers were fighting over the mother-in-law, that boss of Hekerup's MP group you mentioned, that Radu, that's what you said to the radical, we chased that bastard out of the party two years ago, and now he's in the Demochrist Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14983	The word has a People's MP, Bozidar Vujic, and the following is a registered MP, Stevan Z. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14984	Ceda Jovanovic says there are two motives that drove the DOS to seek the removal of the Martians, also from the DOS. He explained the DOS's detailed motivation, elaborated and we understood then from the Serbian Radical Party how your pots are pounded on the same stove - NATO stove. The third motive of the Chedo-DS was apparently caught in the theft. The spirit of Thessaloniki has been released. By accepting that fact and hiding it, the DOS decided that lies and theft would be a measure of value, and they found satellites from the rest of the DOS. But, behold, miracles, they found true lovers in the opposition party, who, as an opposition, votes to you from DOS and government and budget. Well, good partners are found - according to the saint and the troupe. This today, apparently, is an act of force, a demonstration in this way depicted: arguments of force over force of argument. We Serbian radicals, through our request of October 22nd, presented all the force of the arguments for the removal of the president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14985	Mr. Guduric, here you go, and after Stevan G. Guduric, the word has been made by MP Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the first time I've come to the test for this pay phone to keep my mouth shut because I think that the way that you in DOS are stealing from each other, that's where we in the opposition can't add God knows what. It's your best election campaign for future time. They talked about this pay phone today, and even before, how someone had destroyed your business before you; they destroyed it by imposing sanctions, so when it wasn't enough, then your friends bombed it; so when it wasn't enough, then you'd sell it to one-party commissions. Thus, the tender commission for the sale of Beocinski cement factories, consisting of Šumarac, Cvetkovic, Djukić or all together, has a common denominator - Zoran Djindjic, who said in May after his visit to Paris, that the Beocinska cement factory was sold to Lafarža; so you have selected the consulting houses accordingly, which will listen to the tasks that you otherwise want to carry out. Also, you've given great experts to run the Agency, and someone has said these days that they're all smart professionals, experts; the only flaw they have so many years that they haven't been able to shave yet, so we'll look like we'll be in a situation in Serbia that the balavanders, who still don't know how to wipe their noses and what mom leads across the street...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14987	Mr. Gooduric, take care of what words you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14988	There's no other way to say that. My Boba is 11 years old and he's a balavander, and they have a little bit more, so they fall for it. They're going to sell out what they've never created in person. Go to the Agency and see what good experts look like. As for this, why there is no Constitutional Court in Serbia, which would be the gato. The constitution is not respected, it is politically decided who will go to which court and who will be tried. We heard Mr. Jovanovic say -- a political decision to send there and there. That flag that you're missing at Isriver, when they put out the price it costs, there's only one problem with that -- you won't be the authority to pay that price you deserve. Cheda used to say here that he was bitterly opposed to his enemies, and I thought we were political insolent, at least until we were in opposition. It turns out that Chad's position, in fact, is the DOS's position, because prisons are full of political opponents. So, then we have to talk about some bitter enemies; you just have to know that no one's burned until dawn and that the situation can change because we heard one more thing, another evening than Mr. Marsican: if Mr. Batic confessed, he would be where those who confess will be. She's closest to Mitrovica, and maybe she's got some closer apps. I just don't know how you think you're very good at introducing yourself to Serbia; when a few days ago this pay phone was a row where two goats crashed, the attitude of DOS forces showed Serbia and what it really was. I'm sorry, it's folk talk, and it was Mr. Chad you and Mr. Michael, since you were here explaining who was introducing crisis headquarters, who was going in, which is and how. What's DOS interest? Is that what someone said -- hand in someone else's pocket; officers who play with MP cards and play messengers? Maybe Mr. Janjic's famous cat was doing it too; whether a cat ate a tongue or stole a card out of his pocket, I don't know, someone has to make it clear. So it's possible that this cat is guilty in this whole situation. As for who in the coalition, thank you very much, we do not need any of you; and the 19th DOS member at this time (Cado, listen to who your 19th member is) that was very clear, and only some may not have noticed, it is the Party of Serbian Unity, because only the position of the vote for the government's election. I don't know how else to explain it, they might now be an extraordinary 18th place, because these guys are about to drive them out. The people on November 4th, at that first training, said how much they believed in you. You're worth a third, and maybe not that much. This percentage is very small to wag and boss Serbia and it can't last long; you can try what it all looks like, that only then the price is very high at the end of the story. You were saying that the Labour Act is the most important thing, the key thing, without it being in the world, and it turns out that it's much more important than kicking Mr. Martian, while the law doesn't matter, it can come on the agenda in a few days. Then Chad gave us a letter as to how all this was to end, not to go to lunch; a man had a throat, went to wash it, and one two or three hours were gone. When you ask us to sit here, then, sir, stick yourself there and you sit with us; when you're looking for someone not to go to lunch, and yours are careful, so they didn't give the quorum, they all went to lunch together. And just one more thing in the end, you were talking in the election campaign, and not only then, as you have saved all the reform laws, only to win power and at the same time adopt them, and you only forgot that one of your coalition partners, gentlemen in the DOS, had prepared regulations at the same time that will rule, and you and the laws are not interested in him at all -- Mr Djindjic. So you're going to have to end this situation on your own, that's your house, DOS, there's 176, and inside you do whatever you want; so when you're done with that story, then you're going to sit down with us here and work on it, but anyway, I don't think it's going to take long.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14989	Here you go, Mr. Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14990	I will not answer to the gentleman who warned me, but I will thank him, because after a month and a half after this democratic Rules of Procedure, the MP gets a chance to say something. Gentlemen, I don't know if you are aware that the fate of this parliament and this state is in the hands of the minority union of Serbia -- a minority, I did not make a mistake -- which has 0.0000000004% of the votes in Serbia. To take up a key portfolio in the federal state, the foreign minister, as well as the function of the Serbian parliament's president. In a few days you're packing up a sick Mr. Milutinovic in The Hague: who should be our president of the state. Is there anyone in this room who would accept such a thing? (from the O.R.) I realize it can be accepted by the midwives and everyone else who doesn't know what's going on in this assembly, but no one is normal. Who supports it? This is supported by the rest of the DOS, which blindly executes the orders of the criminalised government and the party of the sproof JUL. I'm sorry, maybe I was wrong, maybe I offended JUL; these are worse than JUL. Who still supports DOS: 15 parties whose leaders do not have membership. It is one man, one bow, one purse, and one voice; such 15 parties remain in DOS. Is that supposed to lead Serbia? (Marian Risticevic, from the scene: A mobile? Taliban, calm down. In this whole voice store of yours, in these two nights that might be fatal to Serbia, it was all in play. [[Laughter]] You offered parties for a couple of votes all and all: one that is recognizable by the bagger, so they don't get it in Serbia, you gave the jeep. (There is no Mr. Chad, he said he gave the jeep to a gentleman who is recognizable by the bagger, to confirm his story), to those JULs you handed over to the destruction of 10 criminal records and you suffer from amnesia while their voices need you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14991	Time, Mr. Lamb.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14992	I'm done. The gentleman, who sits in the fifth row, is not aware of - what can challenge his criminal behaviour, and represents the wonderful citizens of Novi Sad, 500-600 thousand of them; he insists on coming here and saying that during the vote he was in Thessaloniki -- that this crisis could lead Serbia not into a parliamentary crisis, but into a civil war. (President: Time.) Who will rule this Serbia, you 120 we cannot catch in the hallway. You are a disgrace to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14993	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14994	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the chairman, before I begin, to give the word to Mr. Radulovic and Tomic after me, because they were on the lists and have the right to speak, and they were before me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14995	I'll explain later, and you'll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14996	Your wits, sir, keep it to Thessalonica, don't do it, I didn't throw it to you, you know. You have one advantage over us at all, and I will never deny it to you. You gentlemen can do to us what moral brakes don't allow us to do to you. That should be clear to you. When we came to the Assembly, your mouth was full of democracy, transparency and everything else, finally, what was agreed in the DOS and what we promised the citizens of Serbia. [[Applause DSS]] The first time we pointed out that some of it didn't come true, the first time we dared to criticize the government, I guess there was a lot of it in this society and in this country untouchable, that's when it came to the wallpaper of the DSS. Mr. Martian here is the least important. That's why I won't mention it or defend it. He was defended by all that he had done behind this chair behind me, to which he made a fine point in his presentation to this congregation. This whole farce, and I have to call her that, it just came out because the DSS was intruding. Why was she in the way? I'll tell you in the open, ma'am. She was upset because she was telling Serbian citizens the truth. Serbian citizens will learn the truth, have met some, some are getting to know it, and be assured that soon everyone will know it. This will be very bad for you: when someone calls for democracy and votes from Thessaloniki; whose minister four times makes a proposal to the judicial board to elect a man from the Federal Election Commission that stole the election, which is a fact. There's no Mr. Minister, he's out in time. Four times, the same man was proposed, although it was agreed that such would not be proposed. Finally, Mr. Jovanovic, you ask Mr. Batic for details, he is familiar. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the scene: I apologize. Please, I'm sorry. So, when the fourth time a man comes and Mr. Minister gets the question whether he proposes for the fourth time because he became a member of the DHSS in the meantime, then the minister withdraws the proposal. No comment required. That was, gentlemen and ladies, on the Justice Committee. When we pointed out this, when we pointed out certain actions of the interior minister, when we criticised the minister who said he was allowed to have everything and everything in Serbia, and we don't want Serbia to have everything and everything, then we came to the wallpaper and then you chose Mr. Marsican as the first one. I'm talking to those, and I think that's the way most people have a conscience. I'm talking to them. Those who came to this assembly for what they were sent to Serbia's citizens for. I don't know what you wanted with this other guy, except to attack the DSS. Beware, "The fortress is a fruit of wonder, do not break it, but break the teeth." Be careful, gentlemen, don't let that happen to you. I'll tell you why you still have trouble with the DSS. We're getting closer to the election, and your skin is creeping out from the thought of the election. That bothers you, gentlemen. Gentlemen, we have made it clear and loud why we want this unfortunate law of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It's a necessity, it's an iconic, and that unfortunate co-operation is there, we can't avoid it. What will the law bring? It will bring exactly what Mr. Martian told us, and in order not to repeat it, I will only have to repeat it once more: It will bring that you will not be able to manipulate The Hague tribunal and you will get it to be protected, as much as possible, by every Yugoslav citizen, and I guess that's our first goal. We do not aim to sell Serbia for cheap money, to stay in power and create financial oligarchy You may object as much as you like, but you create that oligarchy or you've already created it. [[elevator in the O.R.]] Second thing, gentlemen, you've shown and continued your old practice. Let me remind you, our criticism was very sharp when we talked about what happened. the rule of law in the former regime. Look at the number of regulations you've made, gentlemen. The regulations do not rule. It's governed by laws. The laws rule! You have once again begun to rule the regulations, and that is exactly what you want to eliminate from the congregation what is bothering you, and then you will not need a regulation. The reason for everything was something we had in the near past, unfortunately, something called an election theft. You gentlemen tried to convince us that there was a vote from Thessaloniki. That's, I guess, that transparent democracy. Several MPs asked Mr. Novakovic to make it clear to us here and loudly whether he was or wasn't. We've been here ten months, ladies and gentlemen, and we know each other very well. Of course, with exceptions to those who came today to fulfill their civic duty to press a button, and they are unknown, so we saw them first or second time outside the congregation hall. So these are the reasons. You went on, and you explained how the gentleman came and left, and then you saw that he wasn't on the plane and you gave us a bunch of other reasons here. We haven't heard from Mr. Novakovic since if he was here or if he voted. That's what I'd really like to hear. Otherwise, I know Mr. Novakovic, he really wasn't here that day. As much as you wanted to make progress in this Serbia, you can also see by the unfortunate choice of the President of the Great Court of Commerce, a very important function when considering that we are being followed by tenders, liquidations, bankruptcys. Gentlemen, there's a lot of very big money in the past regime. That's a fact. Mrs Vasilic was recommended by the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia's Justice Committee, which we all have chosen together. It is recommended with words - she is the most professional man and invited to this function. The colleagues on the judicial board, who know the trade, were for her choice. The Democratic Party has prevented it and I will tell you the argument, and you appreciate how serious it is: it would not be convenient, because this judge would irritate the judges, and what leaving the court said - I will return to the big door. Well, a man of that type in the profession should go back to the big door. She's not going to have a baby. So that was why we didn't get it for the President of the Court of Commerce. Now I guess it's gonna be someone else, who's gonna throw the waist in the shade, so they're gonna comply with regulations or oral regulations, not to tell the orders. Finally, in the end, I can only tell you one more thing, you didn't initially understand the two things she was saying and saying to the Democratic Party of Serbia -- that we are really in order to keep what we promised and that, indeed, by entering DOS as a coalition, we have maximumly determined ourselves not to change anything in our programme. I guess you didn't learn from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14997	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. (In the meantime, MP Jovanovic is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Budishin, if you would like to listen to me, I will be very brief and I will try not to challenge your dissatisfaction with our political decision to deny our support, but to remind you that DOS MPs and the Democratic Party in this assembly have passed a law that I hope forever, at least, depolitises the area of justice in this country. That and that segment detailing the choice of each president of the court, including the President of the Supreme Court. Your argument is chromium and it does not even stand on the subject of the mentioned judge, who was a member of the Federal Election Commission, because you are an MP for the party that has proposed and appointed the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as deputy secretary of the Federal Election Commission. Try without anything personal in this process of ours to recognize what really stands in it, it is our clear intention to deny our support to the representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia as President of the Republic of Serbia, with the explanation that I have given today, which is still standing and which speaks of the great differences between our two parties, but there was nothing offensive or anything that could degrade the values of the Democratic Party of Serbia, but it is actually an expression of our current situation and a correct finding. I ask you to use your arguments and not further degrade the atmosphere in which we work. I remind you once again - we have passed a set of laws in the area of justice. These laws forever depolitized the area of justice and no one stands in the way of the lady's candidacy you mentioned as the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. We named this woman the President of the Court. For very clear reasons, which have been said in our time, we have not given our support to her candidacy for the post of Serbian Supreme Court President. Whether it's oligarchy or not - let him judge the public. But in the future, every judge will be elected independently of political will, so Mrs Vasilic will also build her professional career independently of the Democratic Party or any other party that creates the political environment in which we work. I remind you once again - do not caricate this assembly debate by mentioning people who are not there, nor arguments that are easily subdued, such as this argument concerning the Federal Election Commission. Your party has proposed a deputy secretary who was the deputy secretary of the Federal Election Commission and you respected that decision because it is a technical person. I don't see that there's anything controversial about it and that such a thing should be the subject of our debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u14999	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15000	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as Mr. President of the Assembly has led the Assembly for the past ten months, show the final decision of his presidency, which, although against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has nevertheless been made. He broke the Rules of Procedure during his entire leadership of this assembly, using the beating we can freely call - terror of the majority. His shift reportedly resulted in the abuse of the electronic system when it was voted on by the labour law. It wasn't the first abuse of that same system. The first abuse pointed out, and I pointed out about eight months ago, when one MP, our colleague, voted in favour of two other MPs. At the time, the president of the assembly did not react because it was in his best interest at the time. He says he fought for TV broadcasts in this assembly, and he let me discuss one item of the agenda for just over a minute. So much for his democracy. As gentlemen of the Democratic Party of Serbia complain about Mr Djindjic -- they voted in favour of his government. They knew well then who Zoran Djindjic, who is the minister of justice, Mr Batic, and who Dusan Mihajlovic is, and who Jožef Kasa is. One more thing, just do Serbian public, because we MPs know it. In the current assembly of parliament, only two parties did not vote for the government: it is the SPS and the SRS. So I feel sick when someone comes out for this pay phone and they cry over the fate of the peasants, and he voted for those peasants to be the minister of Dragan Vesenov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15001	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Dragan Jocic. Since MP Dragan Todorovic is not in the O.R., I ask MP Dragan Jocic to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15002	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, we have heard the motion to resolve the mention of the last decade and the mention of the Socialists. I've been in this House since 1992, I've experienced a lot of unpleasant things. I was an opposition MP, I felt that amendments and bill proposals would not be adopted; that transfers would not be released; I had a minority obstruction, but I experienced it from a group that had ideology. She was rigid, she was unchanged, she was anachronic, she was dangerous at one point for the people, but it was ideology. The ideology of a party, the ideology that came from communist ideology. Now the unpleasant moments again, but not from those whose ideology is a party state, whose left idea is on the heart, whose one-party regime is on the heart, but from those who don't really have ideology, but something called just drive, drive for themselves, drive for themselves, whatever the consequences. What is not new, and it happened a few days ago with this card, happened in February 1994, also by the Democratic Party. At the time, under definition and parole -- honestly, he was honestly elected president of this assembly, Dragan Tomic. The methodology was the same -- secret, invisible, voices flew away and shortened Serbia by four years, because they brought the Socialists to chair this assembly. It's not the Dragan Martian, it's not the coalition agreement, it's something else entirely. It's one thing Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said, which is that DOS does not exist. And DOS did not destroy anyone else, neither did any of these parties, nor did the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, but Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. He destroyed it. We promised, as DOS, and he accepted the promise, the model of division of power and the rule of law. However, now we do not have a division of power, but parliament is suspended, and not only is it suspended and the real crisis, but there is neither government nor will exist. Soon there will be only one man's political will, who wants to be alone, and that is Zoran Djindjic. We have promised laws, not personal wealth regulations; a reduction in the administration, not seven vice-presidents of the government; co-operation with the international community, to protect the dignity of the country and citizens; we have promised, at least the DSS, not to extradite, to kidnap people from the markets, from the streets, but we have promised to bring something called - a law on The Hague tribunal. We promised new and better police, new secret police and public security laws; we did not promise tenders for 2,000 "pejo" vehicles, we did not promise new tenders for 3,000 different vehicles and BMWs, while in Serbia there are no scanners, no beds, no drugs, no sanitary cars. We didn't promise uniforms of various kinds and shapes, which we invent to the police, and that humans themselves have nothing to cover for hospitals. We promised independent information. Instead, however, we have a number of small, semi-taught journalists, who will publish every lie in the paper from their places, for small money. We promised an independent judiciary, not the rule of the court lobbies and private legal lines, which will put their actions in their pockets. We promised that instead of a non-democratic, anachronous and system-broken Milosevic's judiciary, we would bring the basics of the justice system, gentlemen. We didn't promise to make mixed legislative proposals, which, I must say, are even more clumsy ministers among the benches changing, begging these MPs to give up their amendments. We promised to remove all the illogical and social injustices, but we didn't promise the people they'd lose their jobs. We did not promise to do everything to improve the position of newly enriched employers compared to workers. In the end, dear friends, we did not promise to steal, even if it was stealing congregation cards. DOS exists as an idea, but not as a set of those parties that failed all of this. And therefore, as a consequence of returning to these principles, the Democratic Party had to pay as a victim, for now, as president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15003	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15004	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I know you've been expecting songs from me lately from this place. But unlike drunks, I only sing when I'm sad. I can't sing to you today, because I'm happy today. I was happy because the people of Serbia saw who he voted for in those elections, when he overturned the dictatorial regime, to bring in the Jacobites, as one of our colleagues said. I'm just a little sad, because our proposal for Mr. Dragan Marsican's shift is off the agenda. Well, then I'd probably sing more than one strof, but I'm not going to leave you without that one strof, which could say, roughly, like this: "Dear Martian has been very mutilated, angry with Djindjic, Chad, and he's angry with Cedu, and that's why he's taking a shift, according to the first part of his last name." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15005	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15006	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, esteemed journalists, and the average analysts made it clear that we would be very soon attending an internal account in the so-called so-called. The democratic opposition to Serbia, in the way it happens today. Serbia's democratic opposition is a non-programme, non-complicated, functional type coalition, run by only one motive before the elections -- to come to power in Serbia. Today they pay the real consequences of this delusion that it is possible to establish a coalition in this way, out of various political options, civil and social democratic events, monarchy, republican, managerial and quasi-patriotic. You're fighting in front of Serbian citizens today and you're embarrassing parliament. It is not our fight, nor is it our pleasure, but it is our obligation to say that in the course of one-year government, 217 times you have violated the Constitution of Serbia and 14 times you have violated the Constitution of the SRJ, that you are the only authority in Europe that has not had the strength to establish, to choose the Constitutional Court. You are the authority that is taking away immunity from the opposition MPs and the MPs of the internal opposition, apparently, mandates. You are the authority that has brought the most rigid Rules of Procedure that has reduced the rights of MPs to such an extent that it has designed parliamentaryism as such. You, respected gentlemen of the former DOS, had an implosion. You've collapsed from the inside and you're about to break into the well you've been digging for us today. You've divided us into reformers and dogmates, these and those. Only today you have 37 SPS MPs who cannot decompose and cannot break down into more small political groups, no matter how much you want to do so. We have attended one of the most unusual procedures in this House. Indeed, in front of our public, manipulation was made with one MP, indeed that man was not, indeed he had the strength to be, and indeed at that moment you created a self that you could no longer bridge. The arguments that you are conflicting with and which you are opposing us as MPs, for us as a nation and for us as a state, fall into the water after a statement by Doris Pak, the most shameful statement that could have been made to our country and directed to our citizens of Serbia. She said, "You can't spend the money of our taxpayers and do what you think you should do in your country." That's where you brought Serbia. You, gentlemen of the DOS, are today only the head of a protectorate called Serbia. You're temporarily at the head of that protectorate. One day, when you're not good enough for them, they'll try to find other perpetrators. That's why all those who don't want to participate today can get out of this with honor. The Socialist Party, its MPs and its leadership, have rightly indicated that something like this will happen in Serbia. You promised honesty, and you chose to be a district attorney for a man who doesn't deserve it at all. You promised to depolitize Serbia's judiciary, and you replaced only those people who had someone's party books and named only those who have yours today. It's a mirror of your principle. You've done a lot more to get you out of power. This is the beginning of not only the parliamentary crisis, this is the beginning of a deep political crisis in Serbia, from which you cannot get out clean, because it was not the election programme of the so-called DOS coalition. Dear gentlemen, there were 2,400,000 people in Serbia who voted for you. You're afraid of the days you have to go to new elections. It's one thing to be in opposition and to want power, and the other thing is to take responsibility for the exercise of power. It was easy to criticize those who exercised power. It is hard to respect today what you yourself have promised in the Serbian citizens' election programme. A lot has happened that deserves an explanation. We should not be interested in whether this is a personal conflict between Mr Djindjic and Mr Kostunica, and we might be interested. We don't need to be interested in whether it's a conflict between two political concepts. We should be curious whether you are able to organise in Serbia power in such a way as to make it a sovereign state? From the way things are going today, you're in no condition to do it. We are not looking forward to anything that can complicate opportunities in Serbia, but we will do everything possible to make the SPS a political point in this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15007	The People's Messenger Srdjan Petrovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15008	The respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, has repeatedly been heard in the previous discussion by opposition SRS and SPS MPs that the DSS is now complaining about the government and that it itself has entered the DOS coalition. Right, the DSS went to the DOS coalition twice. But I'll remind you, in December, the DSS gave its president's name DOS, under conditions. I'll remind you of two of the most important conditions. The private condition was to preserve the common state, to do so. The second condition was to stop abuse in the economy, prevent crisis headquarters and other things that began to happen between October 5th and December. Those two things were the main motto, after accepting other DOS colleagues, to get us into that coalition. Are we wrong? I don't think so. Why? The first of the conditions, to preserve Serbia-Montenegro's community, we see that it is going in a good direction and is approaching the goal. This community will be preserved not because our colleagues from DOS want it, unfortunately, but because they want those whom our colleagues consider their allies. I don't think they are. The international community will preserve the Serbia-Montenegro community and we all see it well these days. Another thing that the DSS advocated, to prevent abuses in the economy, crime -- everything that happened; it went public. The public knows what's going on and knows who's responsible. Both can best be shown on the case of Montenegro, which won the support of our coalition partner, the current prime minister of the Serbian government in 1997-1998. Montenegro had the support of the international community back then. Now we see where Montenegro is, we see what our colleagues in the parliament of Montenegro are discussing these days. I'm sure we'll discuss it in this House on the same subject. We know how Mr. Milo Djukanovic's private company went. That's how the private company of another gentleman will pass. Private businesses can't be governments. Governments must be responsible for citizens, governments are the executive bodies of the state. The agencies can't be government executives without knowing what the government is. It has to be, so it has to be the vice presidents of all the parties who wanted to or didn't want to go into a political fight, they just happened to be there. Communists, as well as their socialists, have often supported passwords in the past, in ancient times, that the goal justifies the means. Someone else said the best way to get to the finish line was the fastest way. The question is whether this fast-track goal can be reached and whether disrespecting procedures is a good way to reach a goal. Finally, the question arises, ‘ What is the goal of the one who is used by these means? ’ Is it something that communists once had a dictatorship of proletariats, whether it is now the rule of some self-called management that was gathered around Serbian government agencies. A few days ago, we saw certain arrangements being made in Vojvodina, accidentally at a time when discussions in the Serbian Parliament were in full swing. Those deals were made, as far as we're aware. I'd just like to ask my colleagues from Vojvodina if they think the prime minister is going to give economic decentralisation, does the head of the company want to give someone money, let go or hold on to their money he's earned? Is it just one of the empty promises and that in two months, there may not be another party on the wallpaper, so some other parties will be able to attack the party more easily with arguments that they are anti-Serbian, etc. It will be much easier for them than for them to attack the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15009	I can help MP Srdjan Petrovic address the Vice-President of the Vojvodina Assembly, Mr Miroljub Lješnjak, a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia and Mr Steve Bobic, a member of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina for all detailed information since they participated in the process. The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15010	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are now ruled by cowboy laws in Serbia. Many members of the current government have their own private horses, so they can constantly imitate the Wild West. You want the truth to be a lie, and you want honesty to be a thief. Now you want to go through that people's room, trust me, Cedomir Jovanovic, and don't trust your eyes. When it was found that the votes were stolen, that's when you came to each other's reckoning. With this mutual accounting, you are, in fact, revealing your true face. Because everything you promised Serbian citizens in your election campaign, you lied. You tricked those very own voters, so the citizens of Serbia. Today you are selling companies and destroying all the benefits of this people for your political goals facing the West and globalisation. Mr. Novakovic, as the true personality of the beautiful, proud town of Novi Sad, with your authority with honesty and reputation you should be the pride of this city, you should be the pride of all citizens, and you are a thief and a fraud who, in fact, paints that such is the political party you belong to. Mr. Novakovic, you're sitting next to the man in charge of environmental science, and the result is a biological contagion around you. You went to Greece to spend people's money. The Serbian Radical Party's initiative to replace Mr Marsicanin is older than the DOS-Mali Initiative and should have been discussed earlier in this House. on the negative work of Mr. Marsican as president of this parliament, because Serbian radicals are harassed, humiliated, but our honesty, courage, the knowledge of many is disturbing in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, individuals are plowing and sowing today, but I don't know where and in which country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15011	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic, and then by MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15012	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People, has an interesting Chinese proverb that says, "I hope you live in an interesting time." I don't know if the Chinese are blessing or not, but it seems to me that Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, and we MPs are experiencing an obviously interesting time. Interesting for many things, especially in the last year, since DOS came to power. On this DOS authority, but he didn't do anything about what he promised. Unfortunately, it seems to me that he's still going in a negative direction and that he's not going to do what he can, because he's ununity and because he shows that he didn't deserve the trust of the people, either in September or in December's elections. It's interesting, ladies and gentlemen, the explanation that has been filed for the request to relieve Parliament Speaker Dragan Marscanin. In addition to two simple-expanded sentences, there is nothing else in the written explanation, and after the presentation of representatives of the DOS parliamentary group, it would be said earlier that Vojislav Kostunica, not the speaker of the assembly, is on the agenda. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that it may be time to discuss the shift of Vojislav Kostunica, but it certainly is not an explanation for the replacement of the president of the National Assembly. It would also be interesting, ladies and gentlemen, especially for you who do not listen to any of us from the opposition, to go out for this pay phone and say what company this is since DOS in power came back to life without working before that. If someone asked you what was the list of companies that had stopped working since you were in power, I believe this assembly would last a few days while the speaker behind this pay phone listed that list. It should also take a few days for someone to read the list of people who have been removed from the Socialist Party of Serbia in the last year, but only because they are Socialists. There are many examples throughout Serbia. I could tell you a lot myself, but I'll say only one, say, at the Viskoza in Loznica nine months ago, the leadership has been replaced and since then, the Viskoza has not worked before, working with 50% capacity, paying salaries to workers, and these nine months back, none of the Viskoza workers have received a single dinar. There was no crisis headquarters there, but there was a change of will for DOS. It would be interesting, too, to ask you, DOS gentlemen, including you from the Democratic Party of Serbia, how come you don't know things without being in power or in power. How did you not know that the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia and former SRJ president would be arrested on 31 March, as it happened and delivered to The Hague on June 28th, as it did. How is it that the parliamentary majority, including the Democratic Party of Serbia, did not accept, in my opinion, a justifiable and reasoned request from the Socialist Party of Serbia to discuss in this House the illegal and unconstitutional regulation of the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Zoran Djindjic, that President Milosevic be delivered to The Hague. How could you not know that in the election campaign you came out with false promises, with billions of dollars from which Serbian citizens will live much better, unlike the time when they ruled, as you say, the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, unnatural and none, which ruled at the expense of the people. How come you don't know how to tell us MPs or citizens as a government, and why it happened that we have only $40 million of direct investments in Serbia's economy over the past year, and have promised billions. What's the reason? Is the reason sometimes the DSS, what my Lozniks would say, behaves like half a fish, half a girl. Is the reason only because or is it really because the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not respect this parliament, so it does not propose quality laws, and then it makes regulations that actually rule this Serbia. In the media, all the blame for this current situation is placed on the previous regime, they say, the Slobodan Milosevic regime, especially the Socialists. How is it that the party who advocates legalism, for the rule of law, does not know that the Socialists are exposed to persecution and that at this point we have over 700 criminal proceedings against the Socialists, to the greatest extent because they are Socialists and SPS members? Ladies and gentlemen, I could very much resent the President of the Parliament of Dragan Marsican: the fact that, with his representative group of the DSS, he allowed himself to be adopted in this assembly, in essence, by the non-national, anti-working Privatisation Act; which allowed such a law to be passed in this assembly without a social programme; which, as well as his party, has broken a bad bill on so-called. extraprofit; which he brought with his party, and with the help of the DOS, Rules of Procedure which regulate relations in the Assembly in a way that chokes every individualism of MPs in the National Assembly. But I can't blame him for proving that one body can't be in two places at the same time. He proved what was already known, and I remind you gentlemen of the anecdote that Newton himself understood the law of gravity at the moment when the apple fell on his head. Please, ladies and gentlemen, this time that is ahead of us will certainly be more interesting than it was in the last year, because the people have also come to their senses and realize that they have been betrayed and, at the very least, deceived. And if the parliamentary majority in this assembly is allowed to go to elections and to check the people's will, then it will prove quite clearly and loudly that the DOS does not know that the government, that it is not competent, and that what it can do, does not work because it does not or because it has not received a warrant; and we know that the warrants are not received from the country, but are obtained from abroad. And when a person is to be arrested; and when a list of police officers and members of the MUP are to be made for investigations, witnesses are scheduled before The Hague court, and potentially and accused; and when it should be said that this list is not valid; and when it is said that General Pavkovic and Mr Lukic are on the UN court lists and it is said that it is not true; therefore, there is no DOS will, it is somewhere else, and DOS should implement what they are told. But it doesn't fall, ladies and gentlemen, snow to cover the hill. It seems to me that this whole bitch and story is only for the people of Serbia to be deceived, to pay attention to something else, not to the hard life that we all, so here we are Members of the people, live in these conditions. So, this whole story is about putting dust in the eyes of voters to forget about DOS promises, to forget about unfavorable expectations, to forget that there are people who are power, but who don't know they're doing that power, and if they still don't have the will, then it's really a problem in themselves and a very big one. Another reason why I don't think it's snowing to cover the hill is a warrant the DOS needs to carry out, which is to create its own opposition, because the SRS and the SPS are obviously not an opposition to the DOS measure. It would be good, in my understanding of things, to make our own opposition, even if it is the Democratic Party of Serbia that we are about to exclude from DOS, and when we need to team up against the Socialists or against the Radicals, then we will be unique again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15013	The People's MP Dragan Shormaz has the word, followed by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament - "Keep the Thieves" says our people. It's just that all that's going on today is blurry, dusting, and it's clear to everyone. Of course, we have one problem, and that's what happened to us in the Assembly on Thursday, when the minister caused an incident with a group of SPS MPs, when there was an interruption, so that we would naturally gather as many MPs as possible on Monday so that we could declare the Labour Act in principle. And after that, on Monday, what we proved was Mr. Novakovic's absence from this room and voting with his identification card. We are interested, say, in why when it was so important to vote on Monday, why Mr. Ciric, who is the mayor of Nisa and who was in Thessaloniki along with Mr. Novakovic, did not fly that famous means of transport to Belgrade to vote, and the one-seater is concerned with being another vote. Why only Mr. Novakovic came to the cornfield where the famous one-seater airport landed, where the money was made, and no one in Serbia knows where the airport from which it is possible to land and take off and be in Thessaloniki and Belgrade within an hour. But it is simply necessary now to invent a bigger problem, Mr. Marsican needs to be replaced, in order to talk about it in Serbia and, of course, to forget what happened on Monday. We are from the Democratic Party of Serbia because we say that this government is incompetent and incompetent. We have arguments for that. What, gentlemen of the law have we brought here in a year? Except for the Privatisation Act, from the set of laws passed by the DSS parliamentary group on the days of the Justice Act, we would not have passed any. What law has given us, a valid law that we have passed here, the Ministry of Justice and local self-government? What valid law has the Ministry of Agriculture, Science and Technology, Ministry of Education, what have we done, what have we reformed? For over a year now, we've been applying laws from a period of the previous government, and we're not changing anything. Simply, we in the Democratic Party of Serbia did not promise that to the people and we do not want to suffer the consequences of the work of such a government. Some say good governments. In this way, the violent way, the blackmailing way, the pressure on the media, the police, we hear that the files of the DSS MPs are being created, that's how the previous government was acting, remember that, gentlemen. And the previous government had money, police, media, jeeps. Remember how it went on October 5th, 24 September and 23 December last year. It will not save you from the will of the people, gentlemen, at any time the election will not help you in these elections, nor the money, nor the police, nor the media, nor the jeeps. In those elections, you will lose disastrously, and the winner in those elections will be the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15015	The word is by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, followed by MP Bora Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15016	Dear citizens of Serbia, I address you, especially those who have entrusted your vote to DOS in the December elections. I hope in the last few days you've realized how much error you've been in when you believed DOS lies about a better life under their authority. I hope, too, that in these few days you've realized the true character of the current government. On Monday, the parliamentary majority tried to steal votes in the National Assembly, in the highest authority of government, to vote on the proposed labour law. Brutal and faceless theft was made by those who exercise power in this country, in the light of all the MPs present in the Assembly, as well as the entire Serbian public. In Serbian, those who steal are called thieves. And those who help them, knowingly and deliberately, do not deserve a different name. That -- stealing, thieving, crime -- is the essence of the current DOS government. Respected Serbian citizens, Serbia is in a political parliamentary crisis. The only way out is early elections. Think carefully about what has happened in the Serbian Parliament these days, whether you, Serbia, deserve such power. I hope we're not so sinful and not so rich, Docs, that we let an adventure called DOS rule last four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15017	The word has the People's MP Bora Drakulovic, followed by MP Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15018	My fellow MPs, I would prefer to water all of Serbia, for the reason it is guided by who leads it. For I am that after this day and the next days, when the people realize that these threads will lead, neither can they lead, that they will shine upon us. I'll explain why I went out, I thought I'd stay out, this is what I missed to tell you: Mr. President of the Martians needs to be removed and in a package with his personal secretary, Maric. He always referred to them as legalists, actually, they're real thugs. Most of the time, they've been engaged in abolishing the rights of political insinuators and the entire opposition, and above all, the Socialists. Last night, on TV, the Martian publicly boasted that his party had personally replaced Slobodan Milosevic and his party. I purposely speak of the president and his secretary, and what the secretary followed in his desire to reduce all rights of the opposition, of course the Socialists first, to take members of the DSS and other parties from the opposition. Unfortunately, the secretary did not follow him only when the president of the Martians tried to catch a false vote. In fact, the secretary now signed that the invisible MP Novakovic voted fairly and directly, found himself on the side of legalists and thus revealed his real bully face. The president and secretary must go in the package, because they are the true character of a negative Serbia. Also, I think there are a lot of reasons to leave, but not because of what the Democratic Party is looking for, that's not a reason. Because they discovered this thief, they should be commended. Because of what I said earlier, they really deserve to be replaced by both the president and the secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15019	The word is Bojana Aleksic, followed by National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15020	Dear fellow Members, I would like to remind you that today is the day of the shift of National Assembly President Dragan Marsicanin. Starting with the promoter himself and the inaugural speech of the promoter, through everyone else who spoke here today, I have not noticed that anyone made any mistakes in the work of Mr. Marsican, as president of the National Assembly. At least not some big mistake in the work that would require him to be replaced today. It's more like we want to change the truth here today. Mr. Martian's biggest mistake, in the opinion of the work of our coalition parathners, is that he was advocating for the truth. After all, since the DSS and its President Vojislav Kostunica have mentioned a lot of DOS and the way the DOS has even been joined in the first place, let's say a little bit about it too, to remind ourselves that the creation of DOS has occurred in the first place, why it even happened and who it was that DOS did at first. The DSS was created in June 1992 to fight against a totalitarian regime, to fight for what are true values, which are above all politics. For values such as truth and virtue, honor and honesty. The DSS has never advocated materialism in politics and has always wanted democratic rather than violent means to reach power, in order to establish a rule of law in this unfortunate and distressed country and perform something called essential, not just declarative reforms. Looks like that's why the DSS has to pay today. If that is the reason, Dragan Marscanin, all DSS MPs, all officials, directors, members of the DSS boards, municipal and municipal government presidents, will be happy to be the victims of truth, consistency and principle. I just don't know what's gonna stay with those other people in that case. The DSS has not sinned for a moment on the DOS coalition agreement. The DSS has advocated and will continue to advocate democracy and democratic institutions, for the rule of the majority. Will the rest of the DOS without the DSS be able to rise to have most of this people? Let's just remind ourselves of the time from just over a year ago, to remind ourselves of September 2000, when everyone noticed, everyone who participated in the vote counting from the election results, that SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica had already had some 400,000 votes more than the list of Greater Citizens for the Federal Assembly, led by Mr Dragoljub Micunovic, who, on the other hand, had, I don't know, but a lot more votes than the list for the Greater Republic, whose first place was Mr. Zoran Djindjic. Although it is said that the Democratic Centre is small and the Democratic Party is a large party. It was known by then, as was known by the number of DOS supporters who went to the rallys organised by the Democratic Party of Serbia and President Kostunica, that there were significantly more people coming here than those rallys organised by the DOS caravan, as they were organised with incomparably less money and marketing, because the Democratic Party of Serbia never had money and never fought for its principles by means of money and power. Her power was in her idea and in the belief of her members, who were completely broke, very often delivered the mail personally to save for the postage stamp, went and applied for their ideas. I'd ask myself, why are you silenced today by the MPs of DOS parties? Why don't they come out and say their opinions about the point on the agenda? Which is why they do not go out and say what the Democratic Party of Serbia has done and what coalition agreement it has wronged. I know and believe that there are many MPs in this room of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia who have both honor and conscience, and who disagree deeply with what is happening here today. I want all of them to wonder -- we were already eyewitnesses of what happened to one part of the Democratic Serbia Movement MPs, as they passed, what happened to the MPs of some other parties -- that everyone was wondering what would happen to them at the time when in the name of their party's programme, which was partly contained in the DOS, and in the name of their ideas, they would oppose what is currently pragmatism and the current struggle for all those ideas that the Democratic Party of Serbia advocated when it was founded. The Democratic Party of Serbia was founded among other things to bring down a totalitarian regime, to bring the rule of violence and tyranny to an end and to establish the rule of law. Is this what the rest of the Democratic opposition of Serbia stands for at this time and in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15021	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15022	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, since the constitution of this call for the National Assembly, in which you on the DOS-Vojislav Kostunica list have gained the trust of the people from 176 parliamentary seats, the Serbian Parliament has been abound with various affairs, violations of Rules of Procedure, abuse and terror over the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, and in all this is the Democratic Party of Serbia, together with the current rest of the DOS, with the help of Mr Dragan Marsicin, still the current National Assembly president. But today we need to ask ourselves - what is the reason for this bloodthirsty struggle between the rest of the DOS and the Democratic Party of Serbia, and what is the reason for the replacement of Mr Marsican? The theft, with the counterfeiting of the vote using Mr. Novakovic's identification card and your current detour from the so-called. the reform course in the labour law, which will completely destroy workers in Serbia and our overall economy, to what is now most important to you at this point - to be accounted for among yourselves and, in the right sense, to be spoken of as bloodthirsty beasts, to be torn down in front of MPs, who should observe and should be determined for one or the other. Unlike those in your fight, the Serbian Radical Party will continue to point out what is wrong with either party, which has marked the past year and a few days, because you are all together, and from the Democratic Party, with those attached to you, from the Democratic Party of Serbia, with Kostunica and Djindjic, have done enormous damage to the Serbian people and to all of us. However, this brief presentation will end with a review of your candidate for National Assembly President. If it was up to you to deal with the Democratic Party of Serbia at the end, did it have to come to this, the DOS gentlemen, Mr Jovanovic, to propose to the candidate from the most enthusiastic party, if it can be found among you who is the most anti-Serbian, the civil union of Serbia, the person who is synonym for passion, haughtiness, and who, in a year's time, with the help of Mr Marsican, did not want or could not learn how to address me as a national MP among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15023	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15024	Dear fellow Members, allow me to say a few words about this point, which is on the agenda of this session of the Assembly, which is included in a non-business manner. An even more beautiful thing - two points have been combined that are completely different in nature and cannot be discussed both at the same time, talk about resolution and at the same time talk about appointment, as suggested in the proposal for this agenda point. I say on purpose - appointment, because this is not the first time the Assembly has appointed those to choose. This happened with the choice of judicial office holders, i.e. by appointing, if you remember, the holders of judicial functions in Belgrade's district, municipal and other courts; this happened several times after that, and today when we talk about the resolution of the current president of the Assembly, we again violate the Rules of Procedure, we do not respect the procedure of choice, nor the procedure of resolution. I have no intention of believing what you said. I don't know how the people have believed you so far, the stories you've told, because you've turned these stories around many times and your election promises, one by one, have abandoned you, and this is what you've brought before the Parliament today. It is certain that people who sign something cannot be trusted, and then say that there is a higher interest, and here they criticise macaroveism, criticise jacobs, criticise the totalitarian regime, and forget about their behavior that is exactly the same or much worse than what is being criticised. When the former period is criticised, the rule of the communists, as you say, totalitarian rule, do not forget that in your government you have at least half of the former communists in your vice presidents. Don't forget that. Do not forget that there are many MPs in this assembly in the opposition, in DOS, who are former communists. Don't just attribute it to the socialists, who are at least, according to their programme and definition, that they are heirs and bearers of these ideas, and that they still want to do so. We have today received one conclusion from the Administrative Committee here in the Assembly. This is a small threat or a little warning to the MPs, since it is the opposition that should carry the majority, i.e. to secure the quorum, the opposition in your opinion, and it is in our position that the opposition is to sit here in the Assembly that there is always at least 126 to begin in time and to organise an adequate debate in the Assembly. The opposition should also include its opinion on the draft laws on the topic of debate. However, you are using, since you have not been able to discipline your MPs so far to be here in the number needed for the smooth and regular work of the Assembly, and this conclusion of the Administrative Committee, where it is said that you must and report, and that you must be in the electronic system, is only a matter of what time. Because according to the Rules of Procedure, a man who comes out of this room, an MP, of course, has to take out his card, according to the Rules of Procedure, and when he comes back to put it in. When this intersection is going to be done to determine the quorum by the electronic system, whether it suits someone, whether it sums up how many MPs were in the O.R. and whether it's meant for those who need to get away from this room, not to list who they are. Therefore, I think this is one of the pressures that is being put on the MPs, that they are being disciplined by force. For discipline, one who has a majority in this room should be held accountable. This raises the question of the president's resolution, with the explanation of a few sentences, I will not quote them, they have been quite said, and it has previously been forgotten that mistakes have been made in the violations of the Rules of Procedure before; that what was to be considered has not been discussed; that what was proposed has not been included in the agenda, in the time foreseen for the regular procedure; that I do not list here, starting from the Survey Committee, from the proposal for various resolutions of ministers, to determine the responsibilities of ministers, and police, and agriculture, etc. It didn't come to the agenda, it wasn't the reason that we were here to discuss it and it was the president's responsibility not to put it on the agenda, but the president's responsibility is that whoever left, and you say he was driving in the one-seater, probably didn't know he was coming back from where he was, because it's probably impossible, or he couldn't get here in time to identify himself. And as for this story about who has what and how he has, I don't mind people having and riding horses. Better them than the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15025	The word has a People's MP, Miodrag Jacimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15026	Dear MPs, we have a dangerous situation here today - we are replacing the president of parliament who caught him in the act of thieves. Instead of being punished, the thief is punished. We all know in the O.R. that Ambassador Novakovic was not in this hall on Monday, and Kobajagi voted. He is president of Serbia's second or third city, i.e. Yugoslavia, and is allowed to claim something that is impossible. This is all a distraction from thieving and falsifying. Has he ever, and where, replaced the President of Parliament because he told the truth? Are we aware of what we're doing right now? Is there more embarrassing for this assembly and for the state of Serbia? I cannot understand that Ambassador Novakovic did not apologize to this assembly and admit what we all know - that he could not have been in the assembly on December 3rd, when he was in Thessaloniki. You can't trade with his voice like that. Something like this never happened. So, can he still be president of the New Sad Assembly? I guess he'll resign, because anyone else would respect him in that place, especially his fellow citizens. I think this was supposed to be talked about all the time, not talking about many other things that are beyond this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15027	There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's been a year and several days since the DOS came to power, the SRS has been responsible to tell you that since the 1804s, since the start of the new state, there has been no more incompetent, irresponsible political strain than the DOS has been in power. Gentlemen of the DOS, you're trying to pass a labour law, which you're going to hang up on the workers. The people, if you adopt this law, will tell you: we have a state - we do not know; we have lost freedom - we have learned, we have lost the state - we have learned. The people ask -- is there justice, the DOS says -- there, the people asks -- if there's a law, the DOS says -- there, the people asks -- if there's morality, the DOS says -- there is. The people ask DOS - whether there is a God, and the people say in the end - there is God. Ladies and gentlemen of the DOS, you have delivered The Hague to Slobodan Milosevic, and you are preparing an even bigger noise of patriots, Serbs, so you are searching all over Serbia and Serbia's countries where you will catch Ratko Mladic and Karadzic, and many other Serbian patriots. Slobodan Milosevic was delivered without regents, with five million dollars at Tuzla airport; you delivered him against the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the Code of Criminal Procedure. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the Serbian people were not so angry with Milos Obrenovic for killing Karadjord, but he was more angry that he delivered Karadjordje's head to the Sultan. This is how it will happen to you, gentlemen of the DOS, who do not respect the Constitution and the laws and cooperate with The Hague tribunal without the Constitution and without the law. You didn't ask the Americans how they dealt with terrorists. The Americans dealt with separatists and enemies, allegedly the American people, by killing thousands and thousands in Texas and condemning many to 99 years in prison. So, ladies and gentlemen, the SRS estimates that all your promises, which you made during the election campaign, were false. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the new government is pushing Serbia into a break-in. The DOS must fall apart because it is twice as rotten and as such cannot save Serbia, I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that Serbia will be ruled by the Ottoman Empire, if the Serbs are in southern Serbia, and in southern Kosovo has represented and defended Nebojsa Covic. Ladies and gentlemen, because of your well-known Rules of Procedure, I am not in a position to complete my lecture. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me tell you DOS, the road is wide, but it seems to have become narrow for DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15029	Dear People's MPs, I am reminded by the chairman that I have 30 seconds left. But what will you do when you've voted such a Rules of Procedure where no one can say anything? I asked her to allow at least four sentences. I can't go any faster. The SPS also pointed out last year in a pre-election campaign, and all this time while you are in power, that 18 parties, a variety of 18 parties, with different ideological programmes, with different attitudes towards the people, according to the sovereignty of the country, cannot lead the country. Nothing good can bring such a coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15030	Please, MP, the time of the parliamentary group is up. I ask the People's Messengers to hear from each other. The SPS, as the last speaker from its parliamentary group, had a National MP, Radet Bajic, on the list. He had 30 seconds. When it was one minute, I warned that the time for the SPS parliamentary group was over.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15031	That's what happened today. So there were many reasons for Mr. Marsican's vote of mistrust. But I'm not going to say a single negative word personally about Mr. Marsican, but just as the president of the assembly, because anyone who was president of the DOS Assembly, that's how we'd treat it. He was here when tax laws were passed that taxed everything, even children's diapers, children's toys and school supplies. (President: I ask the MP to bring an end to the discussion, because of the business rules. ) When it was the Law on Privatisation, the new Rules of Procedure, which never put South Serbia on the agenda and the fateful negotiations of Covic, which led the Serbian people to ruin; which never asked how to free the Shipatarian terrorists from our prisons without setting a condition for one, even if one of our 1,300 people were free. (President: National MP, 2.33 minutes. Please bring the discussion to an end. ) What he said behind his back here, when we said something was going on in Užičko and that President Milosevic's arrest was ahead, to deceive the Serbian public. But since I have to finish, we won't stand on either side because of what we got today, which is that it violates the DOS agreement, nor will we vote in any way, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for, not for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15032	I ask the People's Parliament not to put in an unequal position the MPs of other parliamentary groups. I've allowed 30 seconds for you to finish. What they wrote in their explanation, we will not participate in it. The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejic, and after that, MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The SRS parliamentary group has 2.15 minutes in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, while the president of the National Assembly used the laws and regulations of DOS politburo, until then everything was fine. As soon as the president of the National Assembly held back and turned to the Rules of Procedure, he was immediately attacked because he was not in line with the DOS majority, or the rest of the dosmanium, who were keeping an eye on the mistakes of all opposition SRS MPs. What happened? On Monday, the reincarnation of Baron Minhauzen took place. There was a reincarnation because it flew on Mr. Novkovic's cannon, because how different to interpret when we found out, we heard it from the president of the National Assembly, that there were no plane flights, and he showed up here anyway. So either the real Baron Minhausen was present here in the National Assembly or they were some vampires. These vampires are here today, who will try in every way that what they did not accept, what the SRS asked for with a lot of arguments, civilized and in the right way, saying and pointing to a violation of the Rules of Procedure by the president of the National Assembly, today as vampires of the Ottoman vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15034	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15035	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have not yet adopted the labour law as a whole, and we already have our first victim; it is Mr. Martian; and not because of his unhappiness, not because of the poor and biased conduct of the session, which was pointed out by Serbian radicals in their proposal to replace the president, but because he discovered a constant theft by the dosmanium, which he had not overlooked as those before and therefore must be replaced. Why did Mr. Martian deserve a shift? The main reason is that, contrary to the resolution and the declarations we adopted in this parliament, the Serbs were invited to the occupation elections, he urged Serbs to the unseen mud, shame, humiliation and shame, to the terrible humiliation that today's so-called Hekerup MPs are being exposed. There was talk of a boycott of choice. The Democratic Party has not boycotted the election. Marko Jaksic was the only one who boycotted the elections, but the Serbian Radicals boycotted those elections, and today we are absolutely right when we point out this, given the fact that we are experiencing the embarrassment and shame of Serbia and the Serb race by the new so-called. Hackerup's MPs. Given the weather, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15036	At 1.26 minutes, the total time for the SRS parliamentary group expired. National MP Kragovic spoke for 1.26 minutes, and the parliamentary group had 1.10 minutes. The word has the People's MP Marko Jaksic. The basis for the replica - is mentioned in the presentation of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15037	Unfortunately, Mr. Kragovic, that's what happened. However, we have had opportunities to listen here to Mr Jovanovic's crocodile tears over Kosovo, over a pre-election campaign. I'm sorry, I don't know how many times anything else has been done, except for that circus that DS put on that border, that's when they wouldn't let their friends in. That's all Mr. Jovanovic thinks and cares about Kosovo at all. Unfortunately, I think I'm right. The next day after the election, Desanka Milosavljevic was killed, and then every day they breach the northern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica, Serbian doctors are being expelled from Gracanica. That's that beautiful pre-election cappella that pretty Chad invited us to. On the other hand, I unfortunately did not listen to my master, unlike Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15038	With this, we have exhausted a list of the people's messengers reported to be involved in the debate. Of course, the heads of parliament have the right to take part in the debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15039	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here we are entering the afternoon section in the already not knowing which hour of debate on what is on the agenda today and probably to no one in this room, who has any respect for what is DOS, which is the promises we made to the citizens, is not dear. I would like each of the MPs from DOS to vote to look us in the eye, as we can look the citizens of Serbia in the eyes, as we could do on 24 September and 23 December and as we will always be able to do. And if they looked at us, and looked at the citizens, and said, it was a fair vote, no one had taken any votes. Just to say, nothing else; and to say - Mr. Martian, you have violated the Rules of Procedure here and here. Is all this happening just a distraction from one abuse that's more than evident? Is this a way for someone to try to hide the smaller one from a bigger media bomb? Is this a way to discredit Skuština? Yes, it is. Is this a way to discredit yourself and you gentlemen MPs? This is what you discredit yourselves first, and one of you wants to build a voting machine, and the apparatus in his hands, rather than the apparatus and the executive authority being yours, and that you control them, they govern you. Do you want to be puppets in a theatre play, to be dolls of a dictatorial authority, who will rule from the cabinet, who will rule the regulations, and in which the directors of the agency will be more powerful than any MP, than any parliamentary group and anything that exists in this country. Is that what you want? Did you promise that to the citizens? We're not, neither are you. Is that what you're doing? Do it, gentlemen. Why does someone need to destabilise the state now? We are going into the process of restoring talks with the parties in Montenegro, in the process of redefining relations in the Federation. We have good cooperation with the international community. The Democratic Party of Serbia announced a proposal for co-operation with The Hague tribunal. The charges and attacks against the Democratic Party of Serbia followed. Who minds the co-operation law with The Hague? To those who want to use Hague indictments for various petty squishy interests and blackmail. They are bothered that they could make a variety of promises that they will not be delivered, that they have protection because there is no regulated legal system of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, where this state will stand behind everyone, not a particular lobby and a certain group of people. That bothers them. Because someone's bothered to change the system, but they're okay with a system where there's no system and there's only rule that there's no rules, that the rule is stronger, that the rules can change during the game. It is a system where those who do not want Serbia well are best equipped in Serbia. Who is responsible for destabilising Serbia and Serbia's international destabilising, bringing new discord into the parliamentary majority, fostering secessionist movements in Montenegro. Who does that suit? Is that going to the hands of Serbian citizens? It's not working. Why call for a coalition agreement: to hear what stands in such a famous coalition agreement. If someone's already breaking the coalition agreement, you're breaking it today. The seat of Parliament's president belongs to the Democratic Party of Serbia and you know it well, but you are doing the opposite again; and it is not sacred. What is it but personal and party interest? What can be called the government that has seen a decline in production since the beginning of its rule, a rise in the rate of crime, a failure to implement system reforms. Is that a successful government? Is that the reform government? Can reforms be carried out on these grounds? Do we want to build a state and change the system of abuse in the congregation, to abuse in the most sacred legislative home? If that happens in front of millions of people, in front of cameras, what happens when someone talks to someone in four eyes? Many of you know well how to talk in four eyes, so maybe that's why they'll vote. But have you fought for such a state, where in four eyes things will end, where there will be no guarantee of any right. Have you fought for a country where political processes against political insolents will continue, where I will wave criminal charges? Have you fought for a country where certain services will work to create files for the discredition and compromise of each of you MPs and that will keep waiting for the right moment. Did you fight for such a country? These days, all the halls, all the files are collapsing. He's messing with the history and family tragedies of many of you here, but he's waiting for the right moment. Did you fight for such a country? Did you fight for a police state, a state where absolute control has executive authority? Is that what you've been fighting for? Did you fight for a country full of affairs, for a state of undiscovered crime, for the country's biggest robbery in Europe this year? Did you fight for such a country? Ladies and gentlemen, we all know what's going on, that this is the cause of a more serious argument that follows us in the country, for the calculation of two concepts. One key concept of safe and fundamental reforms, change of system and establishment of the rule of law. It is the concept of a partnership relationship with the international community, trust and return of trust in institutions; institution building. The second concept is one whose nothing is sacred, nor agreements, nor laws, but which is sacred to him only what is his personal and party interest. That's two concepts. You have the right to choose. Don't say you don't. You know very well and the citizens know. It's your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. You need to look yourself in the eye and look the people in the eyes. I don't know why many of you are looking away from us from the Democratic Party of Serbia today, I don't know why you're doing this. I will conclude with the quote by Borislav Pekic, founder of the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, who said "Ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing in the world is a peaceful dream. Ask the communists, they haven't closed their eyes in 50 years." I'm afraid if you continue like this, you won't have a peaceful dream either.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15040	Are any of the heads of Parliament answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15041	Dear colleagues, here's the debate at the end. What we least wanted, which is that our DOS problems and the joint coalition, which won the maximum citizens' trust last September, are being brought here before those who have lost to Serbia's citizens. It happens, but what we can do, it's like that. I repeat what I said this afternoon: our greatest desire, for us from New Serbia, is that tomorrow at the DOS college, there is some reconciliation, a convergence of attitudes. Of course, someone here doesn't want it, especially from these people, colleagues who are in opposition, and I totally understand that. But you must understand, too, those of us who speak with a voice of reason, and I am convinced that even the people of both MP groups, who are at first sight most confronted here, do not lose hope that this can happen. We'd like to do it the most. That is why before the vote to resolve the president and elect the new speaker of the assembly, since the vote goes one after another without discussion between us, we will explain the New Serbia position that we will vote, precisely for the reason that someone will not manipulate or say anything tomorrow. All seven MPs present here - and the eight New Serbia MP, who was elected here yesterday, will not be able to vote because she had a death certificate in the nearest family and today is absent, but I am convinced that she would vote similarly - will vote to continue to give Mr Marsican confidence, i.e. We'll vote against Mr. Martian's motion for a shift. This is about New Serbia and its vote, which is for a simple reason because we believe that decisions like this should not have been made here, but on those bodies that will be held tomorrow, and hopefully later. However, gentlemen of the Parliament, it is very important to ask what will be further? Our best wish is for this parliament and for the next vote to be the political structure that gained citizens' confidence last September. Unless Ms. Natasa Micic is elected and gets most of those present here in the hall, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that we voted on a few months ago, the oldest vice president of the Assembly will be acting as president of the Assembly. That is, I must remind you, Mr Ljubisa Maravić of the SPS. He, I was present in Kosovo Mitrovica in August last year, stoned Mr. Kostunica at a pre-election rally. At no cost, we mentioned this, and I repeat the words of the MPs when he was elected Vice-President of the Assembly, we did not want to vote for him, although the DOS parliamentary group, at the highest percentage, and particularly the Democratic Party, voted for him. We didn't vote then either, and I don't think the Democratic Party of Serbia either. What's going on in the meantime? In the meantime, if we do not declare Mrs. Natasa Micic, we will have the president of the SPS-like Assembly; a man who has shown his anger in the worst possible way towards people who have trusted citizens; we will also have across the way from Mr. Milan Milutinovic, president of Serbia who also sits, we do not know where and what is, which is on The Hague's pursuit; we will have for the president of the Assembly and President of the Republic, people who are from the defeated structures. What happens next, gentlemen? We will also vote here for Mrs. Natasa Micic, courageously and honestly, unlike those who wanted this to happen. There's going to be a jumble, but on Sima Street, in DOS rooms, when it's necessary and when we decide, not when these people sitting here in row five or six decide. Therefore, I thank you and our attitude is extremely simple. Mr. Marsicanin has our full support, Mrs. Micic also has our full support. If you are careful, Mr. Marsican, as we best wish, Mrs. Natasa Micic, as our MP, also enjoys still our trust at the post of Vice-President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15042	Here you go, pal, replica, Mr. Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15043	Dear fellow MPs, honourable MPs, my predecessor, counterpart Petrovic, from New Serbia, has today brought out of this booth the notorious lies concerning my name, related to a pre-election campaign that was held last year on the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. I am determined to deny any involvement in everything that happened during that incident and any member of the SPS involved in these events. I think it's about rough insinuations, very thought-out and directed against the SPS, which in Kosovo Mitrovica in all the past elections in the last 10 years has won convincingly. She won convincingly, which she also proved in last September's 24th elections, when she received 52 per cent of the vote in December's elections, when she received 44 per cent of the vote. Therefore, I ask you to take this seriously in the interest of the truth because I firmly deny it, and in some ways these words can also reflect the unity of the Serbian people, which we create in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, in Kosovo Mitrovica, no matter what political option they belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15044	Mr. Nikolic, you asked for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we Serbian radicals might as well throw some stone at Dragan the Martian. We could bury him with rocks. No, and we wouldn't, even if there was a pile of rocks that had already been thrown at him. We're not because we're not people like that, we don't beat people up. Dragan Marsican, as speaker of the assembly, is no longer an object of interest to Serbian radicals. It's obvious that you decided otherwise. Obviously, we haven't heard any arguments today, but you don't need an argument. The argument is that in 1992 you were already parting, that Serbia thought it was forever, and that in 2000 you met again, now you're breaking up again, and Serbia might think it's forever. And God knows what the day is and what the night is. One thing is clear: those who sponsor abroad will not be on your watch list and debt. You won't be allowed to do that. And the proposal to elect Natasha Micic is a sign to us Serbian radicals of what you are actually doing. Ten years of anti-Serbian action of the Civil Union has led to a representative of the Civil League being president of Serbia, and an MP warning and threatening here -- if we don't choose it, Milutinovic could be replaced by a Socialist. It is much more dangerous for Milutinovic to be replaced by a member of the GSS, much more dangerous and destructive for Serbia. Today we've heard stories of conflicts within DOS. I wish we'd heard that in time, I wish you hadn't had such a fight, so you could bring out so much dirt that you've done together for the past year. I would say that you of the DSS in March of the month realized that you can't go with the DS, because I guess that's not my unnatural wish, because I belong to the opposition. It would be much more honorable. If the Martian had not determined that you had stolen one necessary vote to pass the law, it found that even your video that you claim is not mounted shows that Leila Ruzdic from the first row of the vote in the second, and in the first place all parliamentary units are working. She had no reason to turn back, Leila seemed to help the clerk, show her how to activate the contact in the MP's unit. But what I know since you appeared united on the political scene, the citizens of Serbia could see naked today, you're no good to each other. All today, without any of my words, you said everything today about each other (from the O.R. - we love each other). You can't look into each other's eyes anymore. You look at each other. You love each other, but you don't see each other. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that whoever comes out of this session is satisfied with the result of the vote has nothing to celebrate. I heard that today the Prime Minister announced the detachment of all DSS MPs from the National Assembly. Today, here's my information, maybe the press, who asked me about it, are lying. We'll wait for the evening, see what the agencies say. Neither will the DSS be much defeated that is no longer with you, nor will you be many great winners because she is no longer with you. You'd be best off going all the way together. Only together could you fool Serbia. Now that you're on your way to the campaign, the people are going to ask you what they're doing. The DSS will say: they stole everything alive, they rule regulations, they passed monopoly regulations, they're not interested at all, they're written by foreigners. Will this look like a Serbian radical story to you in this assembly? When the DS comes to the stands, so when they ask about the DSS, and you say, "They're just guarding cats, only their president's wife writes us a new constitution, they're decadent, they're 19th-century, they didn't want to participate in reforms, they wanted seats on boards, and they didn't want to take the risk of power." Or am I lying to you? This is no good. I could look forward to being a representative of the SRS. It shoots DOS all over the seams, and the radicals who told the people it was an artificial coalition, that they would deceive the citizens and break, now they have confirmation of their stories. I can't look forward to it, you won't give the election. If there's an emergency election, you're so strong now, so you claim to win all the elections, question those elections, increase your victory, get rid of those others who bother you. You will not give the election, and Serbia will continue to fail. Serbia will continue to disappear. Look, we only manage to secure the quorum when it is to be or not to be. None of you are interested in congregation work, nor are most of you interested in any draft law in this congregation. Today you are gathered to cut one head: cut, that's your head. You have, you're an angel with who knows how many hundreds of heads, you've got something to cut, you've got new ones. If no new ones come, money will come from abroad for you personally, not for Serbia. Cut, destroy each other. I would like to discuss again in a few days about someone from DOS, because I will hear some more evidence that you really are the worst authority in Serbia. Remember, from Montenegro today, one year after the election, we are much further than we were at the end of last year. It's your fault. Don't forget, Vojvodina was never further to Serbia, it's your fault. Remember, in Kosovo and the Metohija, you only have your MPs, who land on a plane from Belgrade; when KFOR tells them there, we cannot provide you, then they are a coalition return to Belgrade. Whom they represent there in Pristina, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Whom they will sit next to, who will preside over them, who will invent their rules of procedure. This is all your fault. This sin is an unmistakable sin that you delivered Slobodan Milosevic to Vidovdan, a sin when you brought the Serbs to elections in Kosovo and Metohija and let them into the hands of the Shiptars. The question is how many of them you've made in the election, and how many of you have stolen votes, according to the old well-tested principle. UDBA has this principle worked out, it developed that principle for the SPS. Not good, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, situation in Serbia at all. We're in a big crisis. You know how normal states solve their political crises: not conflicts, not battles; elections. Don't be ashamed, which after a year and a few days you provide Serbian citizens with elections. You won't be able to maintain this situation for four years. We lost a year or maybe individuals didn't lose. Natasa Micic did not lose. Its policy takes over Serbia, anti-Serbian politics. She's the only one who wins, the GSS is the only one who wins. Touch them, release Natasha Micic when you set her up. You won't be able to, because there will be a voice from abroad, you won't be able to touch it. G17 plus you can't touch it. They have the protection of those who are also your sponsors from abroad. Whoever else won in Serbia, if he got the people (from the hall - time) - ends, Mr Kovacevic, I see you have taken over as president of the assembly. Did the people get anything but new prices, except fear, except lost factories, except that under you, many more children went abroad than before you. The MPs of the SRS cannot participate in your aunts. The MPs of the SRS will begin to prepare for the elections, the election must be. The election must be made as soon as possible. Better choices than people on the streets. This people, who now go out to the streets, will not go out to change Slobodan Milosevic, will come out to change you. You'll see how he feels at night, a man whose shift the people seek, and he lives outside the people. We will be abstained in this vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15046	Replica? Mr. Ivkovic called earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15047	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representative of a parliamentary group, looking for reasons for their diametrically opposing views, could not deny that the vice president of the Republic Assembly had been involved in the stoning of Mr. Kostunica in the northern part of Mitrovica, which was recently under Serbian administration. Of course, he forgot that it would be a great and even greater shame to have someone sitting here in the chair who burned down the Federal Assembly or state television. Perhaps because someone stoned Mr. Kostunica, perhaps that's why the decision was made to reduce from 7 million to 6 million 970, erase 130,000 votes in Kosovo and Metohija so that Mr. Kostunica would get 50.24% and thus be denied lies by billboards in Belgrade to win 58%, 54.5%, 52.4%. However, as far as the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs are concerned, we are not going into this internal story of yours at DOS to enter, nor are we going to participate in this. This is your internal account and let the citizens of Serbia see who they chose. But why are you doing this here in public, in front of everyone. Why didn't they sit down as well for the legal projects in your 18 leading men's politburo, as you've done so far, and agreed to two or three minutes' work here, but we're spending our taxpayers' money while you're here making public arrangements on the Serbian scene. I repeat -- MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia gave their eight signatures to the Serbian Radical Party for the resolution of Mr Marsican, but for entirely justified reasons. Because this assembly has not played its main government role - that capital things are being resolved here. We did not have an extraordinary session at the end of August and in early September, about Kosovo and Metohija, when it was important that we here publicly discuss whether the registration should recognise the Hekerup Constitution or not. Instead, we had who knows which way to change the Rules of Procedure, which drastically reduced the rights acquired until then to represent the interests and will of the citizens. We would, in that case, and how we would vote to resolve Mr. Martian, because he is finally the character of those legal projects that were brought here. But in this situation, when certain relationships are broken down between you, we don't want to participate, because we don't think there's any difference between you. Dear gentlemen from the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, you have jointly rejected the proposal to form a polling committee to discuss what happened on March 30th, 31st and April 1st this year. We found out here that you all knew everything, although some claimed they had no idea what was going on in their country, and when they found out, they said they disagreed. You have refused together here to annul the unconstitutional decision of the government of the Republic of Serbia since 28 June. Together (Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia) you rejected our request to consider the resolution of Judge Cavlina, because his prisoner suddenly disappeared without his knowledge. It's just that there's no difference between you two. This is where we learned that you together formed the first crisis headquarters and agreed on who by the economy of Serbia, according to the institutions of Serbia to form other crisis headquarters. You're just the same for us. You are the position, you are the power, you will remain the power. The Socialist Party of Serbia is now in opposition and does not want to see anyone else but as part of the DOS; that you are together in power because you have brought one another into power. As far as the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs are concerned, we have shown by our actions that we are not looking at party glasses, or chasing party interests, rather than looking at the interests of Serbian citizens. We have defined ourselves for those laws that work, when they work, and voted against those legal projects that are wrong. We have also supported the legislative projects of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the area of the judicial system, because they are good and because they have prevented the insidious idea of all judges and prosecutors being fired - and then being chosen by some St. Peter, suddenly, again. At the same time, we supported the proposal and the actions of the DOS when it came to the Law on Serbian Chambers of Commerce because we felt that the project was good that the future of the economy was to come together and say louder what miles it needed to work better. We, as SPS MPs, will not vote in either case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15048	Here you go, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15049	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to explain, once again, the reasons why the Serbian Unity Party cannot support neither Mr. Dragan Marsican nor Mrs. Natasa Micic, regardless of our respect for their personalities. First, Serbia's Democratic opposition is responsible for failing to deliver on promises made to Serbian citizens ahead of last year's elections. Secondly, Serbia's Democratic opposition is responsible for living worse than it was before the elections. Third, the Democratic opposition to Serbia is responsible because it is governed by regulations, not by the Constitution and by laws. Fourthly, the Democratic opposition to Serbia is responsible for the inadmissible extradition of citizens of Serbia, i.e. Yugoslavia to The Hague tribunal against the Constitution and laws, as well as for the illegal extradition of citizens of Republika Srpska to The Hague tribunal. Fifth, Serbia's Democratic opposition is responsible for urging Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. We saw well how Serbian MPs in Kosovo and Metohija are conducted. First they won't let them land, and when they land, then the training is being held by the MPs from Croatia and Albania. Is there more shame for a Serbian MP than to have his training for MPs performed by Albanians from Albania and Croats from Croatia? This is the responsibility of all 18 leaders of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, as all in turn invited Serbs first to register and then to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. The democratic opposition to Serbia is responsible because it has not adequately responded to the public performances of 14 parties from Vojvodina seeking to pass the constitution. Bringing the constitution means Vojvodina - a republic, not Vojvodina - an autonomous province. One of the DOS leaders who is also president of the Vojvodina Assembly said they are no longer interested in autonomy, but only in the republic now. No DOS has adequately responded to such advances by the leader of Vojvodina, DOS leader. Respecting Mr. Marsican's personality and personality, Ms. Micic, the Serbian Unity Party cannot support them for the above reasons. We will vote for Mr. Marsican's shift and will not support Mrs. Micic's election as the new president of the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15050	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15051	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a several-hour discussion and a debate on the extraordinary item on the agenda has shown that there are irrevocable differences between the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, on the one hand, and the Democratic Party of Serbia, on the other. At my personal insistence and with the support of all 16 parties -- a member of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, we abstained from the debate, taking our argument to explain the initiative I presented during the afternoon. Given everything the Democratic Party of Serbia has said about us, it is clear that this initiative came at the right time. Serbia needs to know who is in power and who is in opposition. Serbia needs to know who is responsible for the policy under way, and who can be the political force that has a different political concept, a concept that is opposed to the ruling and waiting for its opportunity. The democratic opposition to Serbia has no personal problem with the Democratic Party of Serbia. Our political goals are identical to those of the political goals of the time when we built this coalition together. The Democratic Party of Serbia's stances have since changed radically. You could see for yourself through the appearances of the party's MPs. Without any personal insult, without any personal motive, we will vote for Mr. Marsican's shift as a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which, having the right to come out of our coalition, had a President of the Republic of Parliament. Without any personal motive, Serbia's Democratic opposition will vote against Mr. Marsican, as president of the Republic Parliament, because he is a party representative who has tried three times in a row to bring down the legislative initiatives we have proposed in parliament. Without any personal motive or any personal or party interest, the DOS will vote against Mr Marsican, seeking his shift, because he, as speaker of parliament, no longer has the authority necessary for the normal functioning of this assembly, which rests on respecting the president and respecting the will of the largest parliamentary group. This is not a tragedy for Serbia, this is no coup or coup, this is a reasonable, parliamentary procedure, and I want Serbia to deal with things in this way in the future, in front of MPs, in front of the public, in respect of the arguments, in the emphasis of criticism, which, in itself, raises no question about anyone's credibility. I want to thank Mr. Marsican for his professional co-operation and to reiterate once again that DOS will come out stronger, since there will be no more of that controversy that has been distracting us from the work that we really wanted to do. In what we are doing today, there is not much room for satisfaction from representatives of opposition parliamentary groups. I think that, given everything that is our political intention, they have no reason to be optimistic, because certainly the democratic principles on which DOS rests and those which are our preoccupation will be easier achieved after this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15052	Here you go, Mr. Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15053	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course there's nothing personal here, as well as in the Kum I movie, remember that scene when a friend walks into a friend with a gun, comes to bed, pulls the trigger, pulls that trigger, (I don't have a gun, but I saw a movie) and, before he fires a bullet in his friend's head, he says - nothing personal. Of course, there's nothing personal here, it's a conflict of concepts, it's actually an unfounded proposal for a resolution of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the explanation refers to one part of the possible argument to exclude the DSS from the DOS coalition. So, of course you need to know who the government is and who the opposition is. This has been known since the results of last year's elections were counted. The DSS, as the strongest party to the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, as it was then, of course, and for a long time now, has not, in this form and with this programme, particularly in the work of the executive government, been exposed here today to criticism -- not me, as the president of the Assembly, on the contrary, a very unusual debate. It was those who pleaded not to vote for the resolution of the President of the National Assembly that even raised some objections to be discussed, which may be discussed, that they objected in the way that, as the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution, or the opposite of the Constitution, otherwise to the Rules of Procedure, he performed this function. As for those who will vote for my resolution, there were no such arguments, and hence the little difficulty that now, if in the first reporting, I was talking about reasons, reasons, circumstances in which all this is happening, estimating the debate, expecting an argument on the motion for resolution, I respond to these proposals. So, since these arguments, at least by the proposings, were not, there was a great disappointment that the DOS parliamentary group didn't report here for a word, because we're all people who know each other very well, so we should have heard what it was really about, and so, to talk a little bit about all these things and arguments. So, if that's a disappointment, I have to say right now, I have to be a little personal at the end of this day, that, in addition, I am disappointed with the fact that I will be deprived of the functions of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that we leave the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia if not in worse, then no better condition at all than we inherited from the previous regime, and that is what is actually the worst in this situation. And another thing to say at the very end -- one answer has already arrived today from the actual place of reference -- of course, we will not count Mr Jovanovic as a relevant DOS, we will count on Mr Djindjic -- but he has already arrived at an answer to some of the arguments I have raised, which I stand behind, that there are real reasons and reasons for trying to challenge the parliamentary crisis in Serbia to deepen the political crisis. An unusual answer has arrived, not to say bizarre, but an unusual answer - to the claim that the essence of things is, in fact, in an attempt to prevent the adoption of legislation on co-operation with The Hague tribunal by the parliamentary crisis in Serbia - that it is bizarre (so he said, not me). So, nothing more than that. We expect further debate on this, we expect further debate on this and in this National Assembly, and we will see, in the coming days, what is really going on here. What's good and what's nice about today is that, in a way, again from that press conference Mr. Djindjic held, he closed down, if I may say, one lap. I came out of the Democratic Party in 1991, very little in it, from the post of municipal committee president, the acting president of the committee, after one sentence Mr Djindjic said in a narrow circle, in one of the then large halls, where the meetings of the municipal committees were held, which is that politics in the Democratic Party should be dealt with by people who are willing to sacrifice everything and to use all the benefits that the government provides. In this, finally, something consistent, it was Mrs. Milosevic, as an old co-worker from Vrakar, who certainly knows; in this Mr. Djindjic remained consistent. It was a sentence after which I made a commitment (this was all my colleagues, who were then involved in politics in the Democratic Party, very well known) and stayed in charge of the chairman of the municipal board to the new assembly and then left the Democratic Party. So we haven't actually heard anything new here. Today, the round closes with Mr Djindjic, and for that I really thank him, sending a message from the press conference - the Martian must be removed today. Why is it really a great relief for me to make this statement - because, after this vote and after such a statement, it is a lie from my cheek, which I had shared all responsibility for everything that is happening in Serbia, as someone who is the president of the National Assembly and to whom the Republic Government and the Republic Government are bound. And, by giving this statement and by taking that away from me, by finding that Mr. Djindjic is asking for my resolution, I have a great burden from my heart and a great balance is being removed from me, so I will be able to answer their questions with much more freedom and with much more cheeks to go amongst the citizens of Serbia and with much more ease. To all those I worked with in this House -- and that co-operation, of course, wasn't even close to what it was supposed to be, I mean the presidents of the parliamentary groups, I think of all the MPs, I think we've missed a lot -- thank you for your cooperation. I want whoever is elected president of the National Assembly to build this institution with much more success, that with much more support, if he succeeds in obtaining it among these MPs, he is building this institution so that he enjoys the reputation in Serbia and is the central place where Serbia's policy will be created, in which the control of the Republic government, or the executive government, will be carried out, which is the duty of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15054	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. In that case, I conclude the search. I remind you that, pursuant to Article 12. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the vote on a motion to resolve the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dragan Marsicanin, the Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or public. Any suggestions on how to vote? Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15055	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the decision be made by electronic means, by public vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15056	You put forward a proposal to make the decision by electronic means, by public vote. I put Mr. Jovanovic's proposal to vote. For 137, v 44, abstention 22, was not voted 36, a total of 239 MPs. I find the assembly has accepted Mr Jovanovic's proposal, mostly votes. I have to realize we have a problem. The assembly has adopted Mr Jovanovic's proposal for a public vote and it is absolutely no problem. The problem is, when we decide in public, one is the only way to decide, and that's a roll call. Please calm down. It's a serious moment. We're dissing the president of the assembly. I said what's the problem, let's work in some normal atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15057	In accordance with Article 30, I proposed and the Assembly made a very clear, convincing statement. There is no procedural problem in applying the Parliament’s decision. I'll quote you Article 30. It says: "The National Assembly can relieve the responsibilities of the president of the National Assembly before the time it was elected, according to the procedure foreseen for the election of the National Assembly president. "So this leaves the possibility of applying a different procedure, and that is what we have come to the fore. I don't see that that's a problem. So this section of the Rules of Procedure actually opens up that possibility, and it doesn't rule out any other option.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15058	Mr. Jovanovic, there is no dispute that you put the proposal in place and that the assembly supported him by a majority of votes. I, as chairman, was obliged to warn the Rules of Procedure. However, since most votes have adopted your proposal, I will put it to the vote. This was my responsibility. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15059	Of course you can do everything in this assembly by voting for the most part. But let's not keep Mr. Jovanovic's story that this is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. This isn't meant for the Rules of Procedure. Article 30 says -- if the president is resolved before the time he was elected, he will be resolved by the procedure envisaged for the election of the National Assembly president. The procedure for selecting the president of the National Assembly is governed by Article 13. The Rules of Procedure and it is quite clear: "If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by calling the people's emissaries." There's no other option. Most of the votes you can change everything, but right now it's clear -- either we're going to vote in secret or in public, or we're going to vote in public through these units, but that's also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15060	Here you go, Mr. Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have begun by breaking the Rules of Procedure, by putting this point in order. It's all -- let's get it over with, let's get it over with. Here, I'm resigning uninvited. You are unable to implement the procedure that this congregation building deserves. Come on, guys, do something right so we don't embarrass ourselves in front of ourselves. This assembly will have the next president. That next president is pulling the same thing on himself, what's going on here today. I'm filing an irrevocable resignation to close this story.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15062	The word is Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15063	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 31. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 2nd position reads: "If the President of the National Assembly has suspended the term of office before the time he was elected, the office of the President of the National Assembly, until the election of the new president, shall be held by the oldest vice president of the National Assembly", so I ask you to place the oldest vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15064	Of course, Mr. Nikol you're right this time. It's no problem, otherwise I'm with Mr. Marovic, in case Mr. Marsican's discharge occurred.... Gentlemen, behave yourselves. This is not a football game. This is the Serbian Parliament. So, of course, from the moment we find out that Mr. Marscanin resigned and that his office as Parliament chairman has ceased, he will be taken by the oldest vice president. Since the President of the Assembly, Mr Dragan Marscanin, resigned and that it was in accordance with Article 29(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, his office, ceases at the session at which the resignation was filed or at the next one, in case it was filed between the two sessions, I find that he has ceased his post as National Assembly President. In accordance with Article 31(2), cited provision. Rules of Procedure, I leave the chairmanship of the Assembly to the oldest vice president, Mr Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15065	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I ask you to respect the fact that I am temporary chairman of this assembly, although I am a representative of the congregation minority, i.e. the representative of the SPS. So I ask you not to put me in an awkward situation, not to decide anything but an administrative procedure to conduct the election of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the debate over the president's candidacy has ended in principle, we are moving to elect the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to inform you that I'm in accordance with Article 10. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received one proposal from the National Assembly president. As you have seen, National Assembly President Natasa Micic has been proposed. Allow me to, according to Article 11(5). Rules of Procedure, I set out a list of candidates for the president of the National Assembly. According to the proposal, I am setting out a list of candidates for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The candidate is Natasa Micic. The professional service has delivered to all MPs a proposal for candidates. I remind you, according to Article 12. Rules of Procedure, before the election of the National Assembly president, the National Assembly should decide whether the vote for the president will be secret or public. Dear fellow Members, I propose that the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made by a public vote, by calling the MPs. Any other suggestions? No, there isn't. I'm putting the motion to a vote. For 126, against one, abstentioned 64, did not vote 49, a total of 240 MPs. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of the President of the National Assembly should be held by a public vote, we should call the MPs, as set out in Article 13. Rules of Procedure. Before we go to the vote by calling, I remind you he's a member of 121. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting by the production and, in accordance with that provision, the Secretary of the National Assembly should call on the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name. Each appointed MP pronounces the word "yes", "no" or "abstained". The chairman reiterates the name and last name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines whether he is absent or not. The Secretary of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence, with his name and last name on the list. I am voting on a proposal to elect Natasa Micic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We approach the vote by calling the MPs. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement. Alexic Bojana - v., Andric Vladimir - v., Andric Ivan - za, Andric Dr Milena - za, Angelković Dušica - za, Angelkovic Zoran - za, Antonijević Dr Vuko - v, Arnerić Neda - za, Arsic Veroljub - v, Arsic Joca - does not want to vote, Adžić Slobodan - v, Babić Dragoš - za, Bajić Rade - does not want to vote, Bajčetic Prof. Predrag - za, Baralić Rajko - does not want to vote, Beretić Anita - za, Bešević Branko - za, Biač Anton - za, Binić Dragisa - v, Blažić Dr Branislav - v, Bogdanović Mr Nenad - za, Bošković Zoran - za, Budimović Vlasmir - za, Budišin Dušan - za, Vošetić Toma - do not want to vote, Vojvić Bozidar - v, Veljković Miroljub – v, Veljović Ružica - za, Vješinović Radoslav - za, Vošinović Teodor - za, Vojnović Dragoljuk - za, Vavić Bozidar - no wish to vote, Vović Žražažalić - No, Žaživić Žažak Žaža, Žažić - Ža Ža Ža, Vecić, Vecić, Vecić - No, Vecić, Vecić - No, Vac, Vac, V. Borislav - v, Perić Hranislav - do not want to vote, Petković Dr Dusan - za, Petković Milisav - za, Petrić mr Radojko - do not want to gals, Petrović Marko - v, Petrović Petar - v, Petrović Srdjan - v, Žačević Vitomir - v, Pomorički Mr Branislav - za, Pop - Lazić Gordana - v, Popović Draga - za, Popović Draga - za, Popov Đur - v, Popović Srđa Srđa - za, Radović Miloš - za, Radovanović Vladjan - za, Radovnović - Živić - Živić Živić - Živić is not interested in voting, Radović Momir - does not wish to vote, Radoić Momir - to vote, Radosavljević Aleksandar, Radović - for, Radulović - against, Radulović - Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Slav, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Hr. I ask the MPs to take their seats. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, after we held a vote to elect the National Assembly president, by calling, I conclude the vote and announce the following results: Of the 240 MPs who joined the vote, the candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Natasu Micic, 125 MPs voted , against 79 MPs, a abstentioned one MP, and 35 MPs refused to vote. [[Applause]] Dear MPs, based on your vote, I find that candidate Natasa Micic received most of the votes of MPs who joined the vote and that the National Assembly for President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chose Natasa Micic. Allow me to congratulate Natasa Micic on the election of President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on your behalf and on my behalf. [[Applause]] I ask the elected president of the National Assembly to take charge of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-06-0.u15067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to thank DOS, as a proposing, for this function, and I think the sole basis of this proposal was actually my work so far. I thank all those who have expressed confidence in me by voting, and also those who are not, because they have actually tried to free me from one great obligation and responsibility, because the function of President of the Assembly is primarily one great responsibility, responsibility, and only then honor. I thank everyone one more time. Continuing session on the 11th item of the agenda - Labour Act, discussion in particular - is Monday, at 10.00 hours. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 168 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I find that the use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from being attended by MPs Dusan Golubovic and Momcilo Trajkovic. Dragan Vuksic does not attend in the morning. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. The president of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, on the basis of Article 159 of Position 3 and Article 43(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that, following an urgent procedure, it be put on the agenda of this session of the draft decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2001. I therefore put to the vote the draft president of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, to put the agenda of this session on the proposal to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 113, no one with abstention voted 27, a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE RAD (resuming in particular) The amendment was submitted by the MP Nebojsa Jović. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment, Mr Nebojsa Jovic, want a word? He wants to. )
