ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15069	Dear People's MPs, Article 26, which regulates a working relationship for a certain period of time, I have submitted an amendment to delete the words "or with interruptions" in attitude 1 after the word "permanently" as well as to delete Section 2 as a whole: "In the event of an interruption from Article 1, no interruption of work is considered to be less than 30 working days. "The proposed formulation of Article 26 in the draft labour law is least said, strange. The working relationship is based on both indefinitely and indefinitely, and one and the other lasts uninterrupted. Every termination of employment, so was he even shorter than 30 days, and formally and truly represents an interruption of employment. During that interruption it is possible to exercise labour rights based on work. Such a solution would cause significant difficulties in the process of achieving other rights outside of working relationships, when a worker who has worked for a certain period of time develops a break in employment, such as the right and obligation of social security. As a result of the above, I believe that the proposed amendment should be adopted and that work on a given working time cannot last with interruptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15070	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Toma Busetic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the entire article of the 26th is, in my opinion, controversial. First of all, in the countries of Europe, Western democracies, working for a certain time is mostly a year, limited to that time period. In some countries alone, we have three years and the International Labour Organisation's recommendation is one to three years. I wonder why we went to this restrictive provision for three years when in most Western European countries we have been working for a certain period of time for a year. Why is it not good to predict that working for a certain time can take up to three years? First of all, because a worker or an employee is long kept in suspense whether or not he will be admitted permanently. On the other hand, so far legislation in this area has regulated our work for a certain time for six months plus six months. Of course, there is one big concern here about the payment of contributions, taxes, etc. Although it stands, although the fact that these obligations are, when it comes to working on certain and indefinite times, are the same, but I think the better solution was to work for a certain period of time for a year. So, in addition to keeping a worker in suspense for a long time, on the other hand, the employer can always abuse his/her function, in the sense that he/she keeps workers on jobs that are below his/her professional capacity or below his/her qualities, knowledge and abilities. If we so often refer to Europe, to a developed world, then we should also take those experiences in the right way, and that, specifically, regarding Article 26, would be to limit the work to a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15072	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15073	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is true that this is a very important member of the law, but I will remind you of two important facts: the first one is mentioned by calling for the International Labour Organisation Conventions, - this solution has not come out of the standards and practices that have so far been applied in modernised market economies; and secondly, I will try to introduce you to the trend that is now being built within the European Union. In fact, there, trade unions and employees themselves insist on contracts that have been served for four years. They therefore assume that they are as employees of a more favourable position at a time when they re-contract with their employer, rather than if they are in a position to have a permanent working relationship, an agreed labour contract, which in itself can bind them. They are eligible for conditions that are variable if they believe in themselves and, say, advance in their work. So this doesn't collapse by anything that defines the International Labour Organisation, but at the same time, which is very important, this is a strong incentive in the process of polluting the workforce. Put yourself in the employer's position and see how realistic it is to offer someone a permanent working relationship, how much use does he really have if he is offered a working relationship of three years. This reduces the uncertainty that would follow, let's say, a year's work, and you can't oblige an employer to receive a permanent employment relationship after a year or three years. This contract can be renewed again, and these are now some technical issues that deserve serious debate, but I think this member, as defined, is just a member of the interests of the employees themselves. If employers are to be observed, there is certainly a more favourable version of the contract for a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15074	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to article 26, which was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. For 53, against 100, the abstentions did not vote 13, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Markovic to article 26. For 35, against 106, there are no abstentions, no vote is 25, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MPs Vera Markovic, Branko Pavlovic, Vlatko Sekulović and Miroslav Christodulo. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone submit to the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Vera Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15075	Thank you very much. By accepting this amendment, nothing would change in the essence of this law. Our amendment provides for only the possibility, i.e. the legislator's obligation, to address the problem of the benefited internship, which was previously resolved through the pension and social insurance law. It is therefore provided for only one formulation to establish special rights through the pension and social insurance law, workers working on particularly risky jobs. The Government's reply to this amendment when the amendments were rejected was that it would be settled by the law on pension and social insurance. However, the amendment does not go that way for us to try to solve this problem through this labour law. No, we just want to make a commitment here. Here's what this is about: this is about Article 38 as a way to solve the problem of difficult working conditions, of people working on these risky jobs. Article 38 has only been resolved or offered that the worker can work 10 hours as the smallest fund of the week, up to full time. (which is through this member on part-time work); therefore, to be less exposed to harmful conditions. However, whether he works 10, 12, 15 hours or how many hours he works will be exposed during his working life to health - harmful effects. Benefied internships are absolutely no match for part-time work on special-risk jobs. So there's no way to solve it here, with which benefits. It is proposed that only the category of the benefits of the work experience remain and that it be adopted accordingly. This is very important, temporary, at least at this time and for the next year, two or three, because because of the huge number of unemployed, there will be no decision-making at will, but it will be much more under economic duress, that is, whether or not they will have an unfettered job or not, whether they will have a shortened working week or not, workers will have to accept these jobs. So we're asking them to be further protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15076	Mr Milovanovic, Minister of Labour and Employment, spoke of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15077	The Pension Insurance Act will certainly define this precisely. I think this amendment is in order and will in some way allow for additional protection of employees, so that the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepts it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15078	The word has the People's MP Toma Nikolic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15079	I think it's unacceptable to make up the bill without any specific obligation or responsibility, and so before the laws that are mentioned here are entirely equal. This law is not governed by any other law, so that after that, the legislator must carry out what is required of him by such a university provision, so that there is no punishment. You're missing the story, then we should dictate by each member of the law that something else is legislating. We should dictate- and the law on child welfare, and the law on pension insurance of many laws in at least 30, 40 members should be dictated, to resolve some obligations that will arise under this law. This doesn't mean anything. It can be used in public as - well, MPs have proposed, the government has accepted. This means nothing, neither for the application of this law, nor for the adoption of laws on pension and disability insurance. This is advice, this is not a provision that someone has to respect. The minister knows it very well, but today he's trying to look like someone who wants to work with the Assembly. Do not cooperate with these authorities, cooperate with the opposition, with the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15080	Thank you. The Prime Minister has agreed and accepted the amendment, but since we do not have the board's opinion, I will put to the vote amendments tabled by the MPs that I have listed on article 27. Please state by voting. For 107, no one with abstentions voted 58, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the amendment to Article 27 has been accepted. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 29th amendment. The government, the Labour Committee, the martial arts and social issues did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 104, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. National MP Radojko Petric has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 29a be added after article 29a. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15081	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, in Article 28. The proposal for this law provides that a working relationship can also be based on part-time work, for an indefinite or fixed period of time. Article 29 regulates the rights of employees working part-time. I have submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member, which would read "Employee who works part-time with one employer, can start a full-time working relationship with another employer for the rest of his time". The text of the proposed amendment is clear enough. No further explanations are required. In fact, rules of conduct must be laid down in the law in advance, so that they are clear for both the employee and the employer. To enable an employee who works part-time to be able to establish a full-time working relationship with another employer, without having to give him consent to do so, or to prevent him from establishing a full-time working relationship - this was regulated by the former Article 39. The labour law. That wasn't controversial. I can't even see now that this has any damage to any side, any employer, any employees. It just explains the situation and there's no threat to the right of either side. But still, it'll keep the employer from saying, well, you work four hours with me, you can't work anywhere else, you don't have that right, I just want you to work four hours with me. Although this isn't really an essential question, it's not insignificant. That is why I believe that this amendment should be accepted because it will be better for both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15082	Thank you. Mr Milovanovic, the Minister of Labour and Employment, spoke of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15083	The law provides for a weekly working hours of 40 hours. In principle, this amendment does not essentially change anything but only explains things, in a way precise things, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15084	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Prime Minister has accepted the amendment, but since we do not have the opinion of the board, we must declare ourselves by voting. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 150, against one, abstentioned 6, was not voted 13, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 99, the abstentions were not voted 29, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment were submitted by MPs Vera Markovic, Branko Pavlovic, Vlatko Sekulović and Miroslav Christodulo. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15085	The essence of the amendment is very simple. We ask that the traineeship be completed with the mandatory pass of the trainee's exam, which gives the employee the right to conclude a contract of employment with the employer with whom he has completed his traineeship or with whom he has been trained. What is the reason for submitting this amendment? Very simple. The employer can take work, under these conditions - without passing a trainee's exam, young people who are highly qualified (because traineeship is mainly required for high-skill jobs), to pay them up to 80% of the full amount of compensation and to thank them for their cooperation and for taking other young people after the senior traineeship. You don't need to talk about it - young people who work during traineeships are as motivated as they are to stop the job and show great interest. So they achieve much more productivity than people under contract. This is why we are looking for a preliminary exam, where either a young man or a young man would get (under the same conditions) a full-paid job or get a certificate on a passed trainee's exam, and he could use that certificate to go to second place if there is no job available here. So we ask that young people be protected this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15086	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Please, MP Toma Busetic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my opinion, Article 35 of the Law, is controversial because it is not precisely defined as a trainee. You know, in the current law, it is clearly said that people with medium professional training have six months of traineeship, with a higher nine, with high, masters and doctors of science have a year. The second point is that the traineeship lasts for the longest year. Such a formulation can lead to abuse, in the sense that the employer also determines that a semi-skilled worker has a traineeship for a year or an even worse solution - that even workers who take a course of three or six months have a traineeship of one year. In my opinion, this article 35 is controversial because it has not precisely defined the status of trainee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15088	Thank you. The word came from Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15089	Neither the bill nor the amendment has cleared a very big question, firstly history, whether the label - the trainee is prescribed from European legislation or inherited from ours. That brings up a lot of questions. So far, the intern has founded a permanent working relationship. He had a traineeship, followed him by a trainee's exam, and, if he passed the trainee's exam, his working relationship couldn't be broken. The legislator already allows the employer, in an explanation of the refusal of the amendment, to conclude a working relationship with the trainee at a certain or indefinite time. This means under the conditions of adjudication that are being prepared for this country and give the god of some of your foreign capital and give God some of your strategic partners, no one will hire trainees because the law says - as a trainee can be employed. On the other hand, and when he hires him, he hires him without obligation, because he can say, I'm starting a contract with an intern for six months, for a year; and then there's no longer any obligation to that intern. Neither has the traineeship expired, nor will that internship mean anything in the society that is coming to us - it's obvious. On the other hand, the amendment has not been corrected by the text of the bill in order for the trainee to base exclusively a permanent working relationship, a working relationship on indefinite times. It's inhumane with a child, whether it's 19, 23, 24, 25 years old, after finishing school, to start a traineeship contract for a certain time. I think we should either throw out those trainee provisions at all in the future or, if those kids are already interns, protect them in the way that they need to be protected. They finished school, never worked, never hired, with their knowledge, with the knowledge of those who helped them master the traineeship, they exaggerated into the knowledge needed by the employer, and the employer must have planned something when hiring an intern, I guess, planning it on some longer term. If so, then the law should be clear and certain - the trainee should establish a working relationship for indefinite time, and from the trainee's exam (and here we tried to help you, so we suggested that the labor contract also contains that provision, and how long the traineeship will take, and who will make up the commission), that it depends whether the child stays on permanent work or not, and not whether the contract was based on a fixed or indefinite time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15090	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by a group of MPs on Article 35. Please state by voting. For 69, against 82, with 8 abstentions, did not vote 6, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petric submitted to the 38th amendment. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15091	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, in Article 38. The proposal for this law has been regulated to reduce working hours, with a relatively harmful effect of working on health and the working ability of an employee, up to 10 hours a week. With my amendment, I suggested that this 10-hour limit be deleted. In fact, it is normal for working hours to be shortened by the relatively harmful effect of working conditions. As much work and work conditions are particularly difficult, difficult and harmful to health, it is normal that, as so far, experts of various profiles, and primarily medical experts, determine. Based on their findings, work hours should be shortened. Let's take an example of the setting up of the benefits of a work internship -- there are commissions at the level of the Republic and they determine what jobs these are to be recognised as the benefits of a work experience. Isn't it normal to apply the same analogy here? Secondly, let's take jobs in foundries, smelts, working underwater, etc., where the worker works the clock, and the clock rests, or two hours for work, and two rests - cannot meet this quota of 30 hours of work. So let's leave it to the expert commissions to determine how long it's working time and how long it takes, whether it's 35 hours a week or 28, let those competent bodies decide. Given the forwards, I think it's illogical to max out this 10-hour work-time cut, from 40 to 30, so accept the amendment. So, the competent commissions at the republican level should determine that, as is the case with the benefits of the internship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15092	Anybody else answer for a word? There is a word from MP Toma Busetic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of this amendment is that there is no limit to short working hours. Here it's limited to 10 hours a week, which means it's approximately 6 hours a day. There are jobs that are extremely difficult, extremely complex, in terms of technology; in no way should this limitation be made to 10 hours a week, or 6 hours a day, because, simply, and the time ahead, meaning the arrival of dirty technology in the West, will require that certain jobs be carried out with significantly shortened working hours. However, it is obvious that the new government has defined itself for this model, the Western model of liberal capitalism, wild capitalism, and our government forgets that this model has long been abandoned in the West. Simply, in both America and Western Europe, there is significant national internationalism, there is a regulation of market economy. The government here leaves it all to foreign bosses to regulate what they want. I think this amendment, related to short working hours, should be accepted; this should not be limited because there are many reasons for such a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15094	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to article 38, which was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. For 48, against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14, a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15095	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, my amendment refers to a member of the 39th proposed law, which regulates the overtime of employees. It refers to the position of the 2nd member of the 39th proposed law, and predicts that the overtime of employees will not be over four hours a day. In my amendment, I ask that after saying "four hours a day", they add the words "not more than ten hours a week" and that the rest of the words are deleted by the end of the sentence. What is the essence of this amendment? This amendment aims to protect employees because, otherwise, the employer could introduce an overtime of four hours three months in a consecutive manner, which I think is just a modern kind of slave exploitation of workers. I respect the need for employers to come up with periods when people need to increase production and meet certain deadlines, quality and so on, according to suppliers, or customers. I do not think this amendment deprives that possibility, i.e. it gives the employer the opportunity to work overtime, but at the same time protects workers from being overly engaged when it comes to overtime. The employer may, if this amendment is adopted, also hire employees over certain working hours, but no longer than 10 hours. In an explanation of the government for the refusal of this amendment, given by counterpart Tomislav Nikolic's amendment to the same member, it is said: which, in accordance with international conventions, provides him with a holiday between two consecutive working days of at least 12 hours. If we're really looking at the conditions in which our workers, in most cases, work, I don't think this longer engagement of workers can provide a vacation between two working days of 12 hours. Many workers lose an hour and two travelling to work, because their place of residence is far from their job, so they still need to return and practically don't have enough time to rest - and every day, I think it's a real burden for the workers. With this amendment, we would not reduce the possibility of hiring an employer, and in some ways we would protect employees. That is why we believe and urge you to accept, especially the minister, to accept this amendment, because I don't think it would damage the employer, and it would protect the employees to a significant extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15096	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment to Djura Lazic is very correct and very good, so I expect the minister to come out after me and accept our proposal, and it is that the restriction of overtime is the essence of this proposal. Overtime work can't be longer than 10 hours a week. That solution was in the current law. According to this new proposal, we have four hours a day, up to 240 hours a calendar year, and that means that the employer can keep a worker for three months on a continuous basis for four hours a day in overtime, which is not good. There's a lot of reason here which are the reasons when an employer can introduce overtime, so it's said there's some work to be done and it's not planned. The employer can say at any time that there are jobs to be completed and not planned. Overtime work must be tied up, at least when it comes to four hours, only for some jobs that are exceptional, when something extraordinary happens: fire, flood, earthquake, etc. For this long hours, for this long or overtime, I think it's a very useful proposal and it needs to be accepted. I expect the ruling majority to have an understanding of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15098	The word has the Minister of Labour and Employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15099	Just a little bit of explaining, so it doesn't turn out that we're forcing people to do a lot more overtime than they should. Under current law, they can work longer than 10 hours a week. When you recalculate it is 480 hours right now, and we predicted 240 a year. I think this is a solution that we've suggested much more favourable for the ranches than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15100	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic. (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: A true expert. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15101	I think, Mrs. Micic, that we are all equal to you now and that you should remind those who earn us. I thought they were getting it because the Martian allowed it, and it looks like who was born that way, how the cradle rocked it. I would like to explain the position of the Serbian Radical Party on this amendment and the amendment that we have given to this same member of the Law. Namely, MP Djura Lazic requests that overtime be reduced to a maximum of 10 hours a week, and we have suggested that daily overtime be reduced from four hours to two hours a day. It is true that the legislator did not comply with the law with European legislation because the provision existed in the current law, Article 52 provided that the vacation between the two visits to work, between the two works, would be 12 hours a day. It's an old provision that has long been applied in this country. That provision is impossible to implement. It would be nice if a man in the village had a factory and straight from the factory in five minutes at home, and then he has 12 hours of rest a day. In industrial cities, that's impossible. You have at least an hour to get to work and to get to work, and industrial workers working in industrial areas, not related to their housing, using several non-solid transports, sometimes three hours a day. I've worked overtime many times in my life, so I want those who've never worked, or those who've never worked overtime, to say what it looks like. You need to be taught, and don't run away from being taught something you don't know. Overtime work should be an exception, not a rule. This wide-ranging possibility for the employer to always introduce overtime, and only to worry about a 12 hours break between the work of one worker, can enable him to use the worker continuously for four hours a day until the annual overtime fund expires. It's called depletion and fatigue of workers; and it's allowed by law, it's legal, so it's recommended. I hope that in our country laws are proposed by those who think the laws are good and recommend that the laws are respected. They recommend the employer to leave the worker to work for four hours a day; to have fewer workers; to take advantage of the worker for six months (this one will then go to sick leave), but will work for another who has not used the annual fund. After a few years, the worker is no longer physically capable of doing his job normally, but Serbia is a market with over two million good, strong, healthy workers - until they are exhausted, not spent, until they are all crushed by an industrial machine. In this country, employers will start their production, start their factories, and our children will arrive, who will have to be hired again under the same conditions as their fathers. It's not good gentlemen you represent, very fragile, most of them in this room. With one or two votes of privilege in the National Assembly to pass a law concerning all of us in this country is not good. Maybe you should have thought about it a little bit more. I don't argue that our law had really wide-ranging rights, but I argue that slave law should be passed. I think we're just ruining this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15102	The People's Messenger, Toma Busetic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15103	It's obvious that the minister and I have different laws, at least when it comes to a valid, current law. The current or current law on overtime, as regulated in Article 44, says: "The work of longer than full-time, in terms of attitude one and two of these members, cannot last longer than 10 hours a week per employee." There's talk of health care facilities. Article 45: "Work longer than full-time, in the sense of the position of the 1st member, cannot last more than 10 hours a week per employee." Article 46: "Employee is obliged to work longer than full-time and more than 10 hours a week when damage or danger arises," and says: "1st elemental accidents, earthquakes, floods, land slopes, droughts, eruptions etc.2. Fire, explosions, 3rd epidemics or contagion, 4th water pollution, groceries, 5th car accident or other accident, etc.".
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15104	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to article 39, which was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. For 56, against 100, the abstentioned were not voted nine, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 100, two abstentions, 14 did not vote, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my amendment, I have predicted that Article 41 adds a new position to the 1st, which reads, "The working day takes eight hours as a rule." Namely, we had (from Articles 36 to 41) full-time regulation; part-time; part-time; overtime; one non-consistent and inconsistent way. This is about how many hours a week, the worker has a duty to work instead of going from what is basic, to start from day to day. It's something that represents the fluid of a labour struggle, (no matter what we are representatives of the moderate right), something that also represents a civilizational liquid, not only from the 20th century, but even from the end of the 19th century, which had to be accepted in this law. Why am I saying this? Because many other provisions are unconsistently implemented, because when it is said that it can work for a maximum of 12 hours a day, and not more than 240 hours of overtime on an annual basis, it is something that can, in the light of such a law, be interpreted as completely different, that it is interpreted completely wrong and exclusively to the harm of workers. In fact, if one of the workers works every 12 hours for three months -- and according to this law, he can stop working, because he has blue and not brown eyes, because he doesn't like the employer, or he wants to hire someone younger -- he's no longer capable of any work, or anyone so exhausted and so ruined, in the right physical sense of the word, he wants and wants to receive it. That is why I believe that the employer should not be disturbed, nor should the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has proposed such a law, be accepted that the working day should normally take eight hours. This is one precision, after which it would be incomparably clearer to everyone that it is a rule after which a different extension of working time can be accepted, especially when it comes to overtime, there is a third alternative condition. There are three words: first in case of force majeure; second due to a sudden increase in the volume of work; third, and in other cases, when it is necessary to complete a job that is not planned. It can be widely interpreted, it gives enormous authority to the employer, and it gives workers almost no rights. That's why we think this amendment should be accepted and I don't think the government should mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15106	The word has Minister Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15107	This amendment specifies the duration of working hours. I think this amendment also accepts the amendments of Peter Petrovic and Vladimir Garcevic. So the government accepts Mr. Vukic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15108	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15109	Which would oblige me whether the minister accepted or not? In fact, all the union world struggle as one of the priority goals had a 19th century struggle to determine working time. We now, after several years in which we have had a fixed 40 hours (even as full-time) and in many sublegal acts are no longer spoken of for 40 hours but of full-time hours as a term for 40 hours), try to adapt to the employer by offering him conditions that are inhuman and which he does not have in the West. There's a certain working time in the West. Why would we be a state where there's no strict working time? Because if you connect it to a article in 41 where the working week lasts for five working days, and this law can regulate itself differently, then we go to infinity -- we don't know how many working days it takes, we don't know how many hours a week, then it would really go to infinity. This amendment must be accepted not because the minister is depressed today, but because we are solving one of the basic trade union rights and because such a member will be satisfied with both the employer and the worker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15110	Although the minister has accepted this amendment, since we do not have a report from the Committee, I will put the amendment to the vote. Please state by voting. For 129 against four, two abstentions, 17, a total of 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. ) (Petar Petrovic: The same is the amendment. Are you giving up the amendment? Yeah. ) I find that MP Petar Petrovic has given up the amendment. National MP Vladimir Garčević submitted to the 41st amendment. Since it is the same thing, does MP Vladimir Garcevic give up his amendment? (Vladimir Garčević: I am not giving up, but it is included. So you're giving up. (Vladimir Garcevic: I am not giving up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15111	Please, in the case of amendments that are in the same text, when one is accepted, all three amendments are accepted, as well as read - that they are accepted. Amendments Petrovic, Garčević and Vukic are accepted, which is the first in line with the circumstances. Therefore, all three amendments are accepted. If not, then let them vote on everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15112	Did I understand that you insist that we vote on your amendment, and the text is not identical because it differs in commas? Mr. Garcevic, I'll put your amendment to the vote if you don't want to withdraw it. I understand you've withdrawn the amendment? Then, I put on the vote amendment that he submitted... I've already given you my word to explain it, well, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15113	Since in most cases the law protects the employer, and the worker is left with as many opportunities and protection as the employer has will, and wishes, then in that situation we find appropriate that some things should be specified. In detailing that working week lasts for five days, I suggested that the working day generally lasts eight hours, which I don't think is the opposite, what is true in most countries, and that workers should also be protected from the abuse of unconscious employers. I suggest you make your statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15114	I also find that the amendment of MP Vladimir Garčević was accepted, as it is the same text with the amendment submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The differences were in the loops. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Garčević. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15115	Here, since in most cases some MPs are not even familiar with the member, Article 43 of the Law speaks of redistribution of working hours. Since this article has left a broad possibility for the employer to use, and sometimes to abuse the redistribution of working time, I suggested that the article 43 after the word "work" should be deleted, which means that depending on the nature of the work, work time can be re-scheduled. One example is agriculture, construction and so on, that no broad opportunities are left, given that a large number of workers are still unemployed, they will double. I think it's essential that the employer, if he has the need to speed up the operation, be quick to finish certain jobs, engages new workers on the labour market. This will allow you not to go to the so-called so-called. It's part-time work, but it's working with the staff that's waiting. Because by the way it goes, after six months without a job, they're going to run out of cash, so I think it's right and humane to limit this part to working hours, to redistributing working hours when it comes to the nature of the work. I'm asking the Minister to accept one of these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15116	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go. ) Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15117	I don't think this amendment should be accepted. First, this new member of the bill does not change the essence and so far the provisions in force, it is not necessary in this sense to narrow down the rights that the employer had so far, but I just have a little bit of a misunderstanding, as the employer will later resolve it. I mean, if full-time was really 40 hours a week, everything would be fine. However, there would be respect for the provision of what is longer than full-time work, in which conditions and all. However, we in Article 36(1) say that "full time" is 40 hours a week, unless this law is otherwise arranged. Will it now be the basis of the employer to determine that it is not 40 hours full-time. Namely, what is missing from this bill? It's missing whether the full-time tag is 40 hours a week or 40 hours a week if the law isn't arranged differently. It would seem that full-time hours are 40 hours a week, and what the law did differently to be an exception and to be called otherwise. At that time, relations between workers and employers would be quite clear, and of course there are more basics to be introduced on, should not be shortened, should not be deleted behind the words "activity", because you will recognise the needs of work, because they sometimes require different thinking about work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15118	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 18, against 87, the abstentioned were not voted 36, a total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the same legal possibility. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? Please, MP Toma Busetic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15119	This article of 44th suggests that in case of redistribution of working hours, the working hours of the week cannot be longer than 60 hours, and that is no limit, that means five working days times 12 hours and that's the 60 hours. Our proposal, MP Baralic's proposal, is to limit it to 50 hours. It's something similar to the amendment of our MP, Đura Lazic. I think this is quite concrete and relevant and that at least we should accept this, if you didn't want the previous one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15120	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, against 87, the abstentions were not voted 24 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member may best speak about the attitude of DOS-Malien authority towards the worker. During the former dictatorial regime, workers could rest between two working days for 12 hours, and now that democracy has come to the big door, only ten hours. My amendment applies to Article 46, but in order to explain it, I have to start with Article 43, which refers to the redistribution of working time. The legislator speaks quite broadly of the possibilities and reasons why the employer can redistribute his working hours. It is the nature of work, the organisation of work, the better use of labour resources, the more rational use of working time and the execution of certain work within specified deadlines. Almost always, therefore, can decide to redistribute the working hours so that the worker works 14 hours a day and has 10 hours of rest between two working days. If we assume that it takes him a while for him to leave and come home from work, he really can't, no matter how capable he is, and he's not perpetum of the mobile -- our people are extraordinary, but they're not so able to work without a vacation -- at least to sleep at home. Also, it can't have any work results, and we know that the promoter here predicted that if he didn't meet certain requirements, or no work results were expected, he could get fired. In conditions like this, and working as the legislator predicted, it is unlikely that our workers will receive a healthy pension at 65 years of age. And this is also the aim of the legislator, or our government. They don't want pensioners, and if they get a pension, our pensioners won't be enjoying their pensions for long.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15122	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15123	The provision of Article 52 clearly states that employees have the right to rest between two working days of at least 12 hours continuously, and a clause has been introduced, if this law is not different. Just because of this article, then by bringing number 10 to digit 12, we regulate this part of the entire Labour Act. I don't see any excuse that this is about jobs that are longer than full-time in a certain period of time, shorter than full-time, and that reduces the rest between two working days to ten hours. There's no excuse. Imagine, a man still works longer than full-time, so cut him to 10 hours rest between two working days, and he comes back to work, even though the next day he works shorter than full-time. His vacation, his collection of energy, his mental rest didn't last long enough to be able to work again so that the employer would be satisfied and not come under the influence of a member of the law, which stipulates that if the worker doesn't show enough business skills, he can get fired. There is no excuse at all that the vacation between two working days will be reduced to 10 hours. Justification is not even so if he worked shorter than full-time, and especially not if the worker worked longer than full-time. It just takes him 12 hours between two working days, working days, regardless of the length of working hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15124	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to the vote, which was submitted to the 46th by senior MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 27, against 91, the abstentions are gone, did not vote 19, out of 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic - Trifunovic. The government accepted the amendment by proposing a legal-technical editorial of the text of the amendments. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, with a legal-technical editorial proposed by the government. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with a legal technical regulation proposed by the Government, agreed by the applicant for the amendment at the Committee session, is legally possible. I realize that this amendment, with the legal technical regulation proposed by the government, has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Radojko Petric submitted to the 48th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15125	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, Article 48. The proposal for this law provides for the following: "Employee whose working relationship has ceased before the time for which the redistribution of working hours is over, has the right to be recalculated at full-time and admitted to retirement or to be counted as hours of work longer than full-time work. "I have proposed with my amendment that the addition of this member be carried out and that it be said that employees decide on it. The law should not leave indeterminateness and that there are later conflicts between the employer and the employee in practice. What alternative will be accepted is not to be decided by the employer. He will always manage the goal of paying less taxes and contributions. Whether overtime will be recalculated in full-time or paid as overtime should be decided by employees. And it's in the first row to give him that opportunity, because he's out of a job. Consider the example of a construction worker. During the construction season he works 12 hours, what's already been adopted. I don't know, some two- or three-month fund, where it can be entered into the book as a retirement internship, not as an overtime. When he's out of a job, why wouldn't they give him that opportunity? I don't see that there's any reason for any damage to either employer or employee. I think you should really accept this, too, that there's no reason to reject this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15126	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 15, against 96, the abstentioned were not voted 12, a total of 123 MPs. Since it is necessary for the vote to take part in the vote by 126 MPs, I find that this vote is not correct and I ask that a quorum be established for the amendment to Article 48, which was tabled by MP Radojko Petrovic. According to the electronic system, voting isn't right. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I realize we don't have a quorum to work with and I'm setting a break until 12.30. I ask all MPs to be in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please let us determine if we have a quorum to continue the session. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. I'm sorry the break was longer, but he was sitting on the board of directors, so I was waiting for the report. We must repeat the vote on the amendment to Article 48, which was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 19, against 109 abstentions, two total 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since this break has been longer because of the meeting of the Administrative Board, I suggest we do today's work without a break provided for by the Rules of Procedure. I'm putting that proposal to a vote. I'm asking the National Assembly to make a statement about it. For 95, against 11, the two abstentions, did not vote 27, a total of 135. I find that a proposal has been accepted that the National Assembly is now in session without a break. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 50th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 14, versus 108, the abstentions were not, 20 totals were not voted 142. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15128	Ladies and gentlemen, members of the 50th regular break - rest during daily work. The first position of Article 50 provides that a full-time employee shall be entitled to rest during a daily work period of at least 30 minutes. This amendment asked for a new position 2 to be added - extremely, employees who, in accordance with Articles 43 and 44, are members of the law concerning redistribution of working hours, or when workers work longer than eight hours and who are entitled to only ten hours of rest between two working days, means when working longer than ten hours a day, they have the right to a daily vacation of at least one hour. Unaccepting this amendment, the government has given reason that there is no legal obstacle to the contract predicting that the holiday lasts longer. But, of course, the employer's interest is not to be longer, but to stay at the legal maximum, and therefore we asked that the law explicitly states that in cases like this, when workers work longer than ten hours, that vacation is one hour. We also asked for a new position to be added after Article 3. - that employees working on heavy and dangerous jobs, with dangerous chemical substances, divers, underground workers, case workers, glass blowers, etc. have the right to a more frequent working-time holiday, which shall be determined by specific provisions and contracts, in accordance with the working-protection Regulation. In this way, they would force the employer to regulate the individual contract to be a mandatory position of the individual contract and thus to protect workers working under difficult conditions, not to leave the possibility for the employer to decide for himself. Because we're sure - they won't decide against their own interests, nor will they protect the interests of the workers. We are thinking here, too, and we are asking this amendment to protect the health of workers, because they are workers who work with dangerous substances, in difficult conditions and are forced to work for more than eight hours a day because of the redistribution of working time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15129	Anyone else want a word? There's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15130	Ladies and gentlemen, it was quite an accident that a member of the 50th law and Article 50 so far were struck. The bill deals with the exact same matter and very much the same, I'd say. However, as you think you are making the laws, you can see by providing quorums at this session, and how you think you respect them, it is seen by the decision you have made - that you do not, today, provide for workers in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and for MPs, the right to rest during the working day. (A voice from the O.R.: There is no rest, while the restoration takes place.) ( ) Only you are renewing your relationship, this would be much more important to you, for this second renovation you are not able to do. We ended it almost entirely before you were born. Article 50 of the current law, paragraph 1, reads: "Employee has the right to rest during a daily work period of 30 minutes, which cannot be used at the beginning and at the end of working hours". You have now decided by a questionable majority in the Assembly that employees do not have that 30-minute rest during the working day, just because you think that most things can be done. Well, that's the attitude you have to the Labour Act, that is, to employees whose relations with your employer you regulate a new labour law. There must be a rest during the day's work, there must be an employee, all over the world, there are in all those countries that dictate your terms and in all those countries whose legislation you call upon when you present to us here any legal project. If you'd come down to the mine once, you'd have gone into the tunnel, don't give God up in a box, because there wasn't a 19-year-old me, when I was healthiest, I couldn't get in, you'd know that there are certain jobs that require necessarily not just a vacation during working hours, but a much longer vacation during working hours. I appreciate the humor of people, but it's not right if it's the only feature of someone in this congregation. I would much prefer that those who know how to figure out what to get, can make sense of what to say about this pay phone. We are truly in an unequal position -- we Serbian radicals, we have to read the bill, we have to write the amendments, we have to figure out what we're going to say about the pay phone, and all you have to do is figure out what you're going to throw away while we're at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15131	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I have to tell you, every decision taken by the National Assembly is doubtless, and we had a break of 30 minutes before we continued to work. We're continuing our work. Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments to Article 50 to vote. For 44, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Members of the 52nd amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15132	I know that in the context of the discussion of article 46, we have already explained enough why we have an amendment to Article 52. The bill, but it's not burning to remind you -- we had a working-time vacation, so maybe in the meantime you forgot. So, the amendment stipulates that the vacation between two consecutive working days takes 12 hours uninterrupted and that this law cannot be determined differently, because it means less, and this is seen in Article 46(2), where you, for employees who work non-standard working hours, who sometimes work longer than full-time, sometimes shorter, provide for a holiday between two working days of at least 10 hours uninterrupted. The legislator should remain in doubtful good definition - that the holiday must last 12 hours uninterrupted and not provide for exceptions, especially not to provide for exceptions that are not only at the expense of employees, but also at the expense of the production process. A tired worker can't be a businessman, like a rested worker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15133	Thank you. Does anyone answer for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 103 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 55th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15134	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this member regulates the duration of vacations. It is incomprehensible and I think that the bill promoter owes us an explanation why he did not systematicise the length of the annual vacation period for the employees, why he set a member of 55 only a minimum of 18 working days, and item 2 reads: "The length of the annual leave is determined depending on the length of the insurance, working conditions and other criteria established by the general act or contract of work". Well, it's obvious that the legislator only cares about employers. Why isn't it maximum for vacation? How long will it take an annual vacation per employee who is 30 years of insurance, who works on certain conditions 24, 26, 28, or 30 working days? Why are there no criteria, that is, why have the criteria that we had in the Labour Law been deleted so far? To whom will you leave the criteria of the employer and the employee to negotiate themselves? Have we not shown in the debate so far that there will be no agreement? The employees will have to accept the terms of the employer, or they will have no business. Why didn't you set the criteria for your vacation? Is that how it is in the West, that you don't know how many employees have a vacation and that you don't know the maximum for every employee, even if he was 50 years old, even though he was 65 years old. What's the maximum vacation rate? Two months, five, a year? Why did the Law remain unspeakable? Why does it only determine a minimum of 18 days? How many employees will she have with 20 years of internships, what with 25, what with 30? It was the duty of the legislator. This is not for individual acts, but for one general act, for the law, it's legal matter - that in the same way the duration of the annual vacation is regulated throughout the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15135	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 96, there are no abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15136	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, in Article 55. The draft law provides that for each calendar year, employees have the right to an annual vacation in the duration of a general act or contract of work, and at least 18 working days, and that limit is that minimum, as previous MP Nikolic also spoke. With my amendment, I suggested that the following supplement be made: "Employed from 30 years of retirement or completed 55 years of life and employed - women from 25 years of retirement or over 50 years of life, as well as employees under 18 years of age, have the right to an annual vacation of at least 30 working days". So they're guaranteed that minimum, not just 18 days. I think it is necessary for employees with years of retirement and certain years of life, meaning older workers, as well as workers under the age of 18, to be guaranteed the right to a long vacation. This question must not be left to the employer. The length of the vacation I have proposed has already been accepted in our current practice, and also in several European countries workers, with years of internships and years of life guaranteed a longer holiday. Let us take an example of Germany, whose law served as a model and see how many workers there have vacations. I think this minimum that is guaranteed is insufficient, that even in the West, some minimum is foreseen for older workers and for younger than 18 years. That's why I think it's appropriate for this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15137	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that the adoption of this law will reduce annual holidays. Here, the promoter identified a minimum of 18 days and further criteria further mentions the length of the internship, insurance and working conditions. Of course, the previous law or the applicable law of this matter of annual holidays better regulates and gives greater rights to employees, which will be determined very quickly if this law is adopted. It is simply that many other criteria are deleted here that are extremely important: disability, single parents, parents who have more than three children, persons who have over 55 years of life or over 30 years of training, persons who are under 18 years of age, all of which are missing, and should be regulated by just one act, or law, but the government is defined as restrictions, to reduce the rights of workers and all employees. The adoption of this law will certainly reduce annual vacations, i.e. the length of vacations, and perhaps the law will not be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15139	Mr Tomislav Nikolic also answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that because of our public, we need to say one more word about our vacations, even though some of us have to be recognized for not being able to work. There is no worker in the world who doesn't think about annual vacations as the part of the year in which he should rest, not as if a whole year should be a vacation. So far, the law has defined everything. The National Assembly defined the adoption of the Labour Law. If you adopt the Labour Act everything will remain an employer, exclusively an employer. Why should he remain an employer to determine whether a single mother, with a minor child up to 14 years of age, will have two more days of vacation or not? How to leave the employer who bombed us to predict the wartime military invalid, who remained disabled during the bombing, gave another two days of extra vacation. Which would interest the German, your German, whether a mother has three children or not, so that for a third child, she gives two more days of vacation. The current bill allowed collective agreements or other acts to increase the legal minimum, some other items to be agreed between the employer and the employee, which were not provided for by law. You don't foresee any by law. You only predict 18 days, everything else to regulate the employer and the employee, which means the employer. He has great opportunities to conduct his will to the employee: to change his work contract because circumstances have changed; to assess that he does not meet at work; to receive him constantly in a working relationship at a certain time, to an endless end; not to have to conclude a contract on work. You did not accept the amendment that, with an employee, whose automatic working relationship with a certain person has grown into an indefinite, employer within 15 days must enter into a labor contract, there is no such thing as the bill, no amendments are accepted. The charges that come from all sides at the expense of those who will vote in favour of this bill have been fully proven. Yes, you represent the interests of employers (those from the fog, those who are just about to appear, you offer yourself to them by this draft labour law), but here you have a problem with a large number of people employed temporarily, occasionally, fictitiously employed and unemployed. You've defined yourself as the ones that aren't there yet, and it's worth a little thinking about the ones that you've been dealing with when there's a lot of them on the street. It's an old manner of government: as soon as people show up on the street, talk to them and give in; when they're not on the street, there's no danger of them at all. You'll probably have unions back on the street soon. I think you could use sound reasoning, by accepting amendments that won't change the meaning of the law, but it will show employees that the state cares about them, because they are citizens of this country, to avoid the social unrest that will be in this country. Let these riots cause something else, not one law. Let the riots cause mass layoffs, and you say he won't be there and there won't be any unrest. Let it cause a bad social situation for the family, and you say we'll live better and it means there won't be any unrest. Why should you be upset just because of the bill? One more thing, tell the sixth-row guy not to hang out anymore. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15141	I ask the People's Messengers not to interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15142	Let him talk, that I understand him and it's working, but he's using the speech he's used to doing by doing his day-to-day job, I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15143	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15144	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very important issue of legal regulation of the areas of annual holidays. But given everything that is the tradition of our labour legislation, the new draft labour law does not really change that area of law. The current Labour Relations Act, article 53, states: "Employees have the right to an annual vacation of at least 18 days, and a maximum of 25 working days per year". In the draft labour law, which we are considering here today, Article 55 defines the lower limit of the annual vacation of 18 days, leaving a fully open definition of the upper limit through the agreement of the employee and employer. So if, from the perspective of the employee, we are looking at the benefit of a member of the existing Labour Relations Act that we are changing, and this member of the new Labour Law, it is actually in the interest of the workers of this article, which is now being criticised. It is understandable that the opposition uses every opportunity for criticism, but this is a rather problematic interpretation, as the existing Labour Law has established both the upper and lower limits. The year had to last from 18 to 25 days. In fact, in accordance with the IOR Conventions, this new Labour Act establishes the lower limit of the annual leave of 18 days, leaving the employer and the employee to use the employment contract, or collective contract if they conclude it, they determine the circumstances under which the worker will use the annual leave without and the upper limit of 25 days. So I think it's actually much more favourable to this version of article 55 of the new Labour Act that we're proposing and that's why we're going to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15145	The basis for the replica is that you are misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15146	I understand that the explanation of the proposal is not prepared by those who do not want to go out for the pay phone, but those who are going to go out for the pay phone should be prepared well, not to respond to the advice they receive within a minute or two, because they cannot be good advice. I have 30 days of vacation under the existing law, because I have 30 years of employment. It's not true that it's a maximum of 25 days. The maximum is 30 or even 40 days of vacation under the existing law. Here it should only be available with accurate data, not half-truths.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15147	Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I would like to put the amendments submitted to article 55 by MP Radojko Petrovic. For 50, against 99, there are no abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisvoje Drakulovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. ) He wants a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15148	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is about article 60, and it's about the schedule for the annual vacation. In the SPS, we find the second position unacceptable, as well as the third position, so we felt that a plan for the use of annual vacations should be installed somewhere. We think it's a good achievement that's worked so far and doesn't need to be changed. How's this new proposal coming along? Item 2 says: "The solution to the use of the annual vacation is delivered to the employee no later than 15 days before the date set for the start of the use of the annual vacation". You know, 15 days is a little short. People have to plan certain jobs. I'm not going to talk about some vacations now related to various trips, seas, etc., but people are planning their own private obligations, such as housework, painting, making fences, etc. The delivery of the solution for only 15 days is short notice. Next, it's a deal, for example, with a wife or vice versa. The third position: "Employee can change the time set for the use of annual vacations, if required by the needs of work." The employer can always say that job needs require these changes and vacations are delayed. I don't think this is right and that this amendment of ours should be accepted or otherwise resolved. Article 2 and Article 3 are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15149	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15150	It's actually an identical situation, because I'm going to remind you of the current Labour Relations Act, Article 137, paragraph 12. This article shall determine the powers of the Director. The position of the 12th states that the director makes a solution to holidays and leave, and that this solution must be passed on to the employees at least 15 days before the start of the annual vacation. So, I think it's clear that we here have actually respected those trends and rules that already exist in the field of our working legislation and that this does not interfere with anything that has already become part of the working day. It would be good for the congregation to regard it as something that is reasonable in itself. Of course, we can always look for those bad traits in each member, but we are starting from the fact that the employer wants employees in his company to be satisfied and that the employer respects his employees, just as the relationship also applies in the opposite direction. I don't see any reason why there's too much controversy about it now, because these are the powers actually passed on from the director to the employer. So that's something that's worked so far, without some major controversy, in our businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15151	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 95, the abstentioned were not voted 22, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted several amendments, trying to point out to you the fact that many workers' rights are taken away by adopting the proposed labour law, it seems to me, not demagoguely, but in a concrete way, coming off this pay phone, trying to convince government representatives to accept these amendments. As you can see, we didn't find it difficult at all, even if the less important amendments were accepted by the Government, so that it would be good to accept everything, especially those most important. What is it about this amendment? It is important that I read for those who do not have the law in front of them and for citizens who do not know that this is about the schedule for the use of annual vacations. Therefore, point 1 states: "Depending on the need for work, the employer decides on the time to use the annual vacation, with the previous consultation of the employee". Then he says in the second position, "The solution to the use of the annual vacation is delivered to the employee no later than 15 days before the date set for the start of the use of the annual vacation." To accept it all, but then comes the third attitude, which to the greatest extent undermines everything that is said in the previous two attitudes. It's said, "The employer can change time for a certain year's rest, if that's what the needs of the job require." A very broad standard, you can interpret it any way you want; they require the needs of work and within two days, before the employees travel to the sea, before they travel to the mountain, before they travel anywhere, the employer can say - sorry, I was joking, you don't have an annual vacation. The fact that you paid for the arrangement, the fact that you have the opportunity to go somewhere, that you thought you were going to take the kids, that you thought you were going to run the family, the parents, the elderly or anyone else, now you can't because my job needs require me to tell you that you're not going to use your legal vacation. That is why, as a member of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 60(3), which says to be stuck behind the words mentioned and says "only with the consent of the employee". I think that, in a very simple way, it greatly repairs this legal norm and protects the employee, who can't just, because of the need to do the job, say: that you paid off your stay on Zlatibor, Tari, on another mountain, and now you have to cancel it or you're failing because I'm saying you have to stay there. If it goes with the consent of the employee, we protected him, and yet we left the possibility of a deal, the possibility of making some sort of arrangement between the employee and the employer. It seems to me that much of this amendment is acceptable and I call on the Government's representative to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15153	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15154	The government rejected the amendment to paragraph 2, under which it was due to oblige the employer to establish an annual vacation plan for all employees no later than March of the current year. The government explained that the amendment is not accepted because there is no legal interference for the employer to adopt a plan for the use of annual holidays, and according to Article 2(2), the employer is obliged to adopt an individual solution on the basis of such a plan and deliver it to the employee. However, in Section 3, if you do not accept the amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, you amnest the employer for the fictitious plan of taking an annual vacation, and that is because you give him the authority that is too wide to say to the employee on one day before the year's vacation: you have to stay, the job needs require your presence in the workplace. The government says it rejects the amendment because there are cases where a particular job that does not suffer delays has to be completed within the deadline, and it cannot be done to condition the end of the job by consent of the employee. This is where the pots go. Employees have no bearing on whether or not the job will be done. Find me a real employer who doesn't plan his job, not to tell me for decades, but years ahead. There are no employers who in June can surprise the need for workers to go on vacation. Then why are dynamic plans being made, why are annual production plans being made, then why is the employer a serious man who runs his own company? He takes as many jobs as he can finish. No, it's the only thing about monopolies, if you're going to have monopolies so there's no one else to deal with, then he's doing business over his capacity, and when the deadlines for the delivery of goods come, he tells his employees he doesn't have any vacations, they have to finish the jobs. At least in this case you have to give the employee an opportunity to admit that he has a family, we would all like every family to have children, and that children determine when to go on vacation -- that would be mostly at school break. If you do not allow employees to take vacations with their children, do not provide them with vacations in October. It would still be nice if father and mother went on vacation in September or October, and children had to go to school, so they can't go on vacation with their parents. I'm not even talking about these pension payments, it's going to be a wanted noun, in a very long period of time from today and in advance for many employees. It is incomprehensible that employees can now stop production by going on vacations when they are determined by plan to go on vacation. It's not right. And it is not right here from individual parliamentary groups to call upon the endangered rights of employees, and the law runs thanks to their presence in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We will participate in this work to members that we find very important; unless you fix certain members that are very important, we will no longer participate in the vote. I call on the parliamentary majority, apparently the majority against the adoption of this bill, not to allow the debate on this bill to take place. Those who are now minority, who are in power, are either asking for the parliamentary majority or for us to go to a pre-election campaign, to determine who has worked in these years and that this assembly is finally getting a physionomy that is enough for the Assembly to work. This isn't part-time. This is a stretch from today to tomorrow. Here, I'm finishing, I'm sorry, I don't want to go into conflict with you right now at the beginning of your short career, short on the seat of the President of the Assembly, of course, because I see the Martian coming back and that our request for his shift will be current again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15155	Mr. Nikolic, topic and time. Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 41, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, a member of the 60th draft labour law regulates the term of the use of annual holidays. We in the Soviet Parliament group have a somewhat altered view of the time of handing over the solution to the use of the annual vacation. That's why I've set up the next amendment. In Article 60(3), point 3 is inserted and they add the words "at the latest five working days from the date specified for the start of the use of the annual vacation". Each employee plans to use his annual vacation, depending on his needs and opportunities and depending on the time of the annual vacation of his family members. The proposed amendment aims to enable employees to be better organised, in the event of a change of time set for the use of annual holidays, so as not to have adverse consequences. Here's another explanation, in favor of my amendment. We know that material opportunities in most families dictate that complete families use vacations at the same time, especially those families that have children of school age. The financial situation does not allow them to go on vacation separately, but to go collectively or familyly. So they're tied to school and winter vacations, etc. This article envisions a 15-day deadline for the delivery of an annual holiday solution. I believe it can be accepted within five days, contrary to my predecessors who said it should be two months. But from the above, I say - a man will plan a vacation, the employer will deliver a solution two months ago; however, the financial situation dictates that he cannot use it in that time, so he is forced to make a decision perhaps five or six days earlier, where he will go. That wouldn't change anything here if that last deadline for handing over the annual vacation solution was five days. One more thing to say, by looking at the law as a whole, a lot of union proposals aren't accepted, even from those said 51, 52, I don't know how many amendments. It went down to 30, then maybe 19-20. Therefore, for these reasons, the SSJ parliamentary group will not support this labour law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15157	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For 12, against 102 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 125 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop - Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15158	Even today, as when we adopted the Law in principle, everything depends on Mr. Novakovic, who will experience the glory of the Doli sheep; well, let the world public know that the cloning of human species in Serbia has finally succeeded, not to bother anymore. Mr. Minister, if you have not accepted, on behalf of the Government so far, any amendments concerning the annual holidays, and you have not, this amendment that we ask you to delete Article 62, you should indeed accept, because it is contrary to Article 54. Please return to Article 54, the last position that says employees cannot give up their vacation rights, nor can their right be denied. Article 62, whose SRS is seeking, stipulates that if the employer's fault does not use the annual leave, he has the right to compensation, in the amount of the salary he would have earned that he used his vacation. So the employer can still force the worker to work and not take advantage of the vacation. I also remind you that it's article 38. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I will read to you, prescribed that employees have the right to a limited working time, on a daily and Sunday vacation and on paid vacation and leave in accordance with the law, or collective agreement. Employees shall be entitled to protection in accordance with the law. The Constitution also prohibits forced labour. I don't know what else this would be, but forced labor. No matter what the employee is compensated for, or paid as if he was working, and he worked, or even double or triple, that you prescribed that too - he has the right to vacation on an annual basis. The employer is obliged to provide him with an annual vacation, and these two members are obviously contrary. I think you should notice that yourself, and if not you, the Legislative Committee, or we should take a break and agree on that. This can't survive like this. You also admit, in the light of the law, that the employer has opportunities; that's exactly what it is said - if the employer deprives the employee of the right to take an annual vacation, he is obliged to compensate for the damage to the unused vacation. So he denied him something that the Constitution gives him and something that the Law in Article 54 gives him. And not to mention how he's going to use his annual vacation employee, whether he's going somewhere or not. They're probably not going anywhere, where they can get money to go somewhere. They can't even pay for this electricity. Our bills are just coming in. I got an electricity bill yesterday of 26,000 dinars, so I'm not thinking about a vacation for the next three years. No saving, you put some old man on TV to make us save, I guess the price makes us save. Unfortunately, we can't keep kids and little babies in cold rooms and have kids studying in the glaciers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15159	Thank you. Here you go. Mr Nikolic, as representative of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15160	I'd like to speak very briefly about this amendment. Namely, the legislator, put my card here, the bill promoter disabling himself. Article 54 of Article 3 states that employees cannot give up their vacation rights, nor can that right be denied. It's a perfectly clear provision. Then suddenly, in article 62, he says, "If the employer's employee doesn't use his vacation, he's entitled to compensation." He can't be denied the use of an annual vacation. The law does not deprive an employee of the right to a vacation. Then there's no further work, if he cancels out. He can't be denied. How you're working out something that can't happen, even by a previous member of the law. And now, for history, as you run the session, Ms. Micic: during the vote on the amendment to Mr. Zivko Selakovic's 60th member, you severely violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Well, that constitution doesn't seem to be sacred to you, it does. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia Article 80(1) "The National Assembly decides by majority of votes at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs." And you have now determined that the quorum for holding a session of 125 MPs. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the quorum is 126, most of the total number of MPs. The total number of Members, under this same constitution, is 250. Article 9... Do you want to listen to the lecture? Article 9 The Rules of Procedure were made possible when 126 MPs in the hall were verified that the Assembly could work. [[Sagar.]] That's most of the total number of MPs. Mrs. Micic, the previous vote ended in a total number of those present in the 125 hall. It's not a quorum on which the Assembly can work and decide at all. 126 MPs must be present, under Article 80(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Whether you laugh or not, that's what the Constitution says. I can't believe you're stepping on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and laughing at it sweetly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15161	Mr. Nikolic, it is true that the Constitution provides for the National Assembly to have 250 MPs. Article 82. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly say that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly if more than half of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the total number of MPs in the National Assembly is 248, since two mandates have been taken away, so the quorum for the work of 125 Members of the Parliament, and therefore I have been waiting for a report from the Administrative Committee, which I have not received, but you will receive this notice. If necessary, you will also receive authentic interpretation later. [[Sagar.]] You will receive a report from the Administrative Board, if necessary, we will repeat the vote on the amendment. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 107, the abstentions are missing, did not vote 8, a total of 124 MPs. Therefore, this is an invalid vote. Please determine if we have a quorum at all. I ask the service to count the MPs. The count found that 121 MPs were present in the O.R., so I'm setting a 30-minute break. [[After break - 15.25.]] Please, in order to determine the quorum, put your cards in the MPs' units. I ask the service to determine whether or not we have a quorum, starting at the top of the hall. I'm guessing we have a quorum. You have received a request from the President of the Movement for Democratic Serbia, Momčel Perisic, to establish the end of the mandate to the MPs Predrag Bajcic and Vojkan Tomic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, and a report from the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this request, with a proposal that the National Assembly, based on Article 88(1) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments states that the term of office of these Members of Parliament should be suspended. In accordance with Article 88(1) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended, before the elections ended, for MPs Predrag Bajcic and Vojkan Tomic, elected from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a National MP, to fill a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dr Dragoslav Boskovic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Dr Dragoslav Boskovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. The president of the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group, Marko Petrovic, on the basis of Article 159 of Position 3 and Article 43(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10.12.2001. [[Applause]] I therefore put to the vote the motion of the president of the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Mark Petrovic, to put on the agenda of this session an amendment to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare themselves by voting on this proposal. For 112, no one with abstentions voted 14, a total of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal tabled by the president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Marko Petrovic. According to article 62, the vote needs to be repeated because we didn't have a quorum. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to article 62. For 21, against 114 abstentions, 12 did not vote, a total of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6rd amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15163	I would like to remind you, and also because of the citizens who are following this session, that he is a member of 63. The proposal for this law provides that an employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence from working with a salary, means a paid absence, up to five working days in the event of marriage, the birth of a wife, serious illness or death of a member of a family, voluntary blood giving, and in other cases by a general act or contract of employment. In my amendment, I proposed that in those cases employees be given the right not to leave paid for five days, as proposed, but seven working days, as it has been so far, and that they be given the right to leave paid in case of moving and passing an expert exam. I also proposed with my amendment that, independently of the above cases, the employee should be given the right to a paid leave for seven days in the event of death of a member of the narrow family and two working days in the event of voluntary blood donation. Please, it is proposed here that if a worker has taken advantage of a leave of absence for up to five days (marriage, child birth, family disease), and if in the course of the year someone dies, he has no right to use paid leave. Well, is that humane, is that what we have to say as MPs -- well, I'm sorry, you used on the second basis of those five days, in the event of the death of a family member, you no longer have the right to use it. Or take a case of voluntary blood donation. Isn't it really one human action -- to give blood, save someone's life and get for that two-day paid leave? Now it's going to happen, if the worker used it on a second basis these five days, that he has no right to use those two days of paid leave to give blood. Well, are we going to let someone who wants to give voluntary blood be paid in that case, to say, "I'm sorry, but I'm not getting paid, nobody's gonna pay me -- then pay him whoever got the blood, whose life was saved?" Are we going to get into a situation, since we're taking the example of America to trade in blood? Let's save something that is positive in our people, which remains positive for our workers, that pure for human purposes is given blood, and not to charge for it and to come to that position to trade with it. I think what I've suggested is not only because so far it's been regulated as the right of employees, but, indeed, it's about events that are very rare in life, and it wouldn't be humane to carry out restrictions here; not to mention this specifically in voluntary blood donation - how we're going to carry out this action if it's traded with blood. I think these days are rarely used. Therefore, it will not do much harm to employers, and in the end, it raises the motivation of employees and humanization of work. Therefore, there is reason to accept this, in the interests and employees, and employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15164	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? There's a word from the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the restrictive nature of this law is also examined in Article 63, which speaks of paid leave. Under the current law, the right to paid leave moved in the length of seven working days, leaving the possibility for another seven days, in the event of the death of a member of a narrow family. We also have some practical problems here. One person, or an employee, during one calendar year can have more of these events, and the total number of working days as paid leave can be only five days. For example, during one year marriage and the birth of a wife may also be possible, but floods and various other disasters are possible, resulting in paid leave for the workers. So, this member is also clearly saying that this law is not reform law, because it is constantly a restriction, a reduction, a denial, a suspension of workers' rights, so I think that this amendment that our MP has submitted might be able to fix something a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15166	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15167	Dear People's MPs, Article 63. The bill indicates in which all cases an employee is entitled to a paid leave of up to five days during one calendar year. These are, therefore, marriages, the birth of a wife, a serious illness, or the death of a family member. We believe that the death case should be segregated from the first position of Article 63 and the new position 2 which reads: "Extremely from the position of the 1st member, employees have the right to additionally paid leave of five working days in the event of the death of a member of the rope family". The Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group considers that a maximum of five working days paid for all of these cases is insufficient, especially when a member of the family dies in that year. The proposed amendment provides for a longer paid leave in that case, and that was the purpose of this amendment. Since not all amendments to the Serbian Unity Party that are in line with union representatives have been accepted, the Serbian Unity Party will not vote for the Law on Working in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15168	Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 110, there were no abstentions, there were no 12 votes, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan G. Guduric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we discuss amendments to this Thessaloniki labour law, people will begin to dislike Thessaloniki after the adoption of this law, and at least among the Serbs is considered to be something good. (Milka Marinkovic, from the post: Theme. The theme is the "Solenic" Labour Act, Milka, no problem at all. Talk about some amendments, with your voting machine, it's probably an illusion, but I promise I won't come out next twice if it's something. It's probably gonna have to be a shame after the law is passed, but you're passing it; you're right, because most of you, nobody slows it down, but also from that right, you'll have consequences that no one will ever be able to slow down again. You want it, and you're trying to adopt it from the petals. The adoption of this law reduces all the rights that workers have so far had, including those which spoke of a collective agreement, because you have made it equal to some other things that the employer will bring, and the employer does not count on people and will bring only their own, and collective respect will not, because there is no need. You want it and you will vote it, but the shadow of Thessaloniki will certainly remain above all of this. In all this, it was a shame that those who tried to discover Thessalonica did not bother to discover others, because that day was not only Thessaloniki, but there were others, but since it was not already there, we will not talk about it. The Thessaloniki is enough to embarrass and disgrace this congregation, so why spread further. We'll take advantage of the rest on a better occasion. The Thessaloniki versus Mercedes is such a big mess and a shame that even the Mercedes factory can't heal you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15170	Mr. Guduricu, the subject. Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 109 abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 65th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to article 65 refers to the situation of working relations. Since this law is full of inaccurate formulations, I must inform you that such an inaccurate, or rather none, answer to this amendment that I have submitted before the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has arrived by the promoter, or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's no minister in front of him, because I don't know what he's reading; this report we received is a report to the National Assembly by the government. Now, when we ask that something that is in the most rigorous way be reduced in relation to the previous law, which is a situation where someone is in support of a prison sentence, namely the stated security measures, educational and protective measures for up to three months, which is said by the promoter, and the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party asks it to be up to six months, there is no answer by the legislator, which is why it is not possible. Namely, I am being referred to by a member of 18 who has been submitted by some group of MPs, your former coalition partners who have left the session, but this article is not at all discussed with the amendment in question. So, we've asked that it be up to six months, for those who go possibly to comply with the legal penalty. That you're unprincipled, not just you, Mr. Minister, but the entire DOS government, says that a month ago in this same assembly, in a judicial package, you voted that a judge who goes to prison for up to six months could be a judge, and one who's been sentenced to a lengthy three-month prison sentence can't go back to a factory, anywhere, to a state administration, where he had a basic working relationship. On the other hand, your rigorousity is seen in a reduction in the number of days, within which it is mandatory that one who has used the rest of the working relationship for work abroad, the service of the military, the termination of the function, return from the maintenance of the prison sentence, to return to his post. Thirty days was under the previous law, we found a reasonable number of days - 15 days, and we think it's an optimal number of days that someone who's in such a situation can go back to their jobs. Mr. Minister, you should imagine yourself, too, because, as things stand, your ministerial mandate is coming to an end. You're going to have to go back to one of your jobs there, so you better give yourself, you know, a 15-day deadline, not just five days as per the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15172	The word has Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15173	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15174	Since we don't have a report from the Committee, the government has accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 65th vote tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. For 143 against six, three abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I would ask the service to provide a card to the MP Dr Dragoslav Boskovic, whose mandate we confirmed at the beginning of this session, so that he could vote. Members of the 65th Amendment were submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Amendment applicants aren't in the O.R. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 108, the abstention of four, did not vote 17, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15175	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, my amendment is almost identical with the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic, who was accepted here. In fact, it's about those 15 days, which is logical and good that it's accepted, because why was the government's proposal to rush back to work after five days, and he's been away for a year or a few years. So I'm withdrawing the amendment because it's actually accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15176	I find that MP Radojko Petrovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 65. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assume you're in a hurry so we don't welcome the workers with a law like this on Wednesday. I hope that's why I won't get a warning like last time I was right, because I said you were avoiding a union strike. This amendment, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I have submitted to Article 2 66. Paragraph 1 states that employees have the right to safety and health protection at work, in accordance with the law. The 2nd position states that the employer is obliged to organise work to ensure the protection of the lives and health of employees, in accordance with special law and other regulations. Here in the amendment behind the word "organizing" I predicted that the words "training" should be added. So, in addition to work, training is organized, that these people are trained to do this kind of work, that these people know what to do in special, special or different circumstances. In response, the Government of the Republic of Serbia said that this amendment cannot be accepted because this topic is regulated by some other laws, and it seems to me that, when we are already talking about the protection of employees in labour law, it would not be more normal and natural to have such a provision, which would not burden the law or the proposer with anything, and it would be perfectly normal to find itself in the bill of law and for the MPs to adopt it in such a way, for the simple reason that we have already spoken here, it seems to me, so on several occasions. to the secondary legislation, where the DOS regime has been insisting on for months. We constantly get the referring norms of some new special laws or some old special laws, and if a worker who is not a lawyer asks the question of the protection of employees, God’s father does not know how he will cope and how he will solve this problem, where he will manage to find this place and how training and work will be solved for ensuring the protection of lives and the health of employees. I don't think this is burdening the legislator at all, and that the legislator could have this calm soul and no problem accepting it. This would only make one more commitment to everyone, if you will, or even employees who, above all, would have to go through that kind of training to protect themselves and the people they work with.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15178	Anyone else want a word? The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15179	I think the promoter should accept this amendment. It happened, and I witnessed it twice, even responsible, at construction sites, when there were serious injuries, and one with even a tragic outcome. The first question asked by the investigative authorities, the inspection for the sake of it, the members of the families who were unhappy, was it -- did you train him to work on the job? Achieving a certain qualification, a certain school knowledge, and even working at a workplace is not a sufficient condition for you, by changing your job, by changing your job, to claim that you have provided all the conditions as an employer, if you are not yet additionally employed to meet the specifics of a job where you may first start working. Not all machines are the same, they don't do all the machines on the same principle. The conditions of work are not unique that you can predict everything with one training. We didn't even insist that this training be paid, that it be during working hours. The objective of the amendment was just to completely take off our responsibility for something that happened, to know that it was the employee's fault, that it wasn't the employer's fault, that he did everything in his power to have the worker dressed well enough to work at a certain workplace. Don't forget, this crisis is about to deepen. Many people don't do jobs that are trained at any level of schooling. Many of the opportunities work in completely different jobs. They need training. They accept that they also work in lower qualifications than their own, where the lower ones are sought, eventually degrade their school, but also where they go, although they may need less knowledge, and there they need training to be able to do their jobs successfully. By that success I think exclusively that they are not getting hurt. Whether to work successfully, the employer will decide, but will he be hurt or not? Let us do everything, as a society, to bring this injury down to the lowest possible extent. The employer will not cost anything if he organizes out-of-work training, unpaid training, everyone will go to that training because his desire is to be trained to work so that he can work long and make use of it for his family.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15180	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 105, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 70th Amendment were submitted by MPs Vera Markovic, Branko Pavlovic, Vlatko Sekulović and Miroslav Christodulo. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: What about Article 69? Now we'll see, we don't have here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15181	In Article 70, we have proposed an amendment in which it should say that an employed woman in the last eight weeks of pregnancy cannot work overtime, or at night. The government, or the resolution ministry, has rejected this amendment, explaining that the IOR No. 111 Convention seeks to protect women from discrimination. A pregnant woman is not sick, so she has equal rights as a man, and there is no way that she is forced to protect herself beyond what is a regular protection of motherhood. The Social Democratic Union has submitted this amendment in the light of, above all, the state in which our labour force, the special female labour force, is located. We have seen the report on the state of national health in the last 10 years, especially for UNESCO's needs, and this report shows that women in reproductive periods in 30% of cases suffer from anaemia; the same percentage is also anaemic among pregnant women. In view of the differences between the female labour force in our country and in the countries covered by the IOR Convention, which are based on the IOR No 111 Convention, we see the differences recorded. Our labour force is necessary to protect, especially women's labour. Considering that a pregnant woman will not decide freely on her health, endangering her health and endangering her unborn child, she will work overtime and work nights under economic pressure, not with her own free will. Therefore, we feel that one of these clauses is necessary at least temporarily introduce, so later, when the conditions in which women work are fixed, it is simple to withdraw from the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15182	The word has a minister, Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15183	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15184	Since we don't have reports from the board, I'm going to put this amendment to the vote. For 141 against one, with five abstentions, did not vote 19, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Jovan Todorovic submitted to the 70th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendment guy wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that the minister has made one step towards the solution I have proposed in the amendment to Article 70 because he has accepted the amendment of our colleague who was formerly here at the pay phone. I would just like a few more notes to make and try to convince the minister that maybe this solution would be good, just for these reasons already discussed -- that pregnant women are in such a material position by the rule, that they will always give written consent to work at night (naturally, for economic reasons) and that it can certainly endanger pregnant women's health and the health of a still unborn child. By accepting amendments that pregnant women have not worked in the last eight weeks, it is important to correct the situation, but it seems to me that, as people, we should consider accepting my amendment that does not allow a woman to work during pregnancy, even with written consent. You know, gentlemen, sometimes, they say, the Serbs were almost as many French, or more, almost as many Englishmen, and today there are very few of us, when we add even those in diaspora, it's hard to cross 10 million, and they say the French have over 70 million. It would be reasonable for a normal demographic policy to go that way and encourage the birth of new children, new families, not only Serbian, but all other citizens living in this country, just so that one day we can be measured with these great countries. The story of how the International Labour Organization allowed women to work during pregnancy is not disputed, but what kind of environment our women are working in, so in what economic environment, in which economic situation, what is the material position of the family, with which the corporate incomes are. We obviously have an economic urge here to define the largest number of women, however, to give written consent to work at night, to somehow help survive in this difficult time. On the contrary, in the Western European countries, where the economy is developed, women are basically working because it is such a health condition that they can work, not for economic reasons, or because they do important jobs that they simply don't want to do elsewhere. So I would ask the minister to consider this and take another step forward and accept the amendment so that pregnant women cannot be allowed to work at night at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15186	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 110, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 71st Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Here, put the microphone down a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15187	I've already thought that you're reducing my tone here somehow, saying they can't hear me in the O.R., but that's because of the microphone. Mr. Minister, I'm really asking you to pay attention to me, because I think this article is 71st one of the crucial members of this law. He foresees conditions for the use of maternity leave, which has been talked about a lot during the debate in principle. True, by law, a woman employed has the right to maternity leave and leave to work for the care of a child for 365 days. Three months, mother's on maternity leave. By the end of the year of the child's life, the mother has the right to leave and it is called child care, treated and regulated by the Child Protection Act. This law leaves room for that law to be amended afterwards and that the mother no longer has 100% compensation, as she now has, but that she is reduced. I don't see any other reason why you don't call this absence for a year a maternity leave. You left one space for something to open up afterwards. The SRS suggested the amendment of this article 71, which would read as follows: A working woman has the right during pregnancy and childbirth on maternity leave: 1) until the year of the child's life - for the first, second, fourth, and each of the following children: 2) until two years of child's life - for the third child. There is no, Minister, any explanation that you can give to a mother in Serbia not allow her to be with her child for two years if she chooses to be a third child. We know what kind of population policy is being run - in this case negative, and it should be pro-pulsive and positive. Turn around, please, don't turn your back on me, I'm telling you, I'm only talking to you right now. (Minister Milovanovic from the post: I listen to you very carefully. ) Therefore, the government cannot give an adequate answer to why, if we have been trying for 10 and more years to stimulate our parents to this third child, to deal with the white plague in Serbia that is indisputable, you are now ending it. Who gave you the order to do that? You, when you presented the Law in principle, did not say it was particularly stimulating, in 1999 there may have been, perhaps 3,300 newborns as a third child. Isn't that little, Minister, in ten years it's a whole town of 30,000 people, it's not little for Serbia. You shouldn't go over those numbers so easily. It affects someone to be able to stay for two years with a third child, so they can be with both the first and the second child for a little while. It affects someone, say, some other system of values that he built or won in his home affects someone he learned from school. I will honestly tell you what made me have a third child, besides what my grandmother gave birth to five and my great-grandmother nine. At the first year of the study, Professor Bakic, who taught family law, told us colleagues like this - respected colleagues, today, and that was 1972, three children come to a peasant girl, to one worker two, and to two intellectuals one child. It's your exaggeration to give birth. That's what our education has to do to build a new system of values. What's wealth? The wealth is, then, an increased family, what remains behind us. It's those kids. If we're healthy, we should have children. I'm the standard you promise, it doesn't promise that. We need to change something else. After all, there are other models, in Austria for the first child's mother gets, that is, parents get 35,000 shillings, 40,000 shillings for the second child. We are, you say, a state of prosperity. In about a year, two days, we'll be, so why don't we even predict something like that, and not even end some rights. In addition, the period of maternity leave of item 1 of point 2 of this article shall be determined according to the number of children a working woman has on the day of birth of a child, counting the newborn child. It only further explains our commitment to maternity leave for a year. The right to parenting... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... In the maternity leave until the age of two years, there is also a working woman who has three or more children in the first birth, as well as a working woman who has one or two children and has two or more children. Based on the findings of the competent health authorities, an employed woman may begin maternity leave 45 days before delivery, and necessarily 28 days before delivery. In the course of maternity leave, this member of the employed woman shall be entitled to compensation, in accordance with the law. By this law, and not by someone else who, eventually, would reduce that right even further. I ask you, I appeal to all of you, for the fate of Serbia, for what awaits us and for what those who do not think well to us and who wants not only to have one such slave law, to be slaves in their country, but wants an empty and deleted space without Serbs... (President: Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I warn you of overtime. )......................................................................................................... in your country, to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15188	Anybody else answer for a word? Well, when she spoke so well, would you like a word? Yeah. Now to spoil, when she spoke so beautifully. I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15189	Of course I can't speak this well of this problem, although I still find myself in that chain. It is obvious that the legislator is preparing a climate for jobs where I think women will do more in Serbia than men. If these are jobs in the textile industry, if there are jobs in agriculture at the collection, sorting, if they are such jobs around, our women will be able to get jobs. Now that you, dear women, have the opportunity to get a job, we won't give you the opportunity to have the rights you've had so far. It's obvious that we give you the right to be absent for a third child for two years, and you don't have a third child, now we're going to punish you for not using those rights, so we're removing your right to have maternity leave for a third child for two years. If it was used to a large extent, if it were 10,000 this year, the minister would say, well, this is the right to admit, it's obvious that women are using it, but now we're not going to admit it, because women are using it a little bit. The fact that Serbia needs a third child in every family, what Serbia is calling out for it, and what it needs to be done by every act of the National Assembly, including by any law that any one of us makes here, is a notorous fact. I can't understand, there's no real explanation, why reduce maternity rights, why? If we're Malaysia, so we can't have more than one child in our family, we'll be overpopulated. What's the matter? Why is the maternity leave for three months, and the child's care is nine months, if it's the same financially, and the family is much nicer to be called a maternity leave and is a maternity child for up to one year of child's life. You know that very well. Why it shrinks from two years to a year maternity leave, only for a third child. We're not asking for a fourth or fifth, come on, God, there are so few children, and especially in municipalities or in parts of municipalities where the birth rate is negative for us to insist on. We're just looking for a child who's lost, for a mother who gave birth to three children. It used to be nothing, say, my uncles, aunts, uncles, it was born in a house where five, six, seven were born. Now, since 1945, from communism, from industrialization, for many reasons two children have become some synonym for the family. Here, now we've got what's coming to us. Some didn't think about it, they took our territories from us the oldest possible option of kidnapping -- Natalie. We do not have the right to pretend that this is not happening here in Serbia, especially not now that Serbia is at risk from all sides, especially not now that this law does not apply to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. I'm convinced it's not valid and it won't be applicable. Or maybe your MPs from the Return Coalition will force it to the Kosovo and Metohija parliament? I'm sure it won't be applied. Where are the ambassadors from Vojvodina? That's where the white plague rules. Do they have a voice to raise him against what's happening to them, regardless... There is no discrimination, you cannot tell me that the white plague among the Hungarians is not as among the Serbs. In all of Vojvodina, the birth rate is negative. Why are you cutting through the little branches we're sitting on? And what's it gonna cost? Here, let's ask the minister. How much greater isolating are these if you accept this amendment? Let's put on one side of the child's terrorism and birth, and on the other hand, how much of this is going to cost out of the budget, and decide. But I'm already telling you, whenever you give the bill here to make children better and easier to support the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15190	The word is from Mr Zeljo Huric, a representative of the parliamentary group of the reformist Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15191	Dear fellow Members of the People, indeed if we come from the main role of the woman, which is God's day, which is to be a mother, then I am in favour of that maternity leave, during whom and most to express her role comes, being as comfortable and as long as possible. From that point of view, I am sure that the personal income is 100% and that the absence is as long as possible, as suggested, and if it is possible that during the third child, the absence lasts two years. But to be truly so, to be equal and equal to all the families, not to be, as we had in the previous period, to give some that absence far longer. I can tell you from personal experience that my wife was only five days before she had another child to give birth to a maternity leave that lasts until today. In the meantime, we did get a third child. For me, that absence, in that length, wasn't much of a stimulant, and I don't think it would be for others. By handling this experience, although I have previously expressed myself in favour of this amendment, I will still vote against the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15192	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 84, abstentioned 11, 14 voted, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 71st amendment was filed by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I explain our amendment, I hope the new president of the assembly won't put his hand in my pocket the first day, even though we didn't vote for his appointment. Article 71 of Section 1 changes and says: "A woman who is employed has the right to maternity leave: 1) until the year of the child's life for the first, second, fourth, and each child's next, and 2) until the age of two years of child's life - for the third child. "The same article after Article 2 adds two new attitudes, which reads: "The period of maternity leave from item 1 of point 2) of the article is determined according to the number of children employed by the child on the day of birth, counting the newborn child. The right to maternity leave until the child’s age of two years has also a working woman who first gives birth to three or more children as well as a working woman who has one or two children and has two or more children. "In the same article, paragraphs 3 and 4 are deleted. In Article 5, which becomes heading 3, the word "right" is replaced by the word "right", and the words "these rights" are replaced by the words "right". In the same Article, Article 6 is deleted. In the present position 7, which becomes item 4, number 5 is replaced by number 3. The Serbian Unity Party wanted to propose a slightly stronger amendment relating to the white plague, in order to improve the birth rate in Serbia but we know that the minister and DOS majority will not accept it, so we suggested a milder variant that does not bring any better tomorrow. I must say that Minister Milovanovic, at a session on 27.11.2001, explained this by the fact that stimulation does not produce results and stated in December 1997 that this right was used by 5,370 women, and in July 2001, 3.146 women. This is exactly what needs to be a reason to keep this solution, not to end it. The Serbian Unity Party wanted to propose, but I say - you will not accept it, when we come to power we will propose and our majority will adopt it), that all women born to a third child are no longer working, because, according to statistics, in Serbia, Serbs will be a national minority over 50 years. When this law is passed, as the minister suggested, the Serb national minority will be 30 years from now, a large number of us sitting in this hall in 30 years will be a national minority. Given that this law will leave a large number of fathers without a job, also mothers who are to bear children, the Serbian Unity Party will not vote for the bill in particular, because we have had several meetings with the largest three unions in Serbia where we have agreed our nine amendments to a total of 50 amendments. You later refused all these amendments. The Serbian Unity Party wants to support workers and those who take care of the worker. Only one union supports this law, and this is the union of Mr. Milovanovic. So we'll vote against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15194	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 105, there are no abstentions, there was no 13 vote, a total of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic to article 71. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15195	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, the Socialist Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to this member that regulates the length of maternity leave and absence from the work of an employed woman for the care of a child. Under the current Law on Working Relations, a woman employed had the right to use maternity leave for a year after the birth of a child during pregnancy and childbirth. In addition to this year's absence, an employed woman had the right to, by order of the medical authority, start maternity leave 45 days before delivery, and necessarily 28 days before delivery. The current proposal for a new law in this article of the 71st maternity leave is divided into two parts, maternity leave and leave for child care. According to this article, the 71st maternity leave is divided into two parts - maternity leave and leave for child care. It was about this speech, and it's obvious that this split into two parts creates a prerequisite for paying less personal income, less profit later on for child care. The length of maternity leave and leave for child care purposes, the government's proposal is set at 365 days, from the date of maternity leave, which can also begin 45 days ago under this bill, and necessarily 28 days before delivery. In other words, if the government's proposal is adopted, the total maternity leave will be reduced by these 45 days, or 28 days. With my amendment, I suggested that an employed woman have the right to maternity leave for 365 days, from the day of birth of the child, and additionally those 45 days, or necessarily 28 days before birth, actually as the maternity child had until now. Also, in the second part of the amendment to, the same, article 71, I suggested that maternity leave and leave for child care take two years, from the day of birth of a child: when a woman in employment has a third child and has two or more children, and already has one or more children. I think it is necessary to accept this part of the amendment, not to leave the government's proposal, where in these cases a reduction in maternity leave is foreseen from two years to a year. It is, in fact, less than half of the right so far, if it is in the view of 45 or 28 days before birth. Every citizen of this country is sure to understand the consequences for the country's future for the fall of birth and the reduction of population. If Serbia really wants to run a development demographic policy and fight the white plague, it will not move to reduce maternity leave. It's normal for the country to provide incentive measures, to help an employed woman and family have more children. I hope there are really convincing reasons for this amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15196	Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the proposed amendments to article 71 are good and better solutions than all this that the Proposer in Article 71 of the proposed law offers. Simply, our position is clear: maternity leave should last a year, we should wipe out all this childcare stuff, we should keep a provision for a leave of two years for a third child, and when we talk about this right, regarding the care of a child, which is supposed to apply to the Law on Social Care for children, it is not the same, because simply, the child's care in this law applies only to the adoptor, or to the guardian. You have to make that difference. When it comes to the special care of the child, it is regulated by the Health Insurance Act, which refers to the period of time of one year and the illness is 85%. Generally speaking, we don't think this right should be abolished. Everything workers have acquired through the past law should be kept to the very least by this law. I wouldn't argue further, but there have been a lot of explanations in the presentation of all MPs, relating to Article 71. The labour law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15198	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 99, there were no abstentions, there was no vote 18, a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st Amendment were submitted by MPs Vera Markovic, Branko Pavlovic, Vlatko Sekulović and Miroslav Christodulo. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vera Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15199	With all due respect to the legislator and the restoring ministry, this member of the law contains some ambiguity and one inconsistency. The ambiguity concerns the early initiation of maternity leave, so it must be explained by health reasons, if 45 days ago from the delivery date. However, if pregnancy is threatened, of course maternity leave will begin much earlier than 45 days before delivery. So we suggest that this member be simplified, or that this member's position be simplified, and that it be emphasized that a woman who is employed, pregnant, can use maternity leave before the 28th day, and necessarily from the 28th day. In any case, if it is started earlier, it will be explained by health reasons, and if it is necessary to have health assurance about the need for early initiation of maternity leave, it will endure it. As for the non-consistency of this member, I am referring above all to that member of the Constitution of Serbia (Article 29(3)).) which refers to the parent’s partner relations with regard to child rearing. Therefore, parents’ rights are equal in terms of children’s obligations and are not necessary, and it is completely unnecessary for this member to apply to the conditions under which a father can use leave for the child’s care. A leave of care for a child, as well as standing here in one attitude, which says, "he can use... if spouses agree on this," and that is all that concerns partnering decision on the use of leave for child care. It's too much to put: that it can be used, or that it has to be used, if the mother dies, if she's on a prison sentence, if she's suffering from a severe illness. It's absolutely unnecessary for all of this to stand. It is enough to stand for what is the legal obligation of the promoter, which is to recognize that parents are equal in raising children and that the absence of child care can be used both by father and mother, or one of them, in accordance with their mutual agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15200	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 79, abstentions 14, 10, 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted the amendment to article 71. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 72nd Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not in the O.R. The word is wanted by Mr Nikolic, a representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15201	The government should accept this amendment. I'll also read the article on which the amendment was given, and the amendment, so that you can understand what it's all about. In Article 72. The bill, if a working woman gives birth to a dead child or if her child dies before maternity leave expires, she has the right to use maternity leave for three months. Our amendment is more complete, more complete, and it says: "If a working woman gives birth to a dead child, or if her child dies before maternity leave expires, she has the right to use maternity leave for as long as it is necessary to recover from the birth of an ipsychophysical condition caused by the loss of a child, and at least 45 days, for which time belongs all rights based on maternity leave." Let me read a part of the proposal's reasoning, at least cynically. He says that the bill provides more favourable conditions for a woman because they give her the right to a maternity leave of three months. He says that this is how you provide a certain period for the recovery of a woman due to the death of a child. My dear promoters, what if, God forbid, there is a tragedy for a child to die on the 70th day of maternity leave. Whether a woman will recover in another 20 days or 80 days, and it will only be 10 days, because you've already predicted a maximum of three months, no matter what and when in those three months it happens. Isn't it more humane to leave it to those who know it better than we do, to assess whether the woman has recovered and can start working. Every woman endures it differently and receives it, so we can't go forward knowing that within three months of giving birth, that is, from the beginning of maternity leave, not from the tragedy that is happening to her, that she will recover. Leave the variant to the doctors to determine whether the woman has recovered during the maternity leave of three months; or should allow her to recover longer. Still, the pain condition is too great, especially for women who have been carrying a child for nine months.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15202	Here you are, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill found that if an employee woman has a dead child, or if her child dies before maternity leave expires, she has the right to benefit from the maternity leave provided for in Article 71(3) of this Act, i.e. maternity leave lasts up to three months from the day of delivery. This is what the government of the Republic of Serbia proposed, their conclusion that it would be the best solution. We of the Serbian Radical Party consider that there are better solutions, and therefore we have submitted this amendment, which reads: "If a working woman gives birth to a dead child, or if her child dies before maternity leave expires, she has the right to use the maternity leave as long as, according to the competent health authority's findings, she needs to recover from birth and the psychophysical condition caused by the loss of the child." So, I think it's something that's more incomparable to a woman. Why would you restrict it by administrative means to 90 days, why would you hold back something that you can't be distracted because no one can know what a psychophysical state of woman would be like after such a tragedy, and that's why we think it's necessary to accept such an amendment. These are not frequent cases and the promoter will not have any great harm to it, nor will he have to do to those in the World Bank or I already don't know which institution in which they insisted on passing such a law, to account for the acceptance of such an amendment, and to those women and families who experience such a tragedy will still be a bit easier, and yet they will be able to count on a different and better protection of the state than in this case. I don't think there's any reason, but the promoter left the O.R. Maybe it's because he's embarrassed not to accept such an amendment, because it would be hard to explain it to the public. That is why I call on the MPs, regardless of their belonging to any member of the parliamentary group, to accept this amendment. The law will lose nothing on its edge or rigidity toward workers, according to their rights. In any case, we'll just have one little question, but also how significant for those who experience such a tragedy, we'll solve it in an incomparably more favourable way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15204	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 98, abstentions 7, did not vote 6, a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 73. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not in the O.R. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 110, the abstentioned were not voted 22, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7rd amendment was submitted by MP Bratislav Djuric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 74th Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15205	Where did this minister go? He's very interested in the bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're in different positions here, and it's only a month. The government could step forward to meet the amendment, a team before it represents an improvement of conditions for extremely noble people. This is about the absence from work for the care of the child for fosterers, fosterers, or guardians of the child. Item 2 of Article 74. The bill reads: "If accommodation is in the foster, foster, foster, or foster family of the 1st position of this member came before the completed three months of the child's life, one of the adoptive, fostering, or guardian of the child has the right to, for the sake of child care, be absent from work until the 11 months of child's life have been completed." Indeed, we suggested that it be up to 12 months of a child's life. If you read the argument of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - or if you at least want to listen a little bit, but it doesn't matter to you - if you adopt our amendment that it lasts 12 months, it turns out that the accident that the fosterer has would last 13 months, and the accident in the family that gave birth would last 12 months. Why not? First, if the foster family adopts one child of two months, why not allow her to stay with the child for up to one year of her life, one of the guardians, the foster parents not to go to work. They met him much later than his parents, met him two months after he was born. The kid's not used to them. After all, the child is not their blood. It's hard to adapt, it takes time, and they're very noble people. Perhaps yesterday or these days you watched when Grandma of 96 found a child in front of an elevator, a baby who had a few days. Look how noble it was. She loved it like it was her great-grandson. These people, if they're human enough, they should, and the legislator to meet them. Why don't they stay with that kid until he's a year old. But whatever you say. If the parents are with the child for a year, so be the guardian for nine or ten months, if he took custody in the second month. He'll never be a year old, like, a foster mother has three months of maternity care and nine months of child care.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15206	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 105, three abstentions, nine out of 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan G. Guduric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Stevan G. Guduric: I withdraw the amendment. ) The applicant for the amendment is withdrawing the amendment, so that the debate on the amendment ceases. Member of the 77th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan G. Guduric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Stevan G. Guduric: I withdraw the amendment. ) The applicant for the amendment also withdraws this amendment, which is why the debate on it ends. Members of the 78th Amendment were submitted by MPs Vera Markovic, Branko Pavlovic, Vlatko Sekulović and Miroslav Christodulo. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 32, against 96, two abstentions, the 23rd out of 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 78th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Does anyone else report on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 21, against 110, there were no abstentions, no 22, a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 78th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15207	In the context of the section of the protection of employees, and in particular works relating to pregnant women and maternity women, Article 78 discusses the prohibition of termination. I will quote a member: "During pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, as well as leave of work for child care, the employer cannot resign the employee unless the working relationship is based on a specific time or if the conditions laid down in Articles 103 to 5 of this Act have been met." With our amendment, we ask that these special cases, as provided for in Article 103(3) to (5) and point 7, be deleted, so that practically pregnant women, families and women who use what the law allows, if they need special care to dedicate to their child for health reasons, up to five years of life, cannot quit. Article 103(3) says that "if an employee commits an offence to a work obligation established by a labour contract", he can be fired. Look, under this law, no more disciplinary proceedings, no more measures, no fines, no warning, no immediate termination. I remind you that this is contrary to the federal law on the basis of working relations, Article 53 to 60. In addition, point 4 is replaced by the following: 103 point 4 also says when a pregnant woman and a maternity child can be fired: "If he does not respect work discipline, that is, if his behaviour is such that he cannot continue working with the employer." It's really inappropriate. First, if she is absent, she cannot disrespect work discipline, and if during pregnancy, it happened that she did not respect any work discipline, we have in mind that women are pregnant and are in special psychological condition. Therefore, it can only be tolerated a few times and certainly is not a reason to quit. Point 5 says that "if an employee commits a crime at work or in relation to work" he is fired." How can someone who is absent commit a crime? That's impossible. Remember the law on judges and public prosecutors; even if they did commit a crime and (condemned to six months in prison) you allowed them to be re-elected to the same post. It's about people who are high-ranking civil servants, and here one, for example, working in the textile industry, I don't know what kind of crime she can do, she stops working at a time when she's on maternity leave. I wish you had predicted - after that maternity leave is over. No, you're only interested in the employer's interest, that he gets rid of labor and women as soon as possible, because he doesn't need a worker like that at all, and he doesn't need that obligation, if she, say, after three months of maternity leave wants to go back to work. Maybe that wouldn't even be the case if we had a maternity leave for up to a year. Maybe then this measure wouldn't be necessary. And, under Article 103(7), the resignation follows: "if an employee abuses a disease". How can a pregnant woman abuse her illness? A pregnant woman can always get sick. The only thing that can happen is that the doctor writes that she's pregnant, and she's not pregnant. Then it's the doctor's responsibility. It's gone too far here for reasons of getting fired, with the responsibility of a woman who's pregnant or who's on maternity leave. That is why I ask you to think about it a little bit and that it would be too much for the government to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15208	Anyone else want a word? MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unless the Proposer accepts this amendment, then Article 78 is no place in the "No Cancellation" chapter at all. I expected members to come here who are banned, not -- to be fired, but under these conditions, too, may be fired. Put that in another head. Turns out there's no restraining order in the draft labour law. The family, according to us, is the woman who's been sent away for child care for the fourth month. She is a foster parent, and the fact that she is no longer called a foster parent, but called a nurse, that's his problem. For us, she's a foster mother. When does she get fired under the draft labour law? It is all related to Article 103(3), paragraph 1, if the employee commits his or her own guilt to breach the work obligation set out in the labour contract. Well, at least that's said, if he does it in violation of a work obligation that he's supposed to lose his employment relationship. No, but the legislator writes it, so now he leaves the employer at will to interpret any breach of the labour obligation set out in the labour contract. The employer can fire the mother, the pregnant, the nurse, as you call her, because you haven't separated which birth injuries he can get fired for, and for which work obligations he can't get fired. Infringement of work obligations under the employment contract is also a delay in work. Minimal injury. Under Article 103(4), cancellation is possible - if he does not respect work discipline, that is, if his behaviour is such that he cannot continue his work with the employer. As a woman who is at home, nursed a child, she may not respect the employer's work discipline. She didn't get up at night when the kid cried, what did the lawmaker want to regulate? It is regulated in the family, who rises at night, who heats the milk for the first few months to three hours, and then once, that meal is thrown out to the child. "If an employee commits a crime at work or in connection with work" - (Art. Point 103)a is not at work, has a working relationship but is at home, fostering a child. He's not going from maternity leave to a factory to commit a crime and run home. "If an employee abuses sick leave" - (Art. It doesn't make sense, really. Or protect us from these women who are willing to give birth to children or do not protect them; and to represent how you protect them, so that you do not protect them, it does not really make sense. To these women, who write bill proposals, I recommend that they think more about women than about MP cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15210	Anyone else want a word? If none of the authorized participants in the debate want a word, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 33, against 102, abstention, was not voted 14, a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Garčević submitted to the 78th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15212	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I felt that an objection should be added to this article of the Law in one part. I expected that the new government, the human government, as it was presented, would offer protection for children, young women and pregnant women in the best of sight, as they say we did not offer when we were in power. Unfortunately, what is offered is below all dignity for mother, youth and children. We've been through a lot of members, and in principle some of us accept, and here we are, when it comes to Article 78. - It's a restraining order. It puts everything on the pregnant woman. A pregnant woman can commit a crime, a foster mother can commit a crime, she may not like the employer. I ask the question - then what can a pregnant woman do to make it nice? I say there is nothing more beautiful than a young person who is pregnant, who bears new generations to our people. If the minister, and those who helped him make this, has a different view, then it's quite another problem. I suggested that the text be deleted from Article 78: "if the terms of Article 103(3) and point 7) of the Law were obtained". Point 3 of Article 103 reads: "If an employee commits an offence to a work obligation established by a labour contract". Please, in an explanation given by the Serbian government, it is said (let's now while the pregnant woman is at work) that injury to labour discipline can also be done by maternity. If she's on maternity leave, then she's in the house, and if she's in the house, then she can't do a job discipline injury. We're going from the assumption, and here, the minister says he can come into the company, steal something and carry it. As far as I know, most births are both human and mother, something that is most beautiful. He won't leave home to steal unless he's got something to eat or he's got nothing to support himself. So, if he steals from whoever he has, is that a sin? We make pregnant women and mothers have enough to keep them from stealing from the company. The family may, under Article 103(4), be fired: "if they do not respect working discipline". Please, when's the maternity leave at home and she's fostering a child, so what kind of work discipline? So he'll go back to the employer and argue with him. Please, it says in point 4: "If he does not respect work discipline." And fired at point 7) of Article 103: "If he abuses sickness." We say we're human society, and we're starting with everything being abused. As far as I know, fewer mothers and pregnant women have used something, and there is no such thing; and those who have abused them are sick, and then they should be protected and treated. Therefore, that part of the law should be accepted in amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15213	Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Toma Busetic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is necessary to accept these amendments, which are the same as those submitted by MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic and SPS MP Vladimir Garcevic. Simply, this article 78 does not guarantee any safety or safety for pregnant women or for those employees who use this leave for special care of the child. This should be deleted, this last sentence that is related to article 103 of this law. Why? Simply, all of these points in Article 103 of this Law can be absolutely subjective when it comes to the employer's assessment, and regarding the violation of a work obligation, the behavior of an employee who is such that he cannot continue his work, and the abuse of sickness. All of this can be, I say, an absolutely subjective assessment of the employer. For example, what an abuse of a pregnant woman’s illness; perhaps it is a good example when she goes to the pharmacy to get her medicine, and the employer notices her and says, “You have violated all your rights and you are fired.” I think these amendments should be accepted because they are good and are in favour of the protection of employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15215	Please, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15216	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very important amendment, but you really need to take care of the opportunities of this society at a time when we are trying to legally define the area of labour legislation. In principle, the debate mentions examples not only of countries that are in transition, but also of much more developed countries than ours, as well as of circumstances in which the rights of those who use maternity leave are regulated legally, i.e. the absence of child care. As far as this amendment is concerned, the Labour Relations Act, which is currently in force, has made it very clear the circumstances under which the working relationship for those on maternity leave ceases, i.e. the right to care for the child. These are all the circumstances, except for the circumstances under which someone, based on a technological surplus, may lose the right to a working relationship. Therefore, only in situations where maternity care was treated as a technological surplus would it be guaranteed status under a contract, i.e. a collective contract which regulated the area of that labour law. Please have the strength above all to acknowledge the state of our society and to regulate the rights and privileges that belong to our citizens according to the capacities of our society. We are not able to treat that area differently than the proposed law. I think that's correct and that there are all those objections that were mentioned earlier, since they may have some political basis, but they have no economics. This law must also take care of the economic strength of our society. So these aren't disfigured families, or persons who use the right to care for a child. The circumstances under which the acquired employment relationship can be lost are precisely defined, and I think that in this respect they are fully equal rights, i.e. they are not diminished in relation to the existing Labour Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15217	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 12, v 109, abstention one, was not voted 9, a total of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Garčević. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 29, there are no abstentions against 111, 9 did not vote, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 80th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is just another category of employees and the amendment asking for even wider protection than the one we've been looking for for for maternity, pregnant woman. It's about disabled workers. In Article 80. The draft labour law shall be laid down when an employee's work disability ceases working relationship under Article 103. Article 103 regulates in which case the employer may cancel an employment contract if there are reasonable reasons for this to apply to the employment capacity of the employee, his behaviour and the needs of the employer. There are eight points, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and we are asking that all eight points be eliminated as the basis for firing disabled workers. It is true that disabled workers are provided with the protection of special regulations. Not this bill, the only law that regulates work, employer-employee-to-work relationship, employer-to-work relationship, can't regulate that area. The promoter predicted that, on all grounds, the employer could fire the disabled employee; if it was found that the employee did not achieve the results of the work. You know, if someone could get the results of the work, it wouldn't be a disability. He'd be an employee. He wouldn't come into this category. You wouldn't ask for special protection. He cannot make the same contribution to disabled work in many areas as he who is fully commercially capable. If it is established that the employee does not have the necessary knowledge and ability to carry out the work he is working on, he will be fired from the labour contract in that case. It won't be disabled work that will be concluded with the new employer. This predicts firing all disabled workers today - tomorrow. Because a new employer comes in, determines the needs of one job, finds that he is working in a disabled place, and he cannot provide the necessary skills and cancels his work contract. If you have in mind that you have already eliminated wartime and military people in several members, that you are eliminating disabled workers by any means necessary for this member of the law? Milka, you'd love to go to heaven because of nature, and your society is in hell.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15219	Mr. Nikolic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15220	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very problematic explanation of Article 80 of this Law, Chapter 7, which is defined in the proposed Labour Act as a chapter establishing the protection of disabled persons. This fear would be justified if there were no article 1 in the 80s, which says to the letter: "Employed person of employment, in accordance with pension and disability insurance regulations, the employer is obliged to provide jobs according to the remaining work capacity". So everything else is a cartoon of this member of the law and it can be politically effective, but it's also too radical a deviation from what we're actually deciding. Therefore, Article 1 of the 80th very precise circumstances have been laid down under which the employer enters into a working contract with a disabled person and the circumstances under which the work capacity is defined, or term, of the remaining work capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15221	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 107, the abstentioned were not voted 10, a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 82nd Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 82(1), in which we said that after the words "doctor" puts an end to the rest of the text being deleted. Namely, the Department of Information on Temporary Prevention of Labour says that the employee is obliged to provide the employer with a medical certificate containing time-expected prevention to work within three days of the day of the occurrence of the temporary prevention of work, within the meaning of the health insurance rules. I asked to delete this "time-expected prevention for work", simply because in many cases such a thing is completely impossible to predict, especially when you expect only real specialist examinations; who will know how and how many people will be absent, that I am not talking about some other cases in which it is absolutely impossible because of the nature of the disease. That is why we believe that this amendment is and is one technical order, but other than the legal-technical editorial, it has a certain moral supplement, which is why this amendment should be accepted. This will also make it easier for healthcare professionals and employees themselves. The explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for which it rejected this amendment, the minister may not have read it, but what should we do, says that the above-mentioned amendment cannot be accepted for reasons of frequent cases of abuse of disease in practice in this law introduces the obligation of the doctor to issue a certificate of prevention with the indication of time etc. There are cases, more cases, not one or two, or 10 or 20 percent, when it's absolutely impossible for a doctor. Here you state it as some sort of legal obligation, as a cognitive norm, that he is obliged to write it. What are we gonna do if he can't write it? Then who's going to answer for something like that? Why bring him and the employee into such a difficult situation? I think an amendment like this can be accepted. No one should mind. The only thing you go from the very text of the law is obvious, and from this you see the proposal's intention -- where and how all abuses of workers are, and how it must be respected. In my day, when I was working black in London, and I got sick, the employer didn't ask me if I'd come tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but I came to work when I got better. Don't underestimate our people so much and think of them as just frauds, but we should give people the chance to be as normal as everyone else in the world, that they don't differ by anything, that they have the right to be sick, not to force someone, especially when the outcome of the disease is uncertain, when the solution to the health problem is uncertain, that they have to write -- it'll be in three days, in seven days or 15 days. Who knows when it'll be? Especially if he's just got his specialist exams ahead of him. Which doctor can stand behind what's written on paper and says, "he can stay away for a month (because then someone will be responsible for his worsening health condition if he shows up in that period), and he can also put on a year, even though a man can heal within 10 days. Both can be binding, in this case for the employer. I find the solution very bad for both the employee and the employer, and no abuse of sick will prevent this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15223	Anyone else want a word? Here you go. The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15224	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 82(1) should be put to death for at least two reasons. It provides that an employee is required to provide the employer with a medical certificate containing and time-expected prevention for work within three days of the day. First of all, why would an employee bring a doctor's certificate? The employee is obliged to inform the employer that he is not fit to work. All the other regulations regulate it. When he gets to work, he brings in evidence that he was on sick leave. All he has to do is call in sick within five days. Why would he bring a doctor's certificate? That's the first problem. It's incomprehensible, it's unacceptable. Second, what's the doctor going to write him? Can a doctor do it within three days, there are a lot of doctors here, can you predict what a disease is and how long it will take? What if the doctor finds out it's cancer? Whether to write - he is expected to be unable to work anymore. So a man gets a heart attack when he brings in a certificate like that and when his employer says, "Listen, you've got cancer, you won't be able to work anymore." Why didn't you think about it? Just a little bit of a headache. Why would a lawyer predict how long someone would be temporarily prevented and absent from work? Why would you put a doctor in a position to compromise his opinion? He writes - he'll be here in seven days, and his condition is complicated by some additional virus, temperature, becoming 20 days. What's the employer gonna do? Asking to quit the doctor who deceived him and prevented him from manufacturing. Or it doesn't mean anything. If it doesn't, what will the bill do? I know it doesn't mean anything, but what do you want with the bill? Will his child be able to bring confirmation that a man who is ill doesn't have to come to the employer? This isn't right, it's not right. I see that you want to adopt as soon as possible, translate into German, and send to Germany, say, "Here, we're done." But at least something, a little bit, at least...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15225	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 101, the two abstentions, did not vote 13, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 82nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic and Vladimir Garcevic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? He has the word of MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15226	Dear Presidency, it seems difficult to convince the minister here, and it is difficult to convince the MPs who have drawn what they have drawn, however, I am speaking to the citizens of Serbia, certainly, and certainly not to those who insist on pushing the Serbian people where they should not. Therefore, it is said that the employee is obliged to submit a confirmation within three days at the latest, and I ask the question -- what health care facility in Serbia, in these working and living conditions, can determine within three days how long will one who is sick stay on sick leave? It would be good, because we have a doctor from the current government, too, that they say they're doing it within three days. An even bigger mistake is -- it says so -- if it's a serious disease, it takes one who's a member of the family to bring the same kind of confirmation within three days. Why are we, gentlemen dear, playing with sick people? If we're not in a position to provide them with medication, if we're not in a position to provide them with free health care, so are we pushing them now, in addition to not being able to buy drugs, that within three days someone determines the health condition of a man? You have no moral or human right to do that. I claim to be responsible, and in contact with healthcare professionals, no one in three days will be able to deliver such a confirmation. Next - certain analyses must be carried out, which may require seven days of work. Therefore, in order to give a complete report and an assessment, the doctor must perform a number of pre-ops, and these advances require seriousness in the process. I agree with you only in the following: that you should inform the employer that he is ill, and the doctor will say seven days, eight, but finally write how much it will really be, none of the doctors will be able to. Therefore, this member should be deleted as such, and let us first put our citizen, our man, and not our employer, not the German and French. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15227	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15228	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, would be good if those who today have moral dilemmas on this amendment had sought answers to these dilemmas before they became opposition, at a time when, for example, in the Health Insurance Fund, they had left a two-billion-mark mandate. As far as this member of the law is concerned, I agree that this is something that is in itself a challenge, but it is also a necessary consequence of the new circumstances in which our society insists, because, besides the employee, we must build an equal relationship with the employer. In the process of planning its business activities, the employer must know which employees he can count on, which he cannot count on, and at what time the working environment in his business was changed. So this is just a member of the Law which places a sign of equality between the employer and the employee. As far as the doctor's role is concerned, I think doctors have to take that responsibility on themselves, because it's something that's in itself a common duty in developed societies. So no one says that the doctor's finding can be changed afterwards and that the doctor's finding cannot be denied through additional analysis, but in fact it is necessary to put the employer in one responsible way to know in which time period he cannot count on his employee, so that he can otherwise organise the process of working in his company. There's nothing unwitting about an employee. Finally, I think it goes in favor of the employees themselves, because who, if not the doctor, will evaluate the period of sickness, treatment and prevention? I think it's something that, in itself, is completely normal and that there was an anomaly in the previous law to abandon one of these members, i.e.. a complete non-definition of the segment, a relationship to the employee and at the same time a relationship to the job, which was very irresponsible. It is equally irresponsible to both employees and to undertakings that suffer damage in this way. So this is a newspaper, but it certainly doesn't go to the expense of an employee, on the contrary, it goes to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15229	Mr Branislav Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15230	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a really unnecessary provision, defined in Article 82, if normal operating conditions are. At each level of governance, whether it is a worker or a highly technologically educated expert, or part of the management system of a company, it is certain that they will report to their company in a well-studden system and inform them of the state in which they are located and the estimates of doctors and their own, when they will be able to function. It is normal to expect that the employer should have such information, especially in the case of special production programmes, special orders, emergency delivery times. It already works in one normal system, but in a system that provides for this law that has a Article 105. (famous) on the system of termination, it may also be misused for the functioning of Article 105. - Cancelled. And that's what we need to talk about. If we define by law that someone is obliged to inform the employer of this matter within three days, and we have heard about the cases of illness, we are immediately in a position to bring the worker, the perpetrator, into a subordinate position relative to the employer - the em must be concerned about the application of Article 105, em, if it does not meet, again Article 105 can be applied. So, there should be measures to abolish the special rights of workers, at least in this position we don't need to question what's certainly already working. And whether there are two billion debts left or not, we should talk in the next context -- that this health system has accepted 700,000 refugees, without any epidemic, that health services have been twice as good, that there have been no participation and that there have been many more drugs than there have been today, since you've been in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15231	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15232	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs cannot accept the opinion of the motionors, or those who will support article 82 in an unaltered form. Here, I accept that, on the day that rockets are moving into space from one of our cosmometers, all cosmometer employees have to fulfill their obligations under Article 82, because they're going to be late, they won't be able to plan whether or not they're going to follow the trajectory up exactly. And this is about a classic industry, a technologically quite outdated one, in which nothing depends on whether an employee is going to be on sick leave for three or five days and whether an official doctor will inform the employer, or if communication will go, as it is today, with the head of department, the brigade, the chief of production, the head of production, the technical director, but at what level. And today, an employer, at least as much as I don't recognize social property, or there someone cares about production; and as soon as a worker calls him, he asks how many days he thinks he's going to be away and that's the normal communication between the employer and the employee. Leave the doctors out of it. To be honest, I think doctors should take a stand to always write that it's undetermined how long it's going to be on sick leave, because it's really hard for him to say it's going to be three or four or five days. You know, for a lab to issue results now takes four or five days. Did any of you go now to give blood, when they're not, and when they're supposed to come to give blood? You think it's tomorrow morning? That's not true. A few days. I don't know where these people live. It's only private if you want to pay. Health care facilities are what they are, and you've broken the level of health services to the end. You'd better accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15233	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 111, a abstentioned one, five did not vote, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Milos Lukic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Zivko Selakovic, as representative of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15234	I've obviously got malar -- whenever I go out for a pay phone, the microphones don't work. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is the amendment of Milos Lukic, who is justly absent because the man is in bed with crutches; he tried to come and participate in the work of this assembly. He couldn't until, unfortunately, much healthier than he came. If he were here, he'd probably give an expert opinion, as a lawyer, and explain this better, but I'll make sure I say something about this amendment. Since Article 83 refers to earnings, the text of the amendment has been proposed in Article 83(1). The bill after the word "confirms" adds the words "work contract", and after saying "general act", the point is placed, and the rest of the text is deleted. This has been done because it comes to collapsing labour contracts, collective agreements, labour regulations, etc. The labour contract cannot be levelled with the law, collective contract and the labour rule, because it, as an individual act in accordance with the law, collective contract or labour rules, determines the earnings, in which sense the recast of this attitude is proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15235	Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 112, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 83rd Amendment were submitted by MPs Vera Markovic, Branko Pavlovic, Vlatko Sekulović and Miroslav Christodulo. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, by realizing that the proposed solution was essentially covered by the amendment of MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to the same member, which became an integral part of the bill's proposal. Do the applicants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15236	In Article 83 following the first position, point 2 is added, which reads: "Employees are guaranteed equal earnings for the same work or for the work of equal value that they achieve in the employer". The essence of this amendment is to achieve full equality of employees in making compensation for their work. The absence of discrimination against women, members of minority nations or social groups that are negatively stereotyped shall be guaranteed. So this principle of equality in earnings is one of the oldest, fundamental principles of working legislation in the world, and most of the laws on the work of Western European countries put this principle first. I am pleased to find that the amendment in the same text has been accepted by the Government, a representative of the Government, and I am pleased to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15237	I find that the proposing representative has withdrawn this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Mrs. Pop-Lazic doesn't want a word, but the word has Mr. Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15238	The amendment is just seemingly and just about irrelevant. It's about whether in Section 1 and Section 3 it's going to say "or" or it's going to say "i"; in fact, it's one of the key disputes you have with the union and I'm here on the side of the union, for a number of reasons. One of the basics is that you eliminate this collective agreement, and yet it's whether you want it or not, the constitutional category. Paragraph 1 of Article 83 of the Law states: "Employee is entitled to an adequate profit, which is determined in accordance with the law, general act or contract of employment". This means, if earnings are contracted by a labour contract, they will not be negotiated by a general act, they will not have to have an employer with trade unions, with representatives of employees at all to sign collective agreements because they will not commit it, and the collective contract is the basis for the exercise of the rights of employees and must be a figure in the legislation and has priority over the individual act, over the labour contract. I don't know why you're avoiding collective agreements and you've accepted a previous amendment that is, not to say communist, but at least, to say completely socialist. I could accept that you oblige the employer to make the same work in the state authorities, or to work at the same value, to earn the same money to the employees. But why do you define a private employer, as if he respects it, as if one who has a lower salary than a colleague who does the same job with a private employer, would have the opportunity to determine at all what his colleague has to pay and as if it were the basis for him to get a dispute with the employer. Then what kind of interest does an employer have to run his own factory if you, in the previous amendment, order him to give all employees, in the same jobs, the same salary? They're doing the same work, and even if the same work results are being done, he's going to determine who's going to pay more. How can you ask for the same salary, and for the state authorities you didn't see it coming? (Dragan Milovanovic: To make women equal. I accept that it's not a throw-off, but that you're trying to prove it to me. Mr. Minister, neither the woman writes here nor the Serb writes, nor the Russian writes, nor the Hungarian writes. It has nothing to do with discrimination on any basis. This is what you tried to avoid discrimination against employees, but admit that the employer has the right to discriminate against employees. If he had no right, in Germany, a Serb or a minority member who came from Serbia would not have 1,500 marks, while the German would have the same job as 4,000 marks. That's what we leave to the employer. He decides how much he's going to pay the workforce for any job, and now you've got him law-abiding to pay for the same workers in his factory, as if that's even possible. The communists, I remember, perhaps 15 to 20 years ago tried to spend their entire former SFRY employees at the same jobs, with the same school supplies, having the same salary. Of course, it couldn't be done, because it's a sub-level, and that's exactly what they called it, which no one could carry out. You are now entering capitalism with the provision that employees have the same salary for the same jobs with the employer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15239	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 111 abstentions, there was no vote of eight, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15240	Dear People's MPs, the SPS advocated that the collective labour contract was a binding part of the law. That is why the many amendments we have tabled, as well as amendments to other parties that have representation in parliament, concern the improvement of this legislative proposal. But if, in the chapters of this proposal, the collective agreement, the amendments we have submitted, failed to pass: in Chapter 2 - the establishment of a working relationship, in Chapter 3 - working time, in Chapter 4 - rest and absence, and in Chapter 5 - protection of employees, I do not see why in Chapter 6 - fees, earnings and other issues, cannot be placed "the obligation of collective bargaining", especially at the current economic and economic moment. I think there's a full justification here and a union request, which we fully support, not because of some political attitudes, but because of legal and economic relations, and the present moment. The employer's obligation to make a profit should be based on the general act, in this case on a collective contract. It is impossible at this time, when there is still the social sector, that the employer's obligation is to regulate a number of earning issues with work contracts, such as: earnings in working time, earnings in hours spent, earnings in earnings, income supplements and others. For this reason, I have also submitted this amendment, which says that the word "general act" is deleted, and instead of those words it says "collective contract"; the same thing as in paragraph 3 that it stands for "collective contract", and the words "work contract" to be deleted. For this reason, I also submit one proposal to the Minister: The position of the 2nd member reads: "In the sense of the position of the 1st member, it makes a profit which the employee has earned for the work done and the time spent on work, increased earnings, ex post earnings and other receipts, except for the fees incurred by Article 91 of this Act and other receipts provided for in Article 92(1) of this Act." On 3 May of this year, we brought amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act, where Finance Minister Djelic, moving from net to gross earnings, has convinced us greatly that a field supplement, a warm meal and a regression should enter gross earnings and profits with an add-on. Article 3 of the Amendment and the addition of the Labour Relations Act, that is, in addition to Article 64 of the 64th, reads: "Employee has the right to supplement earnings within the meaning of Article 63(2) of this Act, where it makes an addition to earnings". I cite what is not now in this legislative proposal, which is: diet during work (for days spent at work), regression for the use of annual holidays, labour costs and stay on the ground. With this bill, these attitudes, these criteria that we've wasted so much time here, they've now been erased, and it doesn't go into gross earnings, nor does it get into the profits that the worker needs to receive, nor does it go into retirement ground. That means you're undoing those solutions you've already made. For that reason, I believe that this is the way and obligation of collective bargaining based on profit chapters, subsequent earnings, should be left at this time. So I suggest that you make a correction and accept this amendment, because in such a way you will satisfy not only workers, but at this point, to bring the economic situation and the market economy into a position for the worker to be provided at least in terms of profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15241	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15242	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are on Chapter 6. The labour law, which bears the title "Currency, ex post earnings and other questions". The legislator suggested that Article 83(1) reads: "Employee has the right to receive adequate income, which is determined in accordance with the law, general act or contract of employment". Since you've already voted as you voted when it comes to Articles 1, 2 and 3, it's clear that you left the difference between the labour or collective contract regulations. In fact, you've made a lot of reference to the position of collective contract as one of the top achievements in regulating the rights of workers in relations with the employer. Our amendment shows you the possibility to slightly improve the position of a collective contract, because here I am referring to a law that already has a Article 1, where general acts are defined - a labour rule or a collective contract. Here we offer that instead of the word "general act" stands the "collective contract". In this way, we are trying to motivate the employer, to further focus it on defining the area of earnings by agreement between the two sides, not by means of an independent act called the Labour Regulations, or the Labour Contract. Our suggestion is that this amendment be adopted and that, at least a little bit, preserve the position of the collective agreement and create a chance, to say and the will of the employer to proceed to the settlement. Simply, if we pass this collective story on, for example, to this assembly, we, in the election of Ms. Natasha Micic as Parliament Speaker, had one collective paper; our colleague, Vice President, Mr. Ljubisa Maravic, as chairman during her election, fully fits in with collective work, and he did exactly what he should do in the election of the President of the Assembly. On the other hand, we have the individual work of Mr. Micunovic, a political juggler who has moved from communist to chairman... (President: Please, Mr. Ivkovic, stick to the topic. )......................................................................................................... which now calls for Mr Ljubisa Maravić to disband the Assembly, which is, of course, total idiotism.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15243	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, replica or reporting?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15244	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, may be most of this hall would be trying to be funny if her working day had started at 17.45 as my predecessor, and we have been here since 10.00 hours, and despite everything, the debate on the Labour Act is running without a problem. A very serious remark was made, unlike this unserious finding, Mr. Ivkovic, by the SPS representatives, and it concerned the net and gross profit ratios and everything we defined under gross earnings in May of the month, during a very extensive debate. I'll remind you only of Article 91 or Article 92. These members, in fact, are regulated by all the important issues mentioned through the explanations of this amendment initiative, and therefore I do not think that this Labour Act is incorrect to all those who participated in the debate during May. In fact, this article 84 fully meets workers, i.e. employees, and does not question the concept of gross earnings, I think it is important to point out and point out. And finally, I'd like to congratulate you on today's work, I think we've done a great job, despite everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15245	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? This was a replica, Mr. Jovanovic replicated to you, Mr. Ivkovic. Please, Mr. Ivkovic, let's finish this day nice. Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15246	What was the basis for Mr Jovanovic's replica? Please, Mr. Jovanovic had absolutely no basis for replication, he appeared as president of the parliamentary group, and I am reporting on the replica of him because he mentioned my last name. The basis for the replica in my presentation, Mr Jovanovic did not have at all. He called as president of the parliamentary group. Are you the legislator or Mr. Minister? We had no comment in the O.R., Madam President of the National Assembly, we had no comment that it was a replica. He answered as president of the parliamentary group and everyone in this room understood. Please give me the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15247	I'm sorry, I really can't give it to you, because I gave Mr. Jovanovic the right to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15248	What replica? What happened in my presentation; we'll have a stenogram tomorrow and we'll talk about it. Otherwise, Mr. Jovanovic, I was in the O.R. when you were, but you who are proposing the law must have most of the quorum in order to be able to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-10-0.u15249	Mr. Ivkovic, I didn't give you my word. Is anyone else answering for the amendment submitted by MP Miomir Ilic? You spoke. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 48, against 118, there are no abstentions, not seven, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'd like to thank you all today for your correct work, especially today's Human Rights Day - December 10th. Let me inform you that the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs will be held tomorrow starting at 9:00 p.m., in the third floor room. Bon appétit. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 157 people's celebrations. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I find that the use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Dusan Golubovic, Branko Ružic and Milos Lukic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Moving to 11. Point of the agenda: – Proposal for a RAD Law (addition) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
