ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's the third - fourth day we're discussing the draft law on working in particular. Through the amendment to article 84, we return to the beginning of the story. So you might want to focus your attention on what's being said, because maybe this amendment and this member of yours is a chance to correct everything you've done wrong. When I say "we return to the beginning of the story", it means Article 1 of the law, i.e. the obligation of a collective agreement, which is being advocated by the Serbian Radical Party. It is obvious that she is the only one in this assembly hall who respects the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 35, which strictly prescribes that every citizen has the right to work and the right to a collective contract. If, Mr. Minister, and you from the so-called ruling majority, had accepted Mr. Nikolic's amendment as a member of the first law, we wouldn't have the need to discuss Article 84 now. That would be something to mean. In front of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, I asked that the words "or" be replaced by the allied "i" and the article 84 would read as follows: "Employees have the right to increased earnings, in accordance with the general act and (was - or) a working contract, for overtime, work on the day of the holiday, which is day off, night work and work on shifts. The general act and (any - or) labour contract can also determine other cases in which employees are entitled to increased earnings." This is how we get back to what Mr Nikolic warned you about during the amendment to the first member of the law and what we talked about in principle. That's the key thing that you're arguing about, since you've agreed, has deceived the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia over a collective contract, in addition to Article 105. That's what they blame you the most. I must certainly point out that this bill is the fifth or sixth version, and in the draft labour law on June 26th, you, gentlemen of the Ministry, and above all you, Mr. Minister, promised the Independent Union that you would accept that the word "or" is replaced by "i". However, after that, you deceived them, and that, along with everything they have stated and delivered to us MPs, is one of the reasons why they seek your shift, or resignation because of such a scandalous bill, which does not guarantee employees what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees them. The law has led to the uncertainty of all employees in Serbia, your coalition, your majority group in crisis, as it has never been before, with an uncertain end. And whether and how you will continue to dispute among yourselves, it is not important for us Serbian radicals and for most of Serbia's employees at all. It is important that you leave the government as soon as possible as possible as a minister to get out of that resort, to discuss emergency elections as soon as possible, so that the citizens of Serbia and the employees can have responsible authority, the government ready to face all the problems that are difficult for our country and our people today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15252	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 117 abstentions, two, a total of 156 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask the chairman to calm down individuals from the DOS majority who don't know what they're going to do, but rather get and mention some known criminals in Serbia. I don't know why they're talking about them, but that's their problem. As for Article 85, I have submitted an amendment in which I asked that instead of the text in the first position - "The earnings of Article 83 of this Law be paid within the deadlines set by a general act or contract of work, and at least once a month" - is "a general act and a contract of work" because it is a key thing in this bill, something that the motioner deliberately avoided. Not by any chance have all the amendments in which we insisted on a general act, the obligation to have a collective contract. It is true that the proposer avoids at all costs any influence of the collective contract, it is already sufficient for an individual, or even a type contract, an access contract, or only a labour contract, which the employer makes up unilaterally. Only the act can work, no co-operation with trade unions, deals, compromises is necessary at all. It's something that the SRS parliamentary group is against in this House and it's something that we've been against since the start of the debate on this law. Since I have the view that this has been rejected for the same reasons as the amendment to the First People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, it says among other things: "The above-mentioned amendment is not accepted, because an individual collective contract is a basic act with the employer governing the rights and obligations of the employee. In the case where no trade union is organised with the employer, or the agreement of the participants of the collective agreement is not reached (so when there is no compromise, when no agreement has been reached, when the employer has decided that everything should be the way he wants it to be), employees' rights can be governed by the labour rule or the labour contract. "So, only the way he wants it or the way the employer wants it. In this way, if you would accept this amendment or amendment to the SRS parliamentary group, however you will, we would give collective agreements the right power, we would return their importance, their importance, their role, and it seems to me that we would do much to fix this law. This law is really bad. It is no wonder that it is causing growing social earthquakes and disdain for people and citizens in Serbia, who are not only organized into unions, but also people who watch these assembly sessions and who appear. I ask and demand that you accept this amendment, because in this way we will strengthen the role of employees, strengthen the role of unions, say that there really are collective agreements, that there will be some legal validity, that it will mean something in a business sense. And not just refuse all amendments to the opposition and say, "The employer is a god," and the workers are just here to listen and nothing else." I invite you to accept this amendment. As for Vojislav Seselj, since some...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15254	Please don't take Mr. Wolfie off the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15255	I'm not turning off the subject, I'm talking about the subject, because they've been giving me the name of the president of my party. Thank God, he's alive and well, and democracy has arrived, so he's not in your media. He'll be here soon to explain a lot of things to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15256	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 53, against 106, the abstentions were not voted by 11, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miomir Ilic submitted amendments to Articles 84 and 85. Since the pages have been blinded, we are now going back to Article 84. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. I'd like to ask the transporter if he'd like to take a word for it. Here you go. So it's an amendment to Article 84.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15257	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just thought I'd double warn, if we of the SPS have the right to warn, the chairman, for two reasons. However, the chairman has now corrected himself. She put the thing in place. But yesterday's session is over with...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15258	Please return to the amendment. You've been given a word about the amendment, not about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15259	I'm going back to the amendment; but yesterday's session is over because you didn't give me a word for the replica, which I was right about, Mr. Cedi Jovanovic, because he misread my statement on the amendment to Article 83, which is very important. Therefore, I want to be enabled; yesterday you did not allow me to do so, and I was right. In order not to take this into account the reasons for the amendment to Article 84.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15260	We've finished discussing the amendment to Article 83, so I'm not in a position to grant you that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15261	I'd like to include my discussion on these issues. I asked the minister, who he didn't come out to answer. It's about...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15262	Mr. Ilic, get back on the subject, and I'll turn your time back on from the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15263	So, to article 84?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15264	I'll give you time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15265	Article 84 provides for increased earnings as one of the types of work compensation. As part of the initiative and requires the SPS to be a basic general act to regulate the issues of workers' earnings, wages, income allowance and all that the worker needs to receive. The amendment says that instead of the word "general act", a "collective contract" is to be placed in the bill, which will regulate the issue of increased earnings. I again draw attention to the fact that the current law, in Article 64a, adds to profit, means diet during work, so on. a warm meal, a regress for the use of annual holidays, labour costs and stay on the ground, which are not regulated in the proposal for this law by any of these members. I ask the Minister again: is this matter regulated by this legal proposal or not? Whether or not to be left to the employer and since there is no longer the obligation of collective bargaining, that these benefits, or additions that I have mentioned, must or should not be taken into account in the construction of the Labour and Labour Contracts Regulation. For this reason, this amendment was submitted to Article 84, that instead of what is said, it should be said that employees have the right to increased earnings, not in accordance with the general act, but in a collective agreement. Deleting means "general act or contract a work", and remains for overtime, working for holidays, which is a day off, night work and work on shifts. In the second position, instead of a "general act", it should stand "by collective agreement," and the words "work contract" are deleted. The explanation I gave also applies to Article 83, and I am telling Mr. Cedi Jovanovic that his observation, or the misreading of my discussion yesterday, is in the following...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15266	Mr. Ilichu, I did not give you the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15267	Because it's about that. Because the members of 91 and 92 are wrongly interpreted because there are no income supplements in the mentioned elements, a warm meal, a regress, a field supplement, but there is an official route, travel expenses, severance fees and other fees that are not what they are. I believe that by adopting this amendment, we would correct the mistakes that are imminent and which will lead employers, especially workers, to an unequal position compared to the current situation that we have made on 3 May of this year. Can I talk about article 85?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15268	We must first vote on the amendment to Article 84. Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 57, against 106, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic to article 85. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15269	I will again point out that the SPS believes that in order to address these situations and the crises that exist, surely, at this point in the field of engagement or legislation that applies to collective bargaining, all the arguments that we have made here are behind Article 85 here. I ask the Minister once again, for the third time, to come out for this paytable and to say whether these fees and bonuses come in as a binding factor and an element within profit or not. I may be wrong, but I want to know, all of us MPs have the right to do so, as well as the workers and citizens who listen to this debate in parliament -- whether the field supplement, the regress for the annual vacation and a warm meal at the time of adoption of this law, (and later apply this law) is binding on the employer or not. I am particularly interested in the category of past work: whether it enters into an obligation or not. So all the time we insist on a collective agreement to settle the issue of other fees, because certain groups in the collective agreement can, for example, regulate construction branches. Otherwise, we'll have a situation where one company pays for a hot meal, and the other company doesn't pay, the third one pays for a field allowance, and the fourth one doesn't. I ask Mr. Minister to provide an answer, and I believe that this amendment that I have submitted should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15270	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are constantly insisting on the return of a collective contract to life, namely in the provisions of this law. Why are we doing this? Because the rulebook or the labour contract are not the same acts as the collective contract. Simplely, collective agreements are a significant achievement for all employees and all workers. And yet, for what reason - because collective agreements are concluded by government and unions. For example, general collective agreements are concluded by the competent union, the majority union and the government, and when it comes to special collective agreements, they are concluded, when we talk about employers, authorised union representatives and the competent authority of the Chamber of Commerce. When we talk about public enterprises, whose founder is the Republic, it is again the trade unions and the Government of the Republic of Serbia; other public enterprises, the authorised union organisation and the founder of public services, which earn money from the Republic's budget, are empowered by the union organisation and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to state authorities and organisations, we again have the union and the government of Serbia; when we talk about compulsory social security organisations, we have the union, the boards of directors of these organisations and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, etc. So there's a government guarantee everywhere and there's unions everywhere. By eliminating collective agreements, every government obligation ceases, and the union's influence becomes negligible and minor. And that's why we say collective agreements are very important, that the significant achievement of all employees and all workers. That's why we insist on collective agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15272	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15273	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 86th Law, has been regulated on minimum earnings issues. The position of the 3rd member states: "If no agreement under Article 2 is reached, within 10 days of the date of the beginning of the agreement, the minimum earnings shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia." Social democracy MPs propose that this stance be deleted by their amendment. There are several reasons for this, let me explain. The proposed text defines the power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to establish minimum earnings if the Government, the representative union and the employers' association fail to reach an agreement on the level of minimum earnings. We think that if such a solution remains in the proposed text of this Article 3, the Government and the Employers' Association, you will all agree, we would have no interest in reaching an agreement, because the government itself could make a decision in the event of a failure to reach this agreement. And finally, another argument - this is how the idea is compromised, long-placed in this parliament and in the public of Serbia, about the necessary and necessary social dialogue, and the government takes over the unnecessary part of responsibility. That is why we propose to the Assembly to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15274	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15275	Although I do not normally comment on the amendments submitted by the authorities to the draft labour law, I suggest you do not go over this amendment lightly. Indeed, the amendment is very important and helps those who propose the law, as well as all of us, to get a clean cheek out of the Assembly and to say that this law is not so rigorous towards the employee; that this law respects attitudes and governments, but also the representative union. And this, so-called. A representative association of employers, it's really a made-up term in this law and it's not going to represent anything. A 86th member regulates minimum earnings. So the employees of the standard effect and full-time have guaranteed minimum earnings. The extent to which minimum earnings will be guaranteed will be decided, according to Law 2, by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the representative union and the representative association of employers organised for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. However, attitude 3 completely dissuades this, and says, "If no agreement is reached from the position of the 2nd member, within 10 days of the date of the beginning of the agreement, the minimum earnings are determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia." In that agreement, the relationship is 2:1. The government and the employer are on one side, the union is on the other, and then suddenly the government says it doesn't need an employers' association for those negotiations either. What if a government official doesn't show up for 10 days to negotiate, what if a government official doesn't participate in the agreement? He doesn't say he's going to vote, he doesn't say what kind of decision he's going to make. Without the government's attitude, there's no minimum profit. It's one basis by which this amendment should be accepted. Why should you allow the Government to determine, or why you are predicting a settlement; why is it not said that the Government will establish minimum earnings without any agreement? The second, perhaps even bigger problem, is - and what if it's in 20,000 companies? Whether the government will load itself with such a burden, that within 10 days agreements in 10,000 cases; or they will say - the job is too large, the government will only determine that, and then give some money for the territory of the entire Republic. I don't think he's gonna make it into every employer's business. Either they agree or the government will arbitration, and by no means -- they will agree for 10 days, and on the 11th day, the government of the Republic of Serbia is arbitration. You see how long the government's negotiations with individual unions, with unions employed in state bodies are for education, health, etc. Whether the government has succeeded within 10 days to reach a minimum wage agreement with them -- it is not, but is delayed for next week, then for the next week. That means there won't be an agreement here in 10 days. We all know that now. And that means the government will determine, so write in the bill that the government will determine the minimum profit, that we know what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15276	Thank you. He has the word Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15277	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, if we start assuming that the government is an enemy of society, then there may be some logic in my colleague's previous interpretation. I will remind you of the changes we have made to this area of legislation, first of all, through Mr Djelic's initiatives, then the corrections of the existing Labour Relations Act, the transition to earnings, among other things, by defining the concept of minimum earnings. I'll quote you a member of the 66th existing Labour Relations Act, which speaks of guaranteed income, which includes profits, fees and other incomes. The member says the amount of net earnings guaranteed is determined by the government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the formerly obtained opinion of the Council of the Union of Serbia and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. So this law puts the Serbian government in a position where negotiators are defined, i.e. institutions whose opinion it should consult, and it is not mandatory to respect such a position. In Article 86. The draft labour law we are discussing is very clear in position 3. The Serbian government will establish minimum earnings within 10 days of the start of the agreement, unless an agreement is reached. The agreement must be reached between the employers' union, on the one hand, representative trade unions, on the other hand and the government, which must realise the social dimension of the state and take care of it, on the third hand. What's the representative union in our society? What is the representative union of employers? It's true that now we only have one, with me reminding you, let's say, of the Chamber of Commerce Act. Perspectives are being opened which are significantly different from the current situation. So we must also think about those situations where there will be anomalies in the application of this law, that an anomaly that may arise, let's say, in the event of a union's disputing representativeness and you can see that we today have trade unions that support this labour law, which the opposition considers insufficiently strong. You have trade unions like the Union of the Union of Serbia, which participated in negotiations with us and which represented a certain union position, but along with it were some other trade unions, which had a diametrically opposite position from the Union of Unions. So, what's the representative union in our society? What is an employers' union? About that - in a month. You have to think about the situation where the government takes responsibility for itself, determines minimum earnings, and that's nothing in itself that's a revolutionary newspaper, because so far, the government has done it. So it's not about the government's intention to question labour rights in a certain way, but rather to open up a legal possibility to solve problems that may arise, given that our society is in transition. This amendment makes sense, but it could only be effective for a year or two after the reform process in our society is over. At this point, we don't have a representative union. We have a union of employers, but we don't know what its future is; and, definitely, we need a particular and very serious role of government in this segment of bargaining between employers and employees. So, article 86 is not random and attitude 3 is especially not random. It stemmed from such a need, with the fact that, of course, it is necessary to complete the reform process in our society as soon as possible and indeed enable employers and representative trade unions to negotiate and determine minimum earnings without government intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15278	You mean you're misread? Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15279	My previous presentation has indeed been misread, but it has been interpreted in a way that reflects the situation in Serbia. I don't know if the government is an enemy of this society, of the state and of the people, but this draft labour law cannot bear the competition so far in force of the Labour Relations Act and should not introduce us at all to the applicable provisions of the Labour Law. They are all more favourable for workers than the relevant provisions of the Labour Law. I suggested to the government that he be more honest. She could prescribe a member from a valid law, and that would be more honest than a provision like this. It said the government determines minimum earnings, and obtains a prior opinion from the union. And here it will be the same, and here the government will determine the eleventh day, the 15th or the 20th, because in ten days it will not be possible to agree, it will not be possible to reach an agreement between the three participants in the agreement. As far as the union is concerned, there is no union that supports the draft labour law. It is supported by a political party that contains the word union in the name. The political party is taking part in power and I guess we're sick of what's in power, and they don't support the bill. You did this right. You have someone to represent here as a union, and they're only ministers on the way, and only by the way is the minister of the board of directors in the company from which the workers came to strike against obstruction in the adoption of the draft labour law. I think we're dealing with serious people here and we're taking politics seriously. Let go of those little tricks and leave them for your own outwittings. This is about a serious problem. It is not true that we do not have a representative union, or according to this law there will be representative trade unions, but when the law comes into force and it is those who have more than 15%. Whether an amendment has been accepted; I will see, but it doesn't matter. So we have representative unions and we have them when the law comes into force. Then it determines who are representative; we have them. As we have the law, so we have representative unions, because Article 100 and some say who's a representative employer, who's a representative union. It is not the Union of employers that is a representative representative association of employers because, under this law, it will be determined from case to case, from business to business, which is representative of the company as a union, and in which the employers' association is located and represented by those employers who have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15280	The word has the Minister of Labour and Employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15281	Let me get this straight. Mr Nikolic, in his first address, seemed to have made a bit of a mistake when he said that the government would individually negotiate with all businesses in minimum earnings. So minimum earnings are made at the level of the Republic, so that they will only be negotiated once for a certain month or for a certain period, depending on how long it takes. As far as union representation is concerned, it will only be established after the law has been passed, since it has not been established so far. All the collective agreements that have been signed so far, if formally -- legally watched, I'm surprised that no one has initiated it from the opposition, were actually illegal, because the old law says that the collective contract is signed by a majority union organisation, and the majority union organisation has never been established. On the other hand, there was a commitment on which the majority unions were obliged to obtain the minority union's opinion, which they never did again, so there were a lot of problems. This law will address these issues by making it very clear, which are representative trade unions. Based on some of our data, it's now three union power plants that are. The desire of the government of the Republic of Serbia is for workers, employees and for the minimum wage to be formed in the vacuum, until the minimum representativeness of trade unions and employers is established. It's the only explanation and only wish in this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15282	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 68, against 100, two abstentions, did not vote six out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan G. Guduric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 88, and it reads: "Employees have the right to make a profit during their absence from work due to temporary inability to work for up to 60 days, and at the level of the earnings they would make as if they were working." The proposed amendment provides greater material and social security for workers who are absent from work. It is likely, like anything proposed, will not be adopted, but you could adopt some more amendments that at least solve some peripheries, since the key ones in the beginning have not been accepted and we will reach the key 103th and 105th members, whose fate we will see. In addition to all that has been taken away from this law before, something could be added.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15284	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr. Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15285	First, around representative unions: certainly the representative union is the Independent Union, because it has close to a million members. There may be an "Independence" union here somewhere, and these others don't exist. I think they're made-up, of a particular political group or government. When it comes to the amendment of MP Guduric, he had in mind first of all that the economy is not working at all. Today, the situation is that all factories have production significantly less than a year ago. For example, in Pomorava County, the factory has less production than last year, "Staklara" has less production than last year. He tried in some way, given the situation, to ensure safety for this kind of sick leave, to go to the Health Insurance Office. It may be a good proposal, but I will vote for this amendment. There's one more thing -- debt is big when it comes to the Institute, and the sick are currently paying off for the month of June, the delay is six months, just like it was before. However, in this article we have, when we talk about the amount of compensation for sickness, one restriction. There's 65% of the profit here, and we had 85% before, and we had 90%. We discussed this a long time ago when we talked about amendments to the Employment and Labour Law, and we proved to the authorities that those solutions with net earnings were better than gross earnings. We will vote in favour of this amendment, although the situation is difficult however it turns. So, even when it comes to economics and when it comes to the costs incurred by the Health Insurance Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15286	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not vote for this amendment. You have to accept the reality in which the state is located, to accept that this really would be one big exception. For an employer to pay for a two-month stay, it's incomprehensible and unacceptable. Then why are there government funds? Then why is the worker paying into these funds? For a month there is a period within which the employer has reason, there is justification to pay compensation to an employee who is temporarily prevented, unable to work, because he needs the worker and he wants him to recover and return to the work he had done until then. But there's no excuse for the employer paying off for two months. They're usually sick for up to a month. Those sick over a month have to go to the burden of the state, otherwise we wouldn't have any reason to pay taxes, and then we wouldn't have much social security. Thirty days has been a solution so far, hasn't changed. From our point of view, it's totally acceptable and justifiable. Whoever thinks the employer is supposed to pay for long-term sick leave, let him predict that the worker is paying into the employer's funds in case of sick leave. So we can't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15288	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15289	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a pure product of an ideological attitude under the Labour Act. Perhaps this amendment would make sense if we were a socialist or communist utopia society where employers and states were evened. But we're not. In fact, this member of the State Law assumes the obligation to care for an employee after the 30th day of sick leave, if he has to extend his illness for the reason of a disease. It is not correct to burden the employer, especially under such circumstances, with the kind of obligation prescribed by this amendment. In fact, we are here in the paradox, because on the one hand, the importance of the state's role in the field of labour legislation is constantly being potentiated, and employers are burdened on the other. A correct and clear political direction must be taken: do we want to return Serbia to a time when this Labour Law was a real expression of labour law and mutual social relations that were arranged or that we want to change it? If we want to change it, then we'll say that the employer is obliged to take care of his employee for 30 days, and then the state is obliged. If the state isn't able, the government will fall in the elections, and then there will be more power. Or we could say that there are no funds, that workers are no longer obliged to pay social security and that these funds should be transferred to employers or anywhere else. There are such examples in the world, but they are more than bad. I don't think we should follow them. So, what is predicted by the law member, we are actually meeting the employer, because without the employer there is no stable economy, without a stable economy there is no stable Serbia. Please don't argue about it. It may be an ideological difference between us, but on this point, it's simply an appreciation of common sense. (Stevan Guduric: Replica. I wasn't talking about ideology, I was talking about other things. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15290	You have no right to a replica. If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 29, there are no abstentions against 111, 27 did not vote, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 88th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15291	Article 88. The labour law regulates a matter that doesn't need to be dealt with at all. That's why we came to a situation like this Mr. Nikolic was talking about. It is the right of every MP and every member of parliament to make their views known in accordance with their concept and their programme. However, here from one system of jurisdiction, the Labour Act passes into the Health Insurance Act, the whole of this matter on compensation. Of course, the number of days that go on the employer's burden is defined, so up to 30 days, and that's why we've explained: it's a fee due to temporary prevention, disease, that someone's doing the job. All this needs to be fully regulated by the Health Insurance Act, because the Labour Act does not have that authority under the Constitution either. All this is happening here is contrary to Article 40. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the Labour Act deals with this matter. There's a lot of trouble opening up here. Since you have already defined that up to 30 days goes to the employer's burden, and according to the fact that the Labour Act does not have the authority to regulate this matter, then a question is raised for anyone who interprets and who observes this law - what if this temporary prevention lasts longer than 60 days? This law may only be able to regulate, that is, which is the basis on which a certain percentage is to be calculated. However, when you already took the authority to deal with this matter, in front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I asked that in article 88, "65%" be replaced by the number "80" and I believe that this is a much better solution for those who use sick leave for up to 30 days on the employer's burden, given that we have mostly agreed that only 30 days should go to the employer's expense. The government should be asked why the budget was then increased by six or seven times compared to last year. The question is, how are you going to design the 2002 budget? Those who, God forbid, find themselves in a situation where they have to use sick leave, and they know that taxes are so increased, and the budget, so when citizens in their pockets pay for it, then they demand that they have much better protection and a higher percentage of compensation in that period when they are temporarily prevented from doing business.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15292	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 90, the abstentions were not voted 21, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 88th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15293	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 88 point 1 - the words "in the height of 65%" are replaced by the words "in the height of 75%". The provisions of Article 88(1) provide for a solution under which an employee has the right to make a profit during his absence from work due to temporary prevention for work up to 30 days at a rate of 65% of earnings, if this absence is caused by sickness or injury outside of work, if the law does not provide otherwise. To this solution, he submitted a Samandman and suggested that in this case the salary is paid at 75%, because I believe that the amount of 65% is very low, so before this provision reduces the employer's obligation to pay out of his own resources an employee's salary during his sick leave because he will pay this compensation only up to 30 days of labour prevention, instead of 60 days, as established by the applicable regulations. So this way this member protects the employer you're fighting for; the bill gives authority to the employer, and the worker just has to nod his head and say, yes, I understand, here you go, Mr. Director. When I say that, I mean social, public and state-owned enterprises. I had in mind that employee earnings were insufficient to provide material and social security and a healthy worker, because the average earnings in the Republic were 6,400 dinars. If the worker gets sick, when he goes to the doctor he has to pay for the participation you introduced when you came to power in March of the month. A simple review is 20 dinars, the lab report is 200 dinars, the ultra sound should also be paid, and if, God forbid, it should go to a magnetic resonance review on the magnetic resonance is over 10,000 dinars. So he needs to work three months to pay for the checkup, if he's a sick guy. We of the SS think that this member of the employer still has powers, and you of DOS should not worry, because Mr Jovanovic said that there will be someone smarter in power, and I say that we are smarter, because in our parliamentary group there are, of the 14 MPs, 8 employers. We know this law is very harmful to workers. We will vote against this law, but so don't worry about the part where the Republic will pay from the budget, because we will be the new government, so we will easily give it to the workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15294	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 88, there were no abstentions, there was no 26 vote, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 89, the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals have submitted an amendment to Article 89. The bill of law is considered rather vague and we tried to correct it as far as possible. I will read, for the sake of the public, those who do not know and follow the work of the Assembly in particular under this law: "Employees have the right to make a profit of 45% of the earnings they would make to work during the termination of work that took place without the guilt of an employee, the longest 45 working days in the calendar year". However, it is not said here that there is an employer's fault. He can do it without the employer's guilt, I guess. I think you intended to impose an obligation for the employee to receive a certain fee if there was a delay in the process of production due to force majeure. For example, a roof falls, crashes into a factory and can't work for more than 45 days, or an elemental accident, so you stop the production process in agriculture or something like that. However, it is the employer's obligation to ensure, above all, the continuity of work, and otherwise, employees cannot bear responsibility, they cannot, so they must share that responsibility. Then why would that go to the expense of the employer? That's why we think this is 45% very low and it should be at least 60% or 80%, as we suggested. In addition, it remains unclear what happens to the worker after these 45 working days. Does he lose any compensation, and it seems to me he stays, and if he stays, then we violate Article 36. A constitution that guarantees profit. How's he gonna get back if in 45 days, for example, he doesn't restore the process of production? What if these foreign investors that you are announcing come; yet none has come yet, but come. When he applied to the tender, he failed to submit that development programme, so he did not promise to establish a production process. It deliberately does not establish the process of production and about 45 days the worker receives that 45%, as you predicted. What about the worker? It remains unclear. You're completely unspeakable by this member, so he's practically getting too high. The explanation you gave under the Law, why this member exists, only speaks of the percentage that you have defined, but does not speak of the fate of the workers. Regardless, we were just asking that percentage instead of 45% to be 85%.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15296	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15297	In normal conditions, in countries where normal development is possible, normal functioning may not be necessary for this member. It's possible. However, the country was faced with rigorous economic sanctions and blockades. Under these conditions, she had to, in accordance with Article 69 of the so far-called Labour Relations Act, make it possible for employees to make a profit all the time until they work without their guilt. This country is not under sanctions, it's not blocked. The bill promoter will drastically narrow down the rights of employees to a new member of 89, and says the employee has the right for the longest 45 days of the calendar year to receive a salary because he lost his job, without his own guilt, but that it will be 45% of the earnings he would have made if he had worked. And what happens if by your unreasonable policy, and you've been leading her lately, you bring new economic sanctions and blockades? What about hundreds of thousands of people who don't work now without their guilt? If the law comes into force for the New Year, will you, as a card before Christmas or before the Serbian New Year, direct them to stop making profits for them, or will you tell them that they can only receive 45 days and receive only 45%. Then what happens after the Republic Day of Meeting? He'll lose no charge. So far, this has been regulated by collective agreements, and collective agreements are no longer binding and are in accordance with the law. We must be answered by the minister what happens at the end of February with all those who are not guilty of losing their job, whose factories still exist, whose factories have not received a new employer, capital, production program, craft? What will happen to employees of social enterprises, especially giants, 45 days after the entry into force of this law, with those who are -- I don't know what it was called in which company but in any case they don't work, but not their own guilt. Simply, in the manufacturing process for them in the factories where they work, there's no work. Is it going to cause new tensions, new social unrest, and whether this government is going to start to work or just mimic its predecessors, run like a fireman, and just put out the flames, and what's going down there and what's going on, that doesn't even think about it, and that it doesn't intersect in the root.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15298	Mr. Minister of Labour and Employment came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15299	Listening to Mr. Nikolic, a man simply wonders whether he should cry or laugh. In this country, precisely because of this provision that Mr Nikolic mentioned, there are over 500,000 workers who are on the so-called home waiting, or who work one week, and the next week are resting. It's mostly people who have a lot of problems with their existence. That waiting was made up precisely for these people to have a threatened existence, and for those who once ruled this country to have cheap labour, the slave they're now accusing us of, because many say this labour law is a slaver's law. These people were kicked out of their factories, thrown out into the street, where they did everything and everything and enriched some who had current power. Normally, the current government of the Republic of Serbia solves these problems very successfully. I will mention exactly what is now being done to solve the problem of extra employees, that is, those people who are on the so-called home waiting. I will mention a very successful problem in the flag in Kragujevac. Right now, he's getting rid of himself and taking care of the bank workers who are out of a job. The problem of Pančeva Azotare is being solved, the problem of extra workers is being tackled, production is being launched. It's the Lola problem that's being solved. It enters the FAP from Priboj; the entire Belgrade metal complex is coming. A large sum of money is foreseen in the new budget to address these problems. Therefore, all this talk about the fate of these workers is only designed to cause one pity, but I think workers are aware that this government is very responsible and that these issues will be addressed very responsibly. When it comes to a member who is contentious here, or who is subject to the amendment, we must agree the Law so that there is no such thing as waiting, but this transitional period has extorted these 45 days. If someone doesn't provide a job for that worker in 45 days, then it's safe to lose that job. But in this period, I think it's 45 days that it's quite a solid time to start production and that these social programs start to apply and start to get rid of these surplus employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15300	Mr. Nikolic, I don't think there's a basis for replication right now. He did, Mr. Nikolic, but he didn't insult him. He just answered your question, you called him to give an answer. You'll agree with me. I listened very carefully. My discretionary authority is to... All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15301	But how do you feel he didn't misread me, when a man didn't interpret me at all? He was in a dilemma whether he was crying or laughing. I have the right to a replica, Mrs. Micic, according to all the laws of this world. Only if you insist on being a Martian in a month, two, five, a year... We are already packing your request for resolution, Mrs. Micic. It contains yesterday's severe violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which will include today's breach of the Rules of Procedure unless you give me the right to replication. I still think you're reasonable. I read in the paper that you've never taken politics seriously. I'm here to help you in that area.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15302	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, please advertise a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15303	I can help you with the Rules of Procedure, I know him very well. I taught him, it's not much of a science. Do I have the right to a replica, Mrs. Micic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15304	Mr. Nikolic, I don't think you have the right to a replica. I don't think you're offended by anything and you're not even misread; I gave you at the beginning of the session when I had a basis for giving you, since you were misread. This time you didn't, the minister just gave you the answer - you asked him to show up and give you an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15305	I rely on the intelligence of your...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15306	We won't argue, Mr. Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15307	... The ancestors who moved from Herzegovina. The minister spoke very badly of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15308	Not at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15309	Yes, Mrs. Micic, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15310	Mr. Nikolic, we can't compromise, you and I. I'm just saying here, I can put it on, just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure and I'll give you an explanation if he's hurt and we'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15311	Why - which member of the Rules of Procedure? No, I just took it as an opportunity to go out for a pay phone, which I don't care about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15312	If no one is answering for a word under this amendment, I would like to put the amendments tabled by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic on Article 89. For 43, against 100, there are no abstentions, 16 did not vote, a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, submitted to the 90th Amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, don't run away, wait a little longer, it's not so bad what you're about to hear, but we've been telling you about it. I'd like to point out a few of the lies you've made, but the minister is running away, the debate seems to be of little interest to him. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 90. In line with what I had already done in the previous part of the law, I am similarly trying to force the Government of the Republic of Serbia to respect general acts, to respect collective agreements, to respect workers, to respect trade unions. That's not what we in the SRS do for demagogue reasons. You've seen what our objections to the Privatization Act, what our objections to the Labour Act seem different from someone else's remarks. We work because we leave complete freedom, complete arbitration in the behaviour of the employer without any restrictions, without any possibility of workers deciding what their destiny is, what they will have to do and do. I assumed that in Article 90, point 1 behind the word "general act" in the second row, the word "or" was replaced by "i". In Article 90(2), the word "or" is also replaced by "i". So - the employee has the right to make a profit in the amount established by the general act and contract of work, not - by general act or contract of work. This, in any case, will always be a work contract, as we have seen in the reasoning of the government of the Republic of Serbia, so it will form an employer itself. They won't answer to anyone, no consultations, no deals, no conversations, no compromises with workers and unions. It is something that the government of the Republic of Serbia obviously does not want to accept at this time. It seems to me that this is the most important requirement in the world, and we don't know, it's some kind of orvellic, imaginary world, we don't know exactly who's looking for it, or why it's looking for it, or who needs it, or what it takes. We can pretty much guess that it takes some people to come here as employers, how easy it is to fire workers without having any responsibility, not having any consequences for their behavior. We can't know exactly who's responsible for all this, why it all seems. It would be good for the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Milovanovic to explain such things to us. I call on you, therefore, and it seems to me that this is the last opportunity in a set of these amendments, to accept a more significant role in collective agreements, not that they exist only formally, on paper, and that they essentially do not exist in our legal order, in ours, from tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but positively, legislation. So I urge you to accept this amendment, and I am confident and confident that the law in that case would be incomparably better than it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15314	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 33, against 91, there are no abstentions, 29 did not vote, a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 90th Amendment were submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15315	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 90. The draft law refers to the salary paid by the worker during the termination of work by the order of the competent national authority or by the competent authority of the employer. I have made the same amendment as my colleague, only a little different from Mr. Vukic, in that part, that instead of the general act and the contract of employment, the word is "collective contract". This is how I wanted, as an SPS MP, to once again potentiate the role of collective agreement. I believe that in this chapter, which treats profit compensation, resolving these issues on the basis of a working relationship should be regulated in collective bargaining. It is common for the legislator to give an explanation for the adoption of a certain set of amendments under chapters, including in the light of these amendments, which we have tabled as MPs, mostly, of the opposition, to the solution that collective bargaining is not available in the countries in transition and in the countries of the European Community. I would take the opportunity to read you a text now on the Charter of Social Rights of Workers in the European Union. So, at the European Union's summit, the Charter of Social Rights of Workers of the European Union, where, among other things, to protect workers, states: "It is right for workers to join together and collectively negotiate, including collective agreements at the level of the entire European Union." It's the only thing the UK hasn't adopted, and all the other countries of the European Union have adopted. For this reason, do not call for transition, transparency and the European Community when the European Community adopted the Charter of Social Rights of Workers in the European Union. Since the minister did not want to answer the question three times, and I did not ask myself for myself, but because of these workers, I can conclude that the addition to the salary - a warm meal, a regression, a field supplement, and even past work - is no longer a mandatory category that has been in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act. From now on, it is up to the employer to resolve this issue through the labour rules and the work contract, which is not a commitment, but simply a college. In order for this law and this amendment to be adopted, or not adopted, pursuant to Article 95. I'm asking the President of the Assembly to determine the quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15316	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Miomir Ilic asked us to establish the quorum. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I give notice to MP Miomir Ilic, on the basis of Article 103, because he demanded quorum before his amendment was voted, Azim came out of the hall. Is anyone else answering for a word by the amendment submitted by MP Miomir Ilic? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For four, against 106, the abstentioned were not voted 19, a total of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15317	The sad gatherings of the decomposed DOS, we expect at the next session of amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure, by predicting that MPs are being brought into the O.R. because obviously you cannot work without opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15318	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please return to your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15319	I can't go back, I haven't started yet, but here I go. We have submitted to Article 91 an amendment, which is a principled nature, from Article 1 and beyond, wherever you foresee the alternative of collective contract and contract of work. We insist on the obligation of a collective contract. According to us, it is unacceptable to have a collective contract – we believe that this solution is reasonable and better defined. In Article 91(1), you provide that an employee has the right to compensation for the cost of arrival and departure from work and during the official trip to the country, as determined by a general act or contract of employment. It is clear that the labour contract cannot, as an individual act, contain fewer rights than is provided for in the general act, and we know that the general acts, collective agreements, special contracts or labour rules are by way of the employer's rules of work, and the contract of employment is between the employer and the worker. Since you didn't foresee the obligation of a general collective agreement anywhere, we insist that the word "or" be replaced by "i", which is another attempt to advocate that the collective contract be binding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15320	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 27, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic to Article 92. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15321	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, since article 92 regulates the right to severance upon retirement, I would like to read the text of the proposed amendment. In Article 92, the new position 1 is added, which reads: "Employees have the right to leave for retirement in the height of a collective contract". In the former 1st position, which becomes the 2nd term "retribution on retirement" is deleted. In the present position of 2 that becomes the 3rd word "item 1." are replaced by the words "Station 2.". Position 3 so far becomes attitude 4." To simplify this a little bit and explain one thing. This article provides that the employer may pay the worker on his retirement: severance, solidarity, jubilee reward, etc. What does that mean? That means he can if he wants to, but he can mean he doesn't have to. Therefore, I believe that the retirement allowance should not be equated with the other income provided for in this article, but that the employer must pay the severance payment. Namely, the right to severance in particular in the present conditions is, unnecessarily, to retain as a right which the employer must pay to an employee when he retires, because it mainly serves him to ensure the minimum existence of pension rights, i.e. until the start of the pension payment, which is known to be several months late. I would add that to this -- I know the minister will say there is no money in the budget, but this does not require or demand money from the budget, because it is the employer's business to provide it, so I think there is room for this amendment to be accepted. We know it's not rare, unfortunately, the occurrence and the case that a man died, and he just got a pension solution and hasn't received his first pension yet. So this help should be mandatory, in these situations it is necessary for a man, because believe that it serves him for three or four months until he gets his first pension. Therefore, to underline this is the position of the parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party, which is demanding that this amendment be adopted, since it does not seek funding from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15322	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 30, against 107, four abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 92. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15323	The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 92(1) and Article 2(2), which becomes item 3. Namely, the Proposer deletes the obligation to pay individual fees paid by the employer to the employees. He says: "The employer can pay the employee a severance payment on retirement, solidarity, jubilee reward and assistance in the event of death of an employee or member of his family's rope, at the height of a general act or contract of employment. "So, if we start at the root of this interpretation by Article 92, the employer doesn't have to negotiate these charges at all. It doesn't have to be in the general act or in the contract of work to predict the payment of these awards. If these rewards are agreed on under the contract of work and by the general act, the employer has no obligation to pay them, because there is no imperative payment here, but is said to be able to pay the employee, and we do not think that it is a communist way of paying the severance payment. That's what you do all over the world. The employer whose factory progressed, whose personal wealth was increased thanks to the work of the factory, also increased because of the work of the retired employee. Our amendment stipulates that this should be mandatory, that the severance is mandatory on retirement or termination of labour by law because of the loss of work capacity, at the level of the triple amount of earnings an employee would make for the month preceding the month in which the severance payment is made. We specifically set out as mandatory assistance to the family in the event of the death of an employee or member of a rope family, at the cost of funeral services. We've left the employer at will to pay for the solidarity aid and the jubilee prize, and I think that so separated these payments can also be accepted by the promoter. Everyone appreciates a good worker. In two ways, it gives him credit: regular payouts and restitutions when he stops working in the company; and only in two cases -- when he retires or loses his job, so he can't work there anymore. No one will rebuke you for this and will not impose any communist image on you, because this is manners and practice; and this is a moral obligation, and it has been introduced into the laws of the Western countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15324	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 107, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic to Article 92. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15325	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, is said by the Government's proposal in Article 92 that the employer may, means he does not have to pay the employee's aid in the event of the death of an employee or member of his family, at the height of a general act or contract of employment. Only spouses and children of employed workers are considered under the family rope, within the meaning of that provision. The amendment proposes that a supplement be made, that the employer may pay for assistance to employees in the event of death, not only the spouse and child employed, but also in the event of death of other family members living in the joint family household and if they are maintained by the employee. The members of this family, within the meaning of this member, should include: parents, brothers and sisters, adoptors and other persons, but who really live in a joint household and who support employees. So, these members who don't have their own income. Take, for example, the common case that old parents live together with employees, that they have no pensions or other incomes. In such cases, is it not logical to leave the possibility that an employer can help an employee in the event of the death of his parents? When it's said in the government's proposal that it can, it means it's not binding. It is a pity that previous amendments by MPs Selakovic and Nikolic have not been accepted to make it binding. But if it's a recommendation, if it's declarative, at least leave in this article a recommendation -- which means... The amendment should be accepted - that the employer pays for the assistance in the event of death of other family members living in the common household and supported by employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15326	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15327	Now, when it is clear that you have erased the employer's obligation to pay the severance fee, I think it should be said at least once again, that it is clear to the citizens of Serbia that this time, by not accepting our amendment, and the day this law comes into force, the payment of the severance allowance ends, any assistance from the employer in the cases in which it has been paid since any type of industrial production exists in this country. It's so pointless for a member of 92 because there's no obligation of an employer; so I'm asking you -- let's just say, why didn't you write that for a state holiday on November 29th, the employer can give the employee a television in color; or that he can buy him a nice book; or that he can bring flowers for 8th of March. You're gonna do it, you're not clear about it. What does that mean to a serious government to write a member of a law saying: "Employer can." Well, the employer will figure it out on his own. The law needs to write him what he has to, and the employer decides what he can do. An employer can come to work on a city bus. Why didn't you write it here? How pointless is a member of the Law in which you tell your employer that he can. Well, is the National Assembly there to regulate relationships that can be or relationships that must be? Does the Law serve to regulate something that can be? What is the aim of the adoption of Article 92? The law unless there's a obligation - can an employer and an employee arrange to give him some compensation?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15328	There's a word Mr. Tom Bushettic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that this member of the employer has no longer any obligation to pay for severances, solidarity aids, jubilee benefits and assistance in the event of the death of a member of the immediate family. I have an individual collective agreement ahead of me, where it clearly indicates how much these solutions, related to collective agreements, are better and go more in favour of workers and employees than this law. For example, in individual collective agreements it is said that the organisation, institution or public service is obliged to provide the employee with: a three-income or three-income severance; a solidarity aid for cases of longer or more serious illnesses of an employee or of a family member; health rehabilitation of an employee; the occurrence of severe disability; the mitigation of the resulting elemental accidents, in the amount of two salaries. When it comes to members of a wider family, such as parents, brothers, and sisters, we have one salary for compensation. When we talk about jubilee prizes and they were required, so in 10 years' work half salary or 50%, in 20 years' work 70%, for 30 years' work 100 percent. So all these solutions are much better and more favourable than what is now offered by law. It is clear from the fact that an employer can pay an employee a severance fee, a solidarity aid, a jubilee reward, there will be nothing. I think this amendment, submitted by MP Radojko Petric, speaks of extending the right not only to the narrow family, but also to the wider, such as parents, brothers and sisters. Here, the minister is about to say something about this member, so he'll say - the state is in a difficult situation, you have to understand that we can't meet all the requirements. But the citizens expected much from the new government, there were great promises, and billions, just to drop power... (President: Mr. Bushettic, theme. )......................................................................................................... The billions to hand over Milosevic, but none of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15330	The word has Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15331	In the current law, the issue of jubilee awards has been resolved. But let's be honest and say, who in the last 10 years has won jubilee awards? Nobody. Now, as for the provisions of the collective agreement, I must remind you again of Article 178, which is very clear, very precise and says: "The provisions of the collective agreement, which is in force, on the day of the entry into force of this law, which are not contrary to this law, remain in force until the conclusion of a collective agreement in accordance with this law." This means, since issues of jubilee rewards, severances, aids, are regulated by a collective agreement, it will remain in force. Normally, it all depends on whether these unions are strong enough to sign those collective agreements. As new collective agreements are being signed right now, there is great activity between the Union of Serbian Unions and the Chamber of Commerce. I suppose they'll leave a provision that's under contract, normally if they take care of their workers, and it will apply when the law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15332	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 108, the abstentions were missing, did not vote 10, a total of 156 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 95th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have reached the seventh chapter of the Labour Act and the area of the ban on competition, to Article 95. I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS parliamentary group to replace the third word "or" in article 95 with the letter "i". So far, we have repeatedly explained why we are looking for it, and we are really sharp and, as a vast majority of employees in Serbia, we are in principle pushing for a collective contract to be a commitment. We are opposed to the campusivity of the collective agreement and now, until the end of the debate on the Law in particular, we will have several more amendments, where we will ask that the word "or" be replaced by the ally "and" so that the collective agreement, as a general act, together with the labour contract, is also entered as a mandatory member of the Law. However, with or without MP Novakovic, through manipulation of identification cards and suspicious quorum....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15334	Miss Jovanovic, return to your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15335	I am just coming back, carefully, Madam Chairman, listen, Article 95(1) says: "The labour contract can determine jobs that employees cannot do on their own behalf and for their own account, as well as on behalf of another legal or natural person, without the consent of an employer who is in a working relationship (hereinafter: "no competition"). "So, since it is obvious that you will adopt such a law, and you will not accept the amendment, in accordance with the position of the 1st member, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I demand and expect that Mr. Minister will cease his post in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to military lifeant, Mr. Covic, owner of the FMP; Mr. Novakovic, Minister of Energy, who provided and provides all the jobs in Serbia for "Blencord"; Mr. Vlahovic... (President: Mrs Jovanovic, I warn you to return to the topic - Amendment to Article 95) ... who is the CEO of the company "Dilloyt and Show"; and Mr. Mihajlovic, Minister of the Interior, who uses money from the Development Fund for his company "Lutra".
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15336	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 108, the abstentioned were not voted 10, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 95, it is again a general act and a collective contract. Why are we in the SPS insisting that it be a collective contract? I'll read you just a few sentences from the Charter of Social Rights of Workers, adopted at the European Union summit on 8 and 9 December as early as 1989, meaning it's been valid since then. (Someone said that those who prescribed this law entered the wrong library, so they prescribed something that is history, not present. ) So, even then, the Charter of Social Rights of Workers was adopted, which obliges Member States to provide in their legislation the following basic rights of workers; freedom of movement in all European Union countries and free competition for each job (here in our law does not say so, since no one has to advertise anything, and when it does not advertise, then it is a sign that you should compete); any work must be paid fairly; workers must have the right to free services of the labour market; workers must achieve improvement of working and living conditions of workers; working time; working time is a day, weekly vacations etc., (and here in this proposal I see that this is not all so brightly resolved); workers must have social protection and compensation for the time of unemployment; it is the right of workers to join, collectively negotiate, including a collective contract at the level of the whole of the European Union; it does not have a right to do so well in the law of society; So it's very clear why the SPS insists on a collective contract and it's very clear why you won't. Here comes these coalition partners of yours, so you'll handle it better with them. (DSS emissaries entering the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15338	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? If you don't, uh, come in, Mr. Ivkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr. Stevan Guduric, for who knows which time, tried to change the word "general act" to replace the words "collective contract". Well, considering that, we're referring to a document from 1990. (Speaks in English) This is the Charter of the European Union on the Social Rights of Workers, and that Charter defines two key rights that I am constantly trying to point out here. This European Union Charter on Social Rights of Workers has been signed by all members of the European Union, except for the UK, which is always trying to be special. Apparently, Yugoslavia is trying to play the island like Great Britain. This is about the following: We here from the Minister of Labour heard that in Article 178. The law remains in force all collective agreements that are now signed. However, none of us in this room forgets Article 105, which gives the employer the right to amend the labour contract according to his or her intention and according to the applicable Labour Act, if that is the law. According to this Labour Act, according to amendments that have not been adopted, according to the current variant, a collective contract has been relativated and writes: "Work or collective contract rules". Therefore, Article 178, which the Labour Minister calls upon when he explains that all current collective agreements will be in force, is fully deplaced, because Article 105 provides that the employer has the absolute right to change the labour contract and to offer it in his variant, according to the applicable law, and the applicable law, if that is the case, fully relativated the collective contract and put him in a position of equality with the labour rule, i.e. arbitraryness, or the right of the employer to completely dissuade everything on his own and to do as he pleases. I remind you, the Charter of Social Rights of European Union Workers was discussed from 8 to 9 May 1989. It was adopted and ratified by all members of the European Union, except the UK. It absolutely gives workers the right to association, the right to a collective contract and obliges employers and workers to work through collective agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15340	Thank you. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15341	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when a man wakes up late, then it may be logical that in the first minutes of the working day, as of the afternoon, he begins with the wrong interpretation. Mr. Ivkovic, I will ask you to read precisely that Convention of the International Labour Organisation, or those of the European Union under which the employer undertakes to sign a collective contract. And to make it easier for you, since I don't think you did it out of bad intentions, I'll read you 128. The International Labour Organisation Convention, which refers to the application of the principle of the right to organise collective negotiations. Article 4 of that Convention literally states: "Responsible measures, according to national conditions, should be taken if it is necessary to encourage and improve the development and wider use of procedures for voluntary negotiations through collective agreements between employers and organisations on the one hand and workers' organisations on the other hand, in order to determine working conditions. "Mr. Ivkovic, once again: "good enough bargaining through collective agreements", and I am now giving you a chance to replicate, please read where this collective agreement is required in the European Union and on the basis of which this Convention of the International Labour Organisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15342	Here, the right to the replica has Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15343	I can't help but remind myself of the end of yesterday's session when Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic appeared as the president of the parliamentary group, which can be seen in the stenogram, as the chairman did not stress the right to the replica of Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, but only said Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group. I didn't get the right to a replica, even though I absolutely had it. Since Mr Cedomir Jovanovic has now given me the right to reply, I hope that the President-in-Office does not mind, since this communication obviously works without any problems. So, the Charter of Social Rights of European Union Workers, signed by all members of the European Union, gives rights and freedoms of collective association, and says in Article 12 - employers and organisations on the one hand, and workers' organisations, on the other hand, have the right to negotiate and conclude a collective agreement, under the conditions laid down in national legislation. Therefore, if national legislation leaves the importance of collective agreements in that terminology and in the status that is now in force, then national legislation, according to the European Union, has an obligation to sign the negotiations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15344	The word has the Minister of Labour and Employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15345	I am pleased that Mr Ivkovic confirmed that the Law is well written and that it is in line with European recommendations and with the International Labour Organisation. And this law also says very clearly that they have the right to conclude a collective agreement, even more suggests collective bargaining than other European laws. I'll remind you of article 138. A law saying: "Collective contract concludes the employer. Participants in the conclusion of collective agreements are required to negotiate. If no agreement on the conclusion of a collective agreement is reached in the course of the negotiations under Article 2(2), participants shall be required to educate arbitration in order to resolve the issues in question. The arbitration referred to in Article 3(3) shall be educated no later than 30 days from the date of the start of negotiations on the conclusion of a collective agreement. The composition, mode of operation and the fact of the arbitration decision referred to in Article 3 shall be agreed upon by the participants in the conclusion of the collective agreement. "Therefore, it is very clear that the whole law is set in the direction of a collective agreement and it is said very clearly, in Article 178, that collective agreements remain in force. That's right. As for Article 105, it is not said anywhere that collective agreements are annulled in this article 105, but that an amended labour contract can be offered very clearly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15346	Here's a word from Mr. Dejan Mihajlov, representative of the DSS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15347	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group at 12.45 handed over two proposals for an emergency procedure. The first is to make a decision by this assembly in the light of a recommendation to the government of the Republic of Serbia to propose to the president of the state to call emergency parliamentary elections, and the second is to adopt an emergency procedure law on co-operation with the International Hague war crimes tribunal. This is in line with our country's obligations to the international community, which primarily refers to the commitment we have made to co-operate with international institutions and our return, above all, to the United Nations and other international institutions. A proposal for a federal law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal has been submitted. We have made a proposal that is compatible with the federal law proposal, where a certain part of jurisdiction would be transferred to a republican level. These are our obligations for all international agreements and for what our participation in the international community means. As we are aware that the chairman has received a proposal from these documents asking them to be decided by an urgent procedure, the MPs and the public should be informed of the reception of these submissions and should be treated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15348	The chairman is the first to explain himself. So, according to article 158. The Rules of Procedure can only be passed by means of a law governing issues and relations resulting from circumstances which could not be foreseen, and the adoption of an emergency law could result in adverse effects on the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations. In writing, the legislator is obliged to state in the written explanation of the draft law the adverse consequences that would arise as a result of the non-immediation of this law by emergency procedure. As far as the first act is concerned, you submitted a recommendation. So it's not about the law. As for the second act, which is the draft law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, it meets that requirement, it means it is the law. But it is the chairman's obligation, as you yourself said, to deliver the act to the MPs, to arrange for the agenda. It doesn't say anything about having to. This is Article 159 of Article 5. Rules of Procedure: "The President of the National Assembly is required to deliver the bill, which is proposed for urgent proceedings to MPs and government, if it is not a proposing, immediately upon receipt. "Dejan Mihailov, from the place: I ask that the assembly be declared. If you're not satisfied with the answer, I don't know. I put to the vote Mr. Dejan Michael's proposal that the Rules of Procedure have been injured and I ask the MPs to plead. For 79, against 128, the abstentions, were not voted by 11, a total of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed. Are any of the other MPs reporting for the amendment submitted by MP Stevan Z. Guduric? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 57, against 120, three abstentions, were not voted 43, a total of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment shall give up the amendment. I find that MP Stevan G. Guduric withdraws the amendment he submitted to Article 97. The amendment was submitted by MP Stevan G. Guduric to Article 98. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go. STEVANGUDURIĆ: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not much when from three amendments to two comes out. We're here, when it comes to the general act and the collective contract, we've already said so much. I'll look back on just one segment. This is where the minister and one fellow MP almost convinced us last week that a union would come and turn our ears here in the Assembly that we are not honest and valid and that we do not support this scrawny law. Then it turned out, it was last Wednesday, that it was a terrible big rally of some union called ASNS or something, I don't know. The minister as a minister couldn't participate, when his colleague entered the O.R., then there was nothing left but security, because when two of them came out of that union, then there was nothing left. So don't scare us anymore with some unions that aren't. Anyone can build a union and hit some seal on it. It's just, in order for something to be a union, we need to have some membership, which would be for the respect, in this case, as far as we've seen from the Parliament window, there's been a lot more buses than those people from the union and strikers. It's for the honor of whoever built that union. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 53, against 126 abstentions, there were no 25 votes, a total of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MPs Vera Markovic, Branko Pavlovic, Vlatko Sekulović and Miroslav Christodulo. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15350	Since this legal proposal was found in the congregation procedure, i.e. Since the amendments have been formulated, federal legislation has made a solution to the working age of women up to 58 years. The purpose of this amendment was to allow women to gain a job internship by force of law. Or that they work until they're 60 years old, unless their health or living conditions allow them to work until they're 65 years old. However, in order to avoid discrimination against women with this amendment on a proposed member of the law, we have suggested that women can work for up to 60 or 65 years, according to their decision. That the law gives them the opportunity to work for up to 60 years, and if they can work up to 65, they will not be discriminated against and can work until the full amount of training is obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15351	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 71, against 87, abstentions 6, there was no 39 vote, a total of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 99th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15352	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, in Article 99 of this law, has suggested that the working relationship cease "when an employee turns 65 years of life and at least 15 years of insurance training, if the employer and employees do not agree differently". With my amendment, I suggested that part of the provision be deleted, which says that the employer and employees can agree that employees can remain in a working relationship when they are 65 years old. I find it inappropriate to leave an opportunity for someone to remain in a working relationship, although they have 70 and over years of life, and on the other hand we have young and educated workers and experts of all profiles, who have been waiting for years on the labour market. It should also be borne in mind that individuals will use their position and influence, in the first place I mean in social enterprises and institutions, unjustly extend retirement, regardless of what will be harmful to the company, or another institution, and harmful to the country in general. If someone is a top expert and needs a firm and has more than 65 years of life, he can be hired to help, for which it is necessary to provide him with an adequate reward or to be paid otherwise, but not to be in a working relationship. It is illogical to suggest that a worker can remain in a working relationship when he has over 65 years of life and 40 years of employment. Well, let's consider KV workers and middle-aged workers, who start working relationships mostly when they're 18 or 19 years old. They, when they're 65 years old, will already have 46 or 47 years of employment. Do we leave the possibility of remaining in a working relationship when they are 50 years old and over? Not to mention those workers who get into a working relationship with 15 years of life. I hope that all these MPs will understand the essence of this amendment and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15353	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There's a word from the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in our 99th term, we have a disputed second point, at which the employment relationship ends when the employee turns 65 and at least 15 years of insurance. It's not decidently written here when a worker, or an employee, can get a pension right. Now the promoter will tell us that it will be regulated by some other law. If it's the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, we already have a proposal to cut that deadline or that limit a little to 63 years, but 63 years is a much more unfavourable solution than it is now - 60 years of life. We'll have a situation where someone who started working at age 18 has to work until the age of 63, and in the meantime has more than 40 years of work, which is not good. Here we have various examples, which I was talking about in principle -- is the pilot supposed to be piloting until the 63rd year of life, are drivers in international traffic supposed to drive up to those years? Or should miners, builders, bakers work until the 63rd year of their lives? When it comes to our amendment, submitted through MP Radojko Petric, he believes, and we all believe that employers and employees cannot negotiate after 65 years of life, related to extended work. I think that provision is in order. Perhaps this applies to some teachers, who are missing and over-needed, but that limit should be established and it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15355	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15356	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and this member of the bill and amendment are partly good. But this member remains inconclusive, even if the amendment of the MP is passed. What's this all about - the bill states that the employment relationship should be terminated in case the employee turns 65 and at least 15 years of insurance training, unless the employer and the employee agree differently. The government's explanation for this amendment in one part is absolutely correct - why limit the employer's ability to have an employment contract with an employee, even though he is 70 years old? He determines whether the employee works effectively, whether he is commercially capable, whether he contributes to his company, and there we should not have any dilemmas. Everyone has the right to work when they're 65 years old. But what about government employees? That right in the state authorities must be restricted. There is no basis for employees in the administration, in education, in health, in the judiciary, in education, in the military and in the police, to work for over 65 years. That's where we can't leave the employer's ability to negotiate with the employee so he stays longer to work. So I would separate strictly employers and the state as employers. Employers who decide on their capital, on their assets, on their income, on the fate of their firm, shall agree with the employee to do as much as the employer and the employee responds. The state has no right to extend the contract to work with an employee older than 65. There must be competition, there must be young people coming and there must be the most able to be hired. That's why it's hard for me to accept this bill when there's no law enforcement competition in the state administration. That's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15357	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15358	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we could produce some confusion if we could create a condition that this labour law actually fully regulates labour legislation. Then the previous objection would be justified, but there are several more system laws, which, for example, regulate labour legislation in the field of state administration and state authorities. There, the provisions of this law do not have to apply, because we can apply different provisions of the law once we redefine the law on employees in the authorities of the state administration. As far as this member of the new law is concerned, it's actually about preventing discrimination, which can be sexy, can be religious, can be national and can be aged. So the trends in developed societies are exactly like that, if there is a mutual interest, it has to be opened up to a person over 65 years of age, if there is a mutual interest, to extend the working relationship, right through the way it's shown here. As for the opening of jobs for young people, I agree that this is very important and that this kind of policy must be conducted very carefully, but I don't think this is a threat, because it is very rare to apply this provision of the law. I think it's better by law to regulate those extreme situations in which this law can be applied than to leave it legally unregulated. There is a certain situation where people over 65 years of age, because of their expertise, have to stay at work, and then, in some pseudo-law forms, they actually carry out their working relationship. I think it's more correct and thus fully denying any form of discrimination, especially that of discrimination that follows someone's age; and this is in line with the International Labour Organization, as well as the conventions that it has established, which we have ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15359	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 55, against 116, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Tomic submitted to the 100th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15360	Gentlemen People's MPs, my fellow MPs -- who throughout the afternoon are trying to give their reasons to some illogicalness in the bill and the need for these amendments, in agreement with what has been agreed with the trade unions to do certain adjustments -- to do a vain job that I will now try to make in an effort to point out some facts that will not be heard of this speaker. It's about a member of the 100th where it's about how he ends his employment. It's about changing point 1), which is about losing your ability to work. In the reasons for not accepting this amendment, it has been said that a legislative solution has been proposed in accordance with the rules on pension and disability insurance which determines the loss of working ability. It is true that under the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, the loss of work ability is determined and therefore a solution is made to the employed worker. This solution determines that there has been a permanent impairment of work ability, that there has been a partial impairment of work ability and that the worker is no longer able to perform the work at the workplace. The Labour Act says - if it has been found that the employee has suffered loss of working ability - the day of delivery of a strong solution to determine the loss of working ability ceases his employment relationship. There is no partial, there is no permanent, but in any case the loss of the job ability of the employee ceases the employment relationship. This does not appear in any European law, does not appear in any other legislation. The employer can send the employee home in any case. The lay accession in arguments, on the Committee on Labour and Combat Affairs and the way our amendments are rejected, leads us to the situation that the employer is an absolute god and in this situation, when he can easily express the measure of termination of employment. And when I complete this with Article 103, which we'll talk about later, where he says if he doesn't have the necessary knowledge, how he's been doing, say, twenty-six years, and after all these hard-earned salaries and paid contributions, someone says he doesn't have the necessary knowledge, while he doesn't have the ability to work here, we're in a position that employees absolutely can't have any defense. Of course, they can lead a work dispute. This working dispute, on average, lasts from three to five years, and for that time, I ask, what is the family of that worker who lost a partial or permanent job ability, or what happens to those persons, if we don't even have social programs. This is about tactics: we will reject everything proposed by the opposition, as proposed by the Socialist Party MPs or any other party. I don't understand. This is about a word that has its essence and changes the whole point from basics, but obviously we won't hear from each other until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15361	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 114, one abstention, did not vote 16 out of 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 100th Amendment were submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 64, against 110, the abstentions, were not voted 12, of 186. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 100th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15362	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mrs. Micic, president of the Serbian Radical Party Executive Board, Mr. Dragan Todorovic told me that several hours ago on the screen, in a direct television broadcast of the debate on the law in particular, there is no table on how MPs voted in the assembly on the amendment. It just shows the number of those who voted yes, against and those who did not take part in the vote. I am informing you that you would intervene because the SRS parliamentary group wants the entire Serbian public to know that we are voting on individual amendments. We, unlike many others, have never hidden ourselves, have always known what we are for and will always know what we are for. Let me get back to Article 100. The bill, which repeats the situation in Article 65, i.e. the amendment I submitted yesterday, which was accepted by the general majority, with the agreement of Minister Milovanovic. In fact, and here at point 3 of Article 100, it is the situation of termination of employment when, for the purpose of maintaining a prison sentence, an employee has to be absent from work for more than three months; in front of the SRS Group of MPs, it is six months, because yesterday you reminded yourself that you voted that judges who maintain a sentence of up to six months can continue to be judges. We also have a situation of termination of a working relationship defined in point 4: "If it is given a measure of security, an educational or protective measure of more than three months". So that's where I'm asking to extend the deadline to six months, when he has to be away from work. You know, this point 4 can hit some members of the government. Indeed, this can happen, given the way they live; they can come into a situation to use security measures or safeguard measures in one of the institutions for that purpose in our country. Therefore, given all this in mind, as well as that, Mr. Minister, that you generally accept those amendments to the bill concerning yourself, or your direct associates, I also have information that you will accept this amendment to Article 100, so please make it clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15363	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15364	The government accepts the amendment by Miss Natasha Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15365	The minister accepted the amendment, but we're putting it to a vote, since we don't have a report from the board. For 154, against 11, abstention 9, 19, a total of 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment to the 100th National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic to Article 103. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15366	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, in Article 103. The draft law sets out the reasons why an employer can cancel an employment contract, meaning why he can break up a working relationship. These reasons are set at eight points and relate mainly to the following: when employees fail to achieve the results of work, when there is no need for knowledge to carry out jobs, when they violate working discipline, if they abuse sickness, if technological, economic or organisational changes stop the need to do certain work, etc. The government's proposal does not further develop criteria when conditions are met that the employer cancels his employment contract for the reasons set out above, means when he can break up his employment relationship with him. Basically, it's left to the employer that whenever he wants, he can find an excuse and break up the labor contract and fire the worker. With my amendment, I suggested that the employer may cancel the employed employment contract if the justified reasons were met, taking into account those eight points, but that the text "as set out in the general act of the employer be added to the extension of the first position, with the obligation to present that act to the employee before the completion of the labour contract". So the worker, before he closes his work contract, reads the act and knows what's ahead of him. It is necessary to establish, in advance, criteria on the basis of which an employee can cancel a work contract, or break a working relationship, that this depends not only on the employer's goodwill, and independent of the real legitimate reasons. For example, when it comes to breaking up work relations because of the failure to deliver work results, can't it be known in advance that it will be when a worker, two months does not meet the average standard of, say, 80% or so? The essence of my amendment is that these criteria are predetermined and that workers know what awaits them if they do not meet that standard in a certain degree and for a certain period. It may occur that one month's worker has failed the norm, he may not have been in good health even though he was coming to work, so for objectivity, he needs to leave a condition of at least two months to follow his norm, so if for that period he really can't achieve the norm, then he should be fired, or broken the labour contract. It means that it is not possible for an employer, from case to case, to apply different criteria to individual workers. In the second part of Article 103. The government suggests that within three months, the employer cannot hire another person on the same jobs where the employee has been cancelled, meaning he broke up his employment relationship, due to these technological, economic or organisational changes. On this part of the government's proposal, I have submitted an amendment that the employer, in the event of the termination of a working relationship due to these technological, economic and organisational changes, cannot receive another worker on the same jobs before the end of not three months, but 12 months. In the event that the employer still has to receive the worker and before the deadline, that priority is given to a worker who has stopped working because of these organisational changes. If this part of the amendment is not accepted, it is left to allow the employer to always declare the existence of these organisational changes and to cancel the worker's employment contract and to receive another worker after three months. Not to say that in the situation of the dominant existence of social enterprises, there are serious conditions for abuses: to receive family leaders in employment; to accept friends; not to say that this creates serious assumptions for bribery in the employment of workers. I think the argument of the government, where she said she didn't accept this amendment, is really cynical, because she says - she can accept, no one defends. It must be an obligation not to receive another worker. If his job has been cancelled because of organizational changes, not because of his failure to work, he has the advantage that he should be admitted, to be a liability, not a good will of the employer. I think the reasons that are stated are convincing and that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15367	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's no easier than to fire a worker under Article 103. It says here, "The employer can fire a worker unless he has achieved the results of his work." Who assesses the results of the work - employer or boss! Are there any standards? There can be norms. A few days ago, I spoke to a deputy minister who says, for example, a norm is 15 units of a product. But the employer can say -- now the norm is 20 units, and that standard is a worker or employee that can't be met. Or point 2): "If it does not show the necessary knowledge and ability." Whoever decides about it is the employer again. We don't have expert commissions, we don't have any expert bodies to assess it. "If he's in harm's way." Under the current law, breach of labour obligations - article 100 prescribes fines. The fine is referred to in the following cases: so it is 4-5; then Article 101. - We've got about 12 points. So, very clearly defined what infringements of labour obligations are. The employee may also be fired in case "if his behaviour is such that he cannot continue his work with the employer". For example, some ugly behavior. And what kind of behavior is that? When does he look across from the boss? If he abuses illness - and it's an absolutely subjective thing. I think this eighth point is the most subjective - due to technological, economic or organisational changes. These organizational changes can be at any moment, even technologically. So everything is easy and very soon the employer can quit the worker. How was that regulated before? Someone will say, "Well, it's a complex procedure. We're against it." And we know that you're against it. When it's a word, for example. We had a public warning and fines, and we had no working relationship. The public notice knows exactly what infringements of work obligations are: unwarranted delay for at least three days, unwarranted exit from work before the end of working hours. When it comes to fines, we had an unwarranted exit from work before working time, at least four days in three months, coming to work in a drunken state, causing riots or fights; all followed by a fine. For the termination of employment, however, they know exactly what the injuries are, but under the old law or under individual collective agreements, they cannot do so alone by the director or employer, but there is a disciplinary commission, so there is a commission to protect employees' rights. So there really was one complex process for a worker or employee to get fired. Now, this new bill of law, especially in this Article 103, is being fired very quickly and very easily. I think a member of the 103rd is absolutely controversial to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15369	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15370	In a world of developed relations between co-operation and competition between employers and trade unions, such a member of the law could also be accepted. However, in Serbia, in a country of disputed unions above all, predict just as many opportunities for employees to stop working at this time, at a time when employees will stop working for many reasons, I don't think it's humane and that legislation could have been in stages, phase, phased out to bring the situation to the country in this state, which the writer of this law has taken over, seems from American films when the employer tells the man before retirement -- from tomorrow you don't have a job anymore. He turns around and goes, so unless he finds another job, he's out of retirement for a certain period of years. This point 8 is dangerous in Article 103. Of course, they're all on the employer's side and everything is left on his subjective assessment. But point 8 provides for a minimum of two suspicious reasons for the termination of employment: one is technological and the other is organisational. I could say it's the same, because if there's a technological change, it requires organizational change, so it could be even one reason. The easiest way to find a reason to quit is that technological changes have occurred, which have been conditioned by organisational changes; or there have been only organizational changes; and to keep those changes for three months, because that deadline is extremely short and thus the whole group of people can be left out of work, on the street; and the employer loses nothing, makes a new technology, a new organisation, can only return the old one after three months, and there is no longer any obligation to receive those he has fired; for them only has a commitment within three months. This is leverage to the employer. I would really like to finally see this employer in Serbia once, not counting these two types of privates created in these ten years, one single and others who have become private by stealing social firms, and there are those in this room -- who are preparing this bill. Can you get us these employers, at least know who we're dealing with, who we're making this kind of concession and who we're providing for free labour, free factories, legislation tailored to its extent. In this year's time, if one of those employers had come, if he wanted to invest capital and talk to the public -- I want to invest so much and so much, I want to hire so many people, but I don't mind the Labour Law, I don't mind that provision, that and that, I want it done as in my country of origin -- then everyone could have excuses for the vote given for or against this bill. So, in this way, we can convince each other that we have good intentions, and I guess it's certainly, the MPs have good intentions when they're discussing the bill, with the objectives that we're pursuing being well-intentioned. Your goal, the goal of you who reject these amendments and want to vote in favour of the bill as given, is that the employer has all the benefits. The SRS has a shared goal: we would like the employer to have benefits, but not to ruin those who work with the employer. In our view, at least they are an equal partner in the negotiations, although you are clearly not treating them as an equal partner by this bill at all. I repeat what appears to have hurt one of the legislators. This is slaver's law; and slaves at the time of Spartacus, at night they even had the right to take off their chains, even to have dinner, to sleep, but they were in the morning... (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. )......................................................................................................... waiting for chains and slave owners. For a while, they held out, so they raised this slave-owned rebellion, which brought down the old world. Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15371	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 103, which was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. For 52, against 145, with three abstentions, 17 out of 217 did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs submitted the amendment to Article 103. The amendment was agreed by a proposal representative at the Committee's session. Do you want a word? Yeah. Mr. News Đuraskovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15372	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, a amendment was adopted yesterday at the 65th National MP Natasa Jovanovic, and has caused the alignment of Article 103 to this new now-member 65. Therefore, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs is in accordance with Article 145. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, proposed this amendment, that point 6 be replaced by "five" by "15". We suggest that the National Assembly accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15373	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee, I will still put this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 182, one, abstentioned, was not voted 33, a total of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment to Article 103 submitted by the Committee on Combat and Social Affairs. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to establish the quorum for the continuation of the session. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Before we continue the work, one announcement: a group of 40 MPs from the DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - Democratic Party of Serbia, based on Article 158. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December 2001, and that, following the decision to place the draft law on the agenda, Article 88(2). Rules of Procedure, make changes in order of the agenda points and immediately open a search on this agenda point. A group of 42 MPs from the DOS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - Democratic Party of Serbia, based on Article 158. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda - a proposal for a recommendation on how to address the crisis in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December 2001, and that, following a decision on the agenda of the Recommendation, Article 88(2). Rules of Procedure, make changes in order of the agenda points and immediately open a search on this agenda point. I remind you, on this occasion, that Article 159 is Article 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia found that during the meeting of the National Assembly, an extremely urgent procedure could put the draft law on the agenda governing issues in the field of defence and security, if the Government's proposal, and the position of the 3rd member found that an exceptional proposal for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of office could be put on the agenda of the session, on a reasoned proposal from the authorising officer. In view of the fact that these proposals for acts have not been submitted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly cannot now declare them, but will plead at the first next session, in accordance with Article 86. Rules of Procedure, and by letter I have informed the authorised representative of the applicants of these acts. Proposals for these acts, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, were immediately sent to the MPs and delivered to the relevant committees and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the DOS parliamentary group Cedomir Jovanovic, based on Article 159 paragraph 3 and Article 43(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that, following an urgent procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December 2001. I would like to put the motion by the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, on the agenda of this session, to propose amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. For 139 against two, abstentioned 24, they did not vote 42, a total of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision and adopted this proposal. We now continue to work on the Labour Act in particular, and to decide on amendments. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 103 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milos Lukic to Article 103. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 57, against 150, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 104. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 56, against 153, there are no abstentions, no 7. A total of 216 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic to article 104. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 59, against 149, three abstentions, did not vote 6, a total of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 104. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15375	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104, which is an introduction to what's going to happen under Rule 105. The draft law speaks of legitimate reasons why someone may be fired, i.e. cancelling an employment contract signed with the employer, within the meaning of Article 103. The law that we were talking about before this break. There are five points here, which are justifiable reasons. Indeed, if that were so in reality, we could agree with the majority, that we are absolutely certain that under this DOS power it will apply point 4) which is that a legitimate reason for being fired from work cannot be regarded as a member of a political organisation, union, sex, language, nationality, social origin, religion, political or other confidence or any other personal property of an employee. There have been many examples in the past 14 months where in the most brutal way, the new DOS government has dealt with its political inexperiences. When lists were created to fire a huge number of workers from work, they were mostly used by these arches. However, in order to further protect workers in such inaccurate formulations, the SRS has proposed that you accept point 6 of Article 104, which says: "If the employer does not determine by means of a general act or contract of work what is meant and the way in which it is determined: failure to achieve the results of the work, the lack of the necessary knowledge and ability to carry out the work, the breach of the labour obligation and the lack of respect of labour discipline are not specified". Since the reasons why employees can be fired by employers are absolutely not specified by the Law, nor is it envisaged that the employer is closer to determining what is meant by the unrealized result of work, the breach of the labour obligation, the lack of the necessary knowledge and ability and the way in which it is determined that someone has just broken something of this number, we consider that the employer is obliged to establish all these things in the general act and contract of work, so that the employee is familiar with the provisions for which he can be fired, not to be some subjective position of the employer, especially when it comes to both social and private enterprises in our country. We believe that Article 104 of the proposed labour law, of course, should respect of this article be possible through point 4 at all, as I have suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15376	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 59, against 155, there were no abstentions, there was no 7. A total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We're moving on to Article 105. Members of the 105th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlović, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic and individual MP Radojko Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15377	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, came in turn and this article 105. He's a lot to talk about in the principle debate. You know, it was one of two amendments, together with Article 22, which were joint proposals from the Union of Trade Unions and MPs, the NS and the PDS, according to us two key members, who were given the opportunity to, through the abuse of those members, fire workers. There's been a long discussion about it, as you know. We have here received a letter from the Committee on Labour, which is given an amendment to Article 105. The bill, which adds Article 2 where it is said: "The employer can offer the conclusion of a labour contract in the sense of Article 1 only for justified reasons", and that Article 2 becomes Article 3. In the third position, as you know, that notice of termination is, unless an employee accepts a newly offered contract of employment. For our parliamentary group, this solution offered by the Labour Committee, and the Government's representative accepted, is a good solution, so for these reasons we will withdraw our amendment. This is a compromise solution that does not allow the abuse of Article 105. I would like to remind you that the government has come to the meeting in a similar way and withdrawn Article 22, or has accepted an amendment to Article 22 which had an even greater possibility of abuse, which is that in the process of changing the owners of a particular company, the employment contract is re-signed, i.e. there is no automatic validity of the labour contract with the new employer. The removal of these two members in the transition process prevented the abuse that can arise from the employer, i.e. the removal of reading of the Law as it corresponds only to some employers, those who have speculative interests on this market, so to speak; so that these greatest shortcomings of this law have been removed. It is also interesting that in yesterday's assembly debate, the government accepted what it did not accept on the first day of the debate, which is amendments that are in line with the union, so that only 6-7 amendments from the first day were not accepted. How it's gonna affect the union, that's what we'll see. However, it is interesting that the lack of DSS has in some way allowed what DOS has agreed with the union to be respected. We still have an amendment to Article 106, also a very important member. I'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15378	I find that MP Srdjan Petrovic withdrew an amendment that he submitted along with MPs Sladjan Mijalovic and Slobodan Adzic. Does the applicant of the amendment, Radojko Petric, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15379	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, the SPS has tabled an amendment to Article 105 with a proposal to withdraw it. According to the government's proposal, the member reads as a whole: "The employer can offer employees the conclusion of work contracts under changed conditions. An employee who refuses to conclude an employment contract within the meaning of Article 1, the employer may cancel the employment contract. "It's an entire member. As can be seen, there are no criteria to see what the changed conditions are and what are the reasons for giving the employer the right to cancel the employment contract. In fact, this formulation leaves a wide range of opportunities for the employer to set employed practically unacceptable conditions, to drive him out of the company and to break up with him. On the other hand, because of the extra unemployed in our home, the employer is given the opportunity to blackmail the employee because he has nowhere to go. So he has to accept what he dictates. He has to accept far more unfavourable conditions than normal ones. If the government's proposed provision is not deleted, then there are many provisions that we have adopted in advance. The employer will always be able to find an excuse to change the terms of the employment contract, impose much more difficult conditions on him, or force him to break up his employment relationship. The proposed solution completely disproves the employee and, without any pre-known criteria, leads to uncertainty and loss of employment. It's a strange little attitude from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs that we've been given today. It suggested that the following supplement be carried out: "The employer can offer the conclusion of a work contract within the meaning of Article 1 only for justified reasons". Who estimates the reasons for this? So it's the employer again. Therefore, indeed and essentially this proposal does not mean anything; so the proposal offered by the government in the original solution remains. If this member doesn't change, then this will really look like Prince Milos' initial legislation. You know, when they wanted to restrain him, they forced him to accept the constitution and a series of laws, they wrote these laws, they brought them to him, they read, and, to their surprise, he accepted everything... (President: Mr. Petrich, please talk about your amendment. That's exactly what the amendment's about. He says everything's fine, I accept everything, just to add one member, it will be as the prince says. And if this stays here as the government suggests, it will be as the employer says, and it might be a good idea to put in such a provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15380	The word is from the People's MP Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15381	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 145. For those of you who have no Rules of Procedure, for the sake of those who listen, that I may read; in article 145. The Rules of Procedure say: "In the course of the review of the amendment's proposal in writing can be submitted by the legislator, by the competent committees, or by the Government, but only if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of another amendment. "Here we are talking about Article 105. The law. For truth's sake, it takes Article 105. Read the law; it says, "The employer can offer the employee the conclusion of an employment contract under changed conditions," means, under this law, "A employee who refuses to conclude a labour contract within the meaning of Article 1, the employer can cancel the labour contract". This is Article 105. The bill, a member of the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Both MPs whose amendment was accepted by the parent committee requested an erasure of Article 105. If they have asked for an erasure of Article 105, where it is the basis for the Committee to now propose to remain position 1: "The employer can offer the employee the conclusion of a working contract under modified conditions" and then to offer Article 2: "The employer can offer the conclusion of a contract of work within the meaning of Article 1 only for justified reasons. "Where, comrades and friends of the Committee, or ladies and gentlemen, the link between the amendments you accepted when New Serbia voted to delete Article 105, and probably the DSS before returning to the DOS coalition; where now is the reason for you to accept the amendments that suggest erasing, and then call for your acceptance of amendments that suggest deleting Article 105 and adding a sentence, you are literally returning it to effect. Gentlemen dear in the O.R., excluding the SPS, and I assume the SRS and the SS, if this is part of your store, let the people know that you are the same, that you are together again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15382	Mr. Ivkovic, speak to the Rules of Procedure. I'm obliged to give you an explanation. You have advertised the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 145, that during the review of the Amendment Bill, the legislator, the competent committees, or the Government, may submit, but only if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of any other amendment. Mr. Ivkovic, I would like to inform you that we have accepted the amendment to Article 103. The labour law, and that means we didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, and if you're not satisfied with the answer, let me put it to the vote. I can only put it to a vote, not twice in the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? You don't want to? (Branislav Ivkovic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Ivkovic. Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, has the word. Right to replication, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as mentioned as the president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15383	Mr. Ivkovic, I will exercise my right to the Rules of Procedure, as president of the DOS parliamentary group. I must wish you "good morning" again, because, like most SPS MPs, you have slept not only through our morning work but also a day-long debate on the insurmountable differences between DOS and DSS resulting in a vote of confidence for Mr. Marscanin. Only you are able, along with the SPS MPs who have not participated in our work today, in what we have done to recognize a new coalition. So I suggest you have a cup of coffee and wake up, and until then let us work in accordance with this agenda. In 105, he received his clarification through the New Serbia initiative supported by the government, primarily because we care about fully applying this law and avoiding conflicts that could follow the wrong interpretation of this law through its application. In fact, the initiative following this amendment sets out the position of the 8th of this law, which makes it very clear that certain provisions of the labour contract which establish more unfavourable working conditions than the conditions laid down in the law and the general act, i.e. based on an incorrect notification by the employer of certain rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employee, must be invalid. Therefore, in Article 8, we have fully denied the possibility of abuse of Article 105 of this Law, which was initiated and under the form of doubt challenged. That is why we supported the New Serbia initiative, accepted the amendment, and we think that this further underlines that good intention and quality aspect of this law and, in particular, Article 105. It is in the interest of everyone and I personally have nothing against the Democratic Party of Serbia's decision to support this amendment, because it only makes it clear that it improves the draft labour law that we are discussing in particular. It is precisely the debate on details that can remove any ambiguity, and by voting against the labour law in principle, such a thing has been disabled in advance. Thanks to only the parliamentary majority, we are now in a position to talk here today. As for the deal with the unions, I remind you that every parliamentary group has been able to speak to the unions, and so has the DOS parliamentary group. But neither the Socialists nor the representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia participated in these talks. Finally, by agreeing and insisting on the DOS parliamentary group, the government adopted 33 amendments to the Labour Law proposal, which fully met all the preconditions that preceded the union agreement, on the one hand, and the DOS parliamentary group, on the other. So when we end the vote in general, the public will be familiar with the fact that we have accepted 33 amendments... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... We've exceeded the union deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15384	Here you go. So, as a representative of the parliamentary group. It's not a replica, it's a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15385	It's not a replica, but I have the right to be president of the parliamentary group. For those who were in this room but were awake, it is clear that MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia had at least 20 amendments in the morning and all participated in the debate, including me. Those who sit in the O.R. and don't follow what's going on can conclude the opposite. As far as amendments by MP Radojko Petric are concerned, it is clear that he is asking to delete article 105 in general. He's not the only one who asked for it with his amendment. He asked for another MP. The most beautiful thing is that the parent board supported both the amendment. The parent board decided with votes and New Serbia to accept the amendments and suggested that the Assembly delete Article 105 from the law. How and why did the parent committee happen to meet again, to call, past the Rules of Procedure, on Article 145 and now propose a formulation - the employer can offer the conclusion of a working contract in the sense of Article 1 only for justified reasons? Who estimates, my dear colleagues, what are the reasons? The court estimates. If the court estimates, then there's still hope, but that hope comes down, probably, to a minimum number. As far as the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs are concerned, they first asked for the withdrawal of the law. They had 78 amendments. They work regularly in meetings. They worked with honor and honesty in the morning, and you could all see and hear them. You'll hear them this afternoon. We believe that article 105 should be abolished. Why now some others who have now entered the O.R. support him, it's an honor to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15386	The word is Mr Nikolic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we should have the right to discuss two amendments: the amendment of Radojko Petric and the amendment of the Labour Committee. It is true that it becomes an integral part of the bill, although it does not exist and is not submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but until this moment we did not have the opportunity to meet or discuss it. But we find it interesting that this amendment was delivered to us early this morning before the debate on Article 103. The Committee has already concluded that amendments to Article 103 have been adopted. Well, for God's sake, since they've already been adopted three hours earlier than they've been discussed, here's the Committee's reaction to Article 105. These are stories for little children, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is about something else entirely. Through the fate of these amendments lies our destiny. A little later, after this amendment, we received a request from a parliamentary group asking us to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to ask the Serbian president to disband the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15388	Please, Mr. Nikolich...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15389	Don't ask me anything. You have no reason to beg me. You have 131 MPs, I heard. I can see by the attitude you have toward the Socialist Party of Serbia that you no longer have to pray for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15390	Mr. Nikolic, don't let me warn you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15391	Now they sleep until 12 o'clock, and while you were making quorum here, they were good and you didn't warn them about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Well, now let me tell you, you've been so angry these days, you've blacked out, I haven't been able to listen anymore. I can't wait for you to vote together again. I can't wait. One thing I'm going to wear mostly on my soul - is that we Serbian radicals lose the election of this kind. Did the people of Serbia know? And to you, gentlemen, who are still plums for them, and you will always be, just one more tip to give.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15392	Mr. Nikolic, I warned you twice to get back on the subject. Since you have two warnings, I am forced to take your word for it. Mr. Nikolic, I warned you twice. Please leave the pay phone. Mr. Nikolic, I ask you once again to step away from the pay phone after I have taken your word and let us continue to work. You know the next measure is distance. I think it's good to get back to your seat. The MP doesn't leave the pay phone. ) On the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, since the People's MP who's been told the measure of taking words won't get away from the pay phone, I'm fixing a ten-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, for the remainder of the session, let's determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. According to the Rules of Procedure? The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we attended the most brutal abuse of rights by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Micic, who for absolutely nothing, for only her own reasons, recruited Tomislav Nikolic, took away 16,000 dinars from him, and also took away his word, although he did nothing for the Rules of Procedure, so that he could be taken away from him. The debate was completely normal, I would say to one natural time, for you favorably - for us and for Serbia relatively unfavorable, and unfavorable because of the fact that you adopt Article 105, that one bad law will pass. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has given himself the right to commit the most brutal violence, the worst possible abuse, and to take away the word from the man most normal from this assembly pay phone about what is happening today in this room. In Article 103. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia set out the terms and conditions in which the reminders are given to the MP: who approached the speaker without permission - is not; who speaks before he has asked and received the word - is not; who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda (from the Hall: it is). Don't yell...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15395	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15396	They can win because they can't talk from a pay phone, they can't even get their lines out, the only thing they know is howling, howling and reading newspapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15397	Mr. Wolfie, take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15398	What should I take care of? I take care, and you take care of how you chair, how you conduct the session, how you make warnings, how you take away your word. That's what you need to take care of, not me. If you think that someone will be afraid of you, if you think that by reciting the MPs of the people, you'll scare anyone, and if you think that's why we're going to stop telling the truth from the speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that's where you're wrong. You took away the word from the MP of the SRS and the deputy head of the parliamentary group. First you kicked out the president of the SRS, anti-business, against the law and against the constitution, so he wouldn't be able to talk here about the Labour Act. Now, in front of Article 105, you have taken away the word of the MP and deputy head of the parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, so that he could not speak of the Labour Act and Article 105. Do you want to take everyone's word from us?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15399	Mr. Wolfie, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15400	Let me finish. Are you going to make a decision to throw us all out? Make a decision, go ahead, you can do it. I told you once before, make a decision, form a firing squad, shoot us all, don't harass us, don't piss us off. We're not going to take your bullying and your shagging, so no matter how much you think we're going to be forced to do it. We will not tolerate your racketeering, nor your kidnapping, nor your insolence, nor your insolence to take away people's words just because they speak normally. We weren't talking about sleeping or waking up here, we weren't talking about anything at all, we were talking about how the authorities talked about each other. It's not five minutes. It's only five minutes. I have broken the Rules of Procedure as long as I speak 15 seconds longer, and you have abused it in such a way that you take someone out of the pocket of 16,000 dinars, and yet you behave arrogantly and insolently.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15401	Mr. Wolfie, I'm obliged to give you an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15402	I don't need an explanation. Put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15403	I'll put it on, I have to, first I have to explain. That's what the Rules of Procedure is like. I believe I did not hurt Article 103 because the speaker, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, spoke despite my warning about a question that was not on the agenda. I asked him best, it doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure, but I really asked him best, check his stenographic notes. Then I warned him twice, even though he only writes here once. That's when I took away his word. You've told one truth, and that's that he was talking about something that's going on in this room, and that's not an amendment to Article 105, and that's not a topic. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica, this is my explanation. I've done nothing to offend you. I can only put you to a vote on whether you think I've committed a breach of Rules of Procedure in Rule 103. I didn't misread you, nor do you have the right to reply to my explanation. [[Alexander Vukic, from the place: I will, and before that I want a replica, you have misread me.]] I'm obliged to give you an explanation in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Vukic, I'm asking you if you'd like the National Assembly to make a statement as to whether I've hurt the Rules of Procedure of Article 103. You can't have the right to a replica, we've never given the right to reply to an explanation of the president's injury to the Rules of Procedure. So, you have the right to ask the National Assembly to state whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure or not. I'd be happiest if I hadn't been in a situation if I had to take my word for it. First, would you like to make a statement, I ask you, did I hurt the Rules of Procedure? You want to vote, yes or no? (Alexander Vukcic from the post: "Let's vote." ) I am putting to vote the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 103, which was advertised by MP Aleksandar Vukic. For 28, against 117 abstentions 8, 55, a total of 208 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has ruled that there has been no breach of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Wolfie, after the Rules of Procedure again?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15404	For those illiterate who don't even have a Rules of Procedure, I'll say a member. You can vote whatever you want at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You can vote in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the country is fourth. That's what Radoman Bozovic was saying in his day. You can vote that there are no people here, you can vote that none of us are alive, you can vote whatever you want, the problem is that you can't hide the truth, because the citizens of Serbia (if there was a direct transfer, I'm not sure about it anymore) could see what happened. You only took the floor away from Mr Nikolic because he said, in view of Article 105, that DSS representatives had told the DOS and that DOS representatives had reviled the DSS and vice versa. There was enough reason for you to take away his word. Will you shut up, officers? Would you stop, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15405	Mr. Wolfie...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15406	I haven't seen this in my life -- that someone who isn't an MP sits in the front row and talks all the time and doesn't give the MP a statement from the assembly pay phone. So, you can do whatever you want, you can vote from Thessaloniki, you can win by making most of it happen, but before Tomislav Nikolic from this pay phone, everyone was talking about everything, which has nothing to do with the National Assembly, the amendments, or anything else. Only Tomislav Nikolic, because the Serbian Radical, had to get your sentence, had to happen to be taken away from him, because you have a warrant and in this case alone you will not have an intervention from the OSCE I don't know) or which organizations you already have. Yes, you can do whatever you want to the radicals, but make sure that the citizens see this well, that the citizens know well, and that this kind of evil, this kind of kidnapping, this taking of the word Serbian radicals won't last much longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15407	Mr. Vukiæu, you did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure that you are asking to explain; only to remind you that Mr. Ivkovic spoke according to the Rules of Procedure, so he did not speak about Article 105, that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic used the right of replication and, therefore, was not obliged to speak about Article 105, and that Mr. Tomislav Nikolic appeared as a representative of the SRS parliamentary group and that he did not speak of Article 105, which I have indeed warned him about and prayed best, and I am sorry that it ended this way. Mr. Nikolic, I guess I didn't offend you by saying that I'm sorry that the situation took place that I had to take your word for it. [[The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic requests the right to reply.]] Mr. Ivkovic answered for the word, on what basis? (National MP Branislav Ivkovic, from the post: Based on offensive words. There were no offensive words about socialists. Mr. Ivkovic, I'm assessing that there were no offensive words, don't approach the speaker, I didn't give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15408	This was about socialists.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15409	Mr. Ivkovic, please step away from the pay phone. The word is from Mr Marko Petrovic, representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, following an amendment submitted to article 105.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15410	Dear colleagues, I know it is very boring here to listen to the proposals of these laws, to discuss amendments, especially to individuals who have learned that some other means can be reached by means other than democratic procedure and democratic voting, but that was no reason for my colleagues, who regularly and normally reported to me for the word as head of the parliamentary group, to make me stand there for an hour and wait and watch what this is all about. It's true, and I think I can only take three minutes away from you, and I can do more, for a simple explanation about article 105. In a principled debate on this law, New Serbia, too, as head of the parliamentary group, said from this same place that it was a member of the Law that was most controversial. As you can see, practice has shown that it is. As soon as he was put on the agenda, an hour was a break, the congregation included several hundred marks about it. So, yes, Mr. Tomo Nikolic, I was looking for a word and I'm really making a mistake because Mrs. Micic didn't call before me, she called you. If she had called me before you, you wouldn't have lost that money.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15411	Mr. Petrovic, I warn you to get back on the subject. This is an amendment to Article 105.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15412	In 105, he challenged with the right of great doubt in all of us. As you can see, there were amendments to erase him, there were amendments to dress him up. Why he caused the most doubt - because he has only two attitudes, which give the employer the right, absolutely right, without any explanation, to fire the worker from work unless he accepts the conclusion of a new contract under changed conditions. This is not a problem for private firms, however, it is a huge problem for social firms, whose Privatisation Act, which we adopted here, rang in three to four years. Therefore, the directors of these social firms, if this member does not change them, have Pharaoh's powers, only in two terms of this law, so that, firstly, they offer to change their jobs, and secondly, if the worker does not accept it, he is deprived of his job by automation. We thought it was final, not inhumane, but also indemnity, and it wasn't in the spirit of those intensities and those desires that the DOS had last September, so in a conversation with the minister, in these few days, for ten days, how long the debate on this law took, we came up with a proposal that wasn't compromised, I can say freely, but a proposal that was exactly the way we wanted it to be. We wanted a slightly more radical proposal, but it would violate that famous constitution of ours, which we are all tripping about here, the 1990 Constitution, which was brought to the beaches of the Budvan and Ulcinian Riviera, where it could be voted on the beaches of our sea, because it was brought before the first democratic elections in Serbia in December (Serbia Constitution was brought in September of the month). And, therefore, by referring a lot to that constitution, we and how we break what we have to do, which is to pass normal laws, which shouldn't concern him very much. Let me just underline what this statement of ours refers to - the employer of a social company, i.e. Director, it should not be possible to fire a worker in a simple way and thus, retail on a small door, become the owner of a factory. But at the same time, it should not prevent the owner of a private company from having that freedom that, during the transition, when there is a very unstable market, supply, demand, perhaps several times over the year, it changes its production programmes and its products. Therefore, private entrepreneurs, if this Article was adopted in 105, as originally stated, would be prevented from changing their production processes and their products so dynamically and quickly, and the directors of social enterprises would also be encouraged to slowly lay off workers, and finally, after three to four years (when the Privatisation Act gives them the right and obligation to privatise all social-owned companies) the minority is alone in that company and thus negotiate with the future buyer. We have here proposed one supplement - the insertion between the first and second attitudes of one position, which reads: "The employer can offer the conclusion of a contract of work in terms of the position of the 1st member only for a just cause". It seems a bit banal, but justifiable reason determines the court and gives the right, especially to workers who work at a social firm, that because of their director (who, we assume, will not be, but if he is promised to throw them out without reason), in court they demand justice. So this attitude allows the court to interfere with Article 105.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15413	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 105 to vote. I ask the MPs to declare themselves by voting (this applies to the amendment of MP Radojko Petrovic, as a group of MPs, headed by Mr Srdjan Petrovic, withdrew its amendment). For 63, v. 118, abstention 23, did not vote 9, a total of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs submitted its submission to Article 105 of the amendment. The amendment was agreed by the president of the Committee's proposal. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we do not have reports from the Committee, I would like to put the amendments to article 105, which has been tabled by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. For 157, against 33, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15414	It's good, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which is a recent amendment to Article 105. They were guided by the same idea as the Social Democracy MPs when they submitted their amendment. So, they had the idea that it was not good to allow for an extremely extensive and possible interpretation of the legal provision, as it was given in the bill, by which practically any refusal (irrespective of whether the proposal for the conclusion of the contract, which was given, was legal, whether it was possible at all, permitted, justified) meant or could be interpreted as a reason for the termination and termination of the employment relationship. We support the amendment that was adopted. One such intervention was necessary. However, we gave our amendment on October 18th, and it seems to us, with an intervention that is still better for shades. I will therefore try to convince the Assembly that it is necessary to adopt that amendment, although at first sight it seems illogical, as it is possible, by applying the mechanism set out in Article 139. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, through the editorial, make these two amendments common. What exactly is this about? Therefore, by introducing the word "justifiable reasons", the employer can offer the worker a working contract under changed conditions. The question arises why this and that categorization. The employer can offer the worker whatever he wants and whenever he wants, for justified or unwarranted reasons. It's not a problem in disposition. All that matters is what's sanctioned. So, the employer can offer whatever he wants, it's important that the worker doesn't have to accept it. On the other hand, the employer can offer something that is not justified, but at the same time it is not contrary to some imperative norm, so the worker accepts it and then we have no problem again. What matters is, it's important not to put a worker in a situation where he has to accept something. In one word, it was necessary to intervene in the provision where sanctions were given, it should have been said that the worker could be fired when, for unwarranted reasons, he refused to conclude the contract under changed conditions. I'll remind you, gentlemen, there may be situations when from the employer's point of view a new offer to close the labour contract seems justified. You have ten employees, you have the need to hire one worker on night watchman's jobs and why you would hire the eleventh, when one out of ten can offer a new job contract. At first glance, however, it seems to any of the ten, but only one of those ten, works, has night blindness and has a legitimate reason to refuse that conclusion, and the other nine do not. In one word, it is excellent that the amendment was adopted just now and it is good that now the justification of the new contract will be appreciated by someone who is not only an employer, because it is a court; it should wait for time to come through new labour law practice, collective agreements and general acts and court practice to create eligibility criteria. But it would be good to adopt an amendment whereby a worker can only be fired when he refuses for unwarranted reasons. I'm staying on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15415	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15416	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, for the sake of the public, since so much talk is made about this article in 105, I will read it, so that the citizens of Serbia know what we are talking about here. It says, "The employer can offer the employee the conclusion of a working contract under changed conditions." In the second point, "A employee who refuses to conclude a contract of work within the meaning of Article 1, the employer may cancel the contract of employment". So, it seems to me to me that all the citizens of Serbia, all the people who want to think, is absolutely clear about how bad a member is and that here, in fact, it is the essence of this law that the proposer would like to put all the powers in the hands of the employer, that workers and their representatives are no longer asking for anything. So I'm not going to speak demagogical by protecting only labour rights and saying that everything depends on the employer because I'm against the government, but because it's really a fact, even if it's funny to the minister; whatever the workers are doing, whatever the workers are trying to live, he's going to laugh more, which he cares about, he's so much easier and better, he doesn't have to listen. As for the amendment of the group of MPs, I would say that for some 10%, if it can be mathematically expressed, it has been corrected by this member - not enough, especially because it is an unclear formulation of "unjustified reasons"; again the question of how and how such a norm would be interpreted, who would be the one to interpret it, what would be the protection, which is the second-degree procedure. Much remains unclear, but yet there is at least one formal fence that can't be for unwarranted reasons. It seems to me that it's something that's small after all, but what kind of -- that kind of protection for workers right now. If you are not already able to accept the amendments of the SRS MPs, it would be good to accept the amendments of your representatives who, in the interest of the workers, are much less, especially from the roots, but still, as much as - in the interest of the other party, change this. I think that would be something acceptable to the Serbian government, something that is acceptable to the promoter. Nothing fundamentally would have changed in his proposal, and workers could find at least some handle they could get caught for, which would have been said in the people, at least something they could hold onto and demand their rights, asking not to be fired, not to be fired, not to be removed for not signing a contract of work just because the employer liked it so much, because someone has blue or brown eyes, and this one would like to have black eyes or otherwise. It's completely possible under this law, it's not true that it's not possible. There is no norm that would limit it. It's time for those who only do what they do to read the newspaper and yell - time, to leave the National Assembly, because I'm sure that's what the citizens see.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15417	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 128, with 28 abstentions, there was no vote of 16, a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 105, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15418	It is clear to me that many in the National Assembly have a complex of us Serbian radicals, above all, because we are principled, unpurchased, valuable, smart and disciplined, but this disease cannot be treated, unfortunately. As for the controversial amendment to Article 105, we are not interested in your mutual trade, nor are we interested in the amendment tabled against the Rules of Procedure by the Committee. For us, this amendment does not exist, nor does Mr. Novakovic exist now in the National Assembly. We asked that Articles 105, 2nd, 3rd and 4th, which reads as follows: "Employees are entitled in the case referred to in Article 2(2) of this article to appeal to the court for contesting the permission to amend the labour contract". Item 4: "The execution of the termination of the labour contract is delayed until the judicial decision is brought to justice". Let's remind ourselves of what this is about: therefore, the employer may cancel the contract on the work of the worker unless he accepts the contract of work under changed circumstances. What the labor contract contains is said in article 21 and certainly the employer will not change the name and last name of the employee, his professional equipment and so on, but is primarily thinking about the possibility of a second job. Or if, say, the labor contract contains a norm -- you have to put so many sweaters in the glove box today, so now that standard doubles it, and this one knows he can't do it and doesn't accept it, and that's why he's firing. That is why it is of paramount importance to prescribe in this law that the worker has judicial protection, because there is no other law that would prescribe it. The employer is left with great authority here, because he will offer such a contract to the worker, assumed, which he cannot carry out, in case he wants to abuse this right that the law gives him. Just imagine, under DOS government in public state-owned enterprises and in social enterprises where their directors are going to have revenge against workers who are not in the same political party in which the director is. Well, there'll be layoffs just like that. Besides, it's already in practice. Here we've only given the possibility that workers can easily be fired from work without having any judicial protection. This opens up the possibility of a kind of forced labor. The employer will unilaterally force the worker to accept or accept something. If he doesn't accept it, he loses his job, and if he does, we have forced labor, which is forbidden by the Constitution, both republican and federal. The Republic Constitution in Article 35 prohibits this and the Federal in Article 54. What's social policy like? Mr. Minister, what about those workers who are out of a job? You yourself have said in this law, I will quote you: "Social policy, according to the Government, should be guided through the activation of a transition fund where employees will be able to retrain themselves according to the needs of the new programme and investment" - foundry in locksmiths, locksmiths in foundries and so on. Did Djindjic now look for Germany, beg a billion marks for investment, because he says -- it's not worth it, all you give for social contributions is small and we can't settle all social needs. You admit you don't have a social program and instead of looking for ways to speed up production, you're still going into dubiosis. What to expect is that workers are left without a job. If someone gets up and tells me -- that's how it was under the previous law, I'll say right now, that I wouldn't answer the line if it wasn't true. True, Article 108 prescribed that an employment contract could be cancelled, in case there was no job where a worker could be deployed, within the meaning of Article 23. The law, and this Article 23, prescribes a certain commission that must be composed of people who are the same expertise as those who are not satisfied with the work, who can unilaterally cancel the work contract, and only on the basis of the findings and opinions of the commission can the work relationship stop. It's all in the hands of the employer, and the worker doesn't have almost any protection. Mr. Minister, just one more thing - why don't you prescribe this law obligation for the employer to provide a sandwich, organised bus transport and paid daily workmen to go on strike? Will that be possible under the new law? Will a private employer pay that to the union? Now, that's what I'd like to see, but it won't be possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15419	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic's proposal is a promotion to the original solution, although we at the SPS consider it not a good enough proposal and that it would be best to delete the article 105. The government here says it did not accept this because the working relationship could result in changes in working conditions, transfers to other jobs, second place of work, and it is necessary that these elements of the labour contract be changed, i.e. to offer employees the conclusion of the contract in changed conditions. The government also calls for Article 108 of point 5 of the current law, where something similar is spoken, to be fired by an employee unless he accepts a change of business. That is not true, because Article 108 of the current law says: "If he refuses to work in a workplace, not to whom he is assigned in the sense of art. 21, 23 and 24." and these members say: Article 21: "In the event of the need for a work organisation process, employees may be assigned to each post corresponding to the degree and type of professional training, knowledge and ability"; Article 22: "Employees may, with their consent, be temporarily deployed to work with another employer, on the basis of the agreement of the other employer", and then speak of individual cases, four or five such cases; Article 24, where it is said, "Employees may, in exceptional circumstances, be temporarily deployed to other tasks for which a lower degree of expertise is required than those which they have, in the case of more force: fire, earthquake, flood which is created or directly ahead". So there's a big difference between these solutions given in the existing law and what the government is offering us. The best solution was to delete this article in 105.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15421	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as member of the 105th Parliamentary Group of the SRS and MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted the amendment and added pages 3 and 4 to the proposed section 1 and 2. The governments of the Republic of Serbia, which say, "Employees have the right in the case referred to in Article 2 to press charges against the court for the challenge of amending the labour contract". Item 4, which is much more important: "The execution of the termination of the labour contract is delayed until the judicial decision is brought to justice". If you accept the proposal of the SRS MPs, then we will have something that is guaranteed by the Constitution the right of every citizen of this country, which is the right to judicial protection, especially when one of his constitutional rights is threatened, which is the right to work. So this is how we protect two constitutional categories by accepting this amendment. True, you can't make a right out of the coat of arms, but we can change this law as much as possible and it is relatively acceptable for workers, for employees, for citizens of Serbia. If accepted, workers will have certain protection, especially due to the fact that the execution of the dismissal is delayed until the judicial decision is brought to justice. That's what's most important, what's going to destimulate the employer for nothing is that he's accessing the changes to the labour contract, that for nothing, or only his own known reasons, he's firing the workers. It is therefore important to accept this amendment by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm sorry most in the National Assembly don't even want to hear what this is about, people seem to have better things to do, I figured you'd read everything this morning and you didn't need it all day. Once again, I call upon the Members of Parliament to accept this amendment. I'm not going to go into the DOS trade, some obvious things are happening, and we Serbian radicals don't withdraw our amendments, we don't withdraw our political programme and our ideas from day to day, so I'm asking you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15423	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 44, against 106, with 28 abstentions, 22, 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 106th Amendment were submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15424	The Honored Presidency, honourable fellow Members, in Article 106, the problem is about the cancellation, that is, the launch of the resignation. I will read Article 106 to explain the amendment - cancelling the employment contract referred to in Article 103 paragraph 1 point 1) to (4) 6) and 7) the employer may give to the employee within three months of the day of knowledge of the facts that are the basis for firing. This is where MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, but not only them, but also other MPs of the parliamentary groups, noticed that only the subjective deadline for resignation was given in article 106. Our opinion is that the subjective and objective deadline should be combined, so we gave the same reasons as the amendment, which reads: "The employer can cancel the work contract within 30 days of learning about the facts that are the basis for the cancellation, or within three months of obtaining the conditions of termination. "It is much better for us to combine these two cancellation deadlines, for it prevents abuse of such an important act as quitting. Similarly, SRS and SPS MPs have noted and complemented the subjective deadline for firing their amendments and have given that objective notice period, so it is acceptable for us to adopt any of these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15425	Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 106 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and MP Dragan Tomic submitted. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15426	As you have already learned from the previous presentation, the amendment to Article 106 refers to a period within which an employee may be fired by the employer and we have asked that in Article 106, in the first position, the following: "Cancer of the contract of employment referred to in Article 103 paragraph 1 point 1 to 4) 6 and 7) the employer may be given to an employee within three months of the date of knowledge of the facts which are the basis for firing", adds the text which reads: "i.e. within six months of the day of the occurrence of the facts which are the basis for firing". We believe that, in addition to this subjective period of three months, there must be an objective deadline, preventing the possibility of abuse of rights by employers and ensuring legal protection of employees. But to end this laugh by Mr. Secretary, who's all nice, he's happy. In 105, through these rotten compromises and the return of one another to the embrace of another, it was passed, in a manner that corresponds to the legislator. I have to take this opportunity, because I promised it to a Kragujevcan worker who spent 31 years and 11 months in the Zastava car factory working on very heavy and responsible jobs, in which you couldn't even imagine yourself; that only those people who watch you chew gums, candy, some snacks and other snacks, salty and sweet, read the paper, don't pay attention to what's going on, and just one of those who's been doing it on my question -- well, how can you eat seeds or anything, the president of the Belgrade General Committee is laughing at everything I'm going to tell you. So it's one of the 15,000 that you left out of a job. It's a worker who, through your famous agreements, Mr. Minister, then when you were quite flooded, fled from Kragujevac, you left without a job. That worker asked me to tell you this: in addition to the ultimatums you conducted in the flag group, in the car factory, you lied to them both against the law and against the constitutionally you fired them, you forced them to sign the agreement. His agreement is here, a statement, that he must have his further status in the flag - employment and education (that famous internal employment office); he was promised, Mr. Minister, you, Bozidar Djelic, the little one who could not stop by here in the Assembly, as well as Minister Vlahovic, Minister of Privatisation, that seven days from the day of signing the contract, you would give him a miserable compensation in contrast to 200 German marks for each year of his internship. The gentleman who gave me this letter and asked me to inform you (not only himself, but because of all those who are in the same situation, who can't feed their family, who are now out of work, and much worse fate will find workers in all of Serbia, after voting like this,) told me to tell you that until today, and he signed a contract on September 24th, he didn't get a single dinar of 3,500 German marks that he needed to support his family members, and that you personally and two of your friends, to call them that, promised them on the night you came to create chaos in Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15427	The word has Minister Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15428	I mean, about the flag, first of all, no one forced anyone. Each of the flag workers who accepted one of the three options, and these options were: going to the labour market office, going to a new education and employment or taking severance, he could have chosen it on his own. There's a deadline to be respected. It's probably just some mistake. I'll check tomorrow morning and that worker will be paid for the severance payment. Despite these words, since the law is so well-conceived, the government will accept this amendment by Ms. Natasha Jovanovic, so I think it will become an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15429	National MP Nenad Bogdanovic, the basis for the replica. The MP Nenad Bogdanovic did not say, but the president of Belgrade's Executive Board laughed -- it is not a basis for replication. Snacking seeds isn't an insult. This speaks more of those who tell such stories in the congregation than of you. You've got a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15430	I just can't believe it. It's my problem to replicate someone who with so much pleasure insults anyone he mentions. It's hard to answer that. First of all, I'm just biting seeds at a football game. So I'd like to ask you to control yourselves in the future. You have a fixation when it comes to me, but it doesn't matter. We can talk about this later. It's just rude to see every man the way you see him. I think you should think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15431	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's get one dilemma straight. Mr. Bogdanovic is one of those who often earns speakers. It's not a problem he throws away, but the problem is that he swears, he doesn't choose words. I can't tell if he was biting seeds at that point, but what he usually does is much worse than biting seeds. That's exactly what's safe and I'll confirm it. Don't pretend nice and good because citizens can't see you at all times. I don't mind when you throw. It's part of a congregation mile, it's something that's meant when there's more passion. But don't say don't do it, because you're one of the worst in the matter. As for amendments to Serbian Radical Party MPs Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, the amendment is really good and the fact is that the minister accepted it, if I understood correctly. It's good to at least accept something. It's gonna snow tomorrow. I just have to say a few things why it's important and why it's good that something like this has been accepted, regardless of the fact that our amendments to article 105 have not been accepted. It's good because what the government has explained, which is exclusively a subjective limitation period, is its only use in no way good. The exclusive use of the subjective ageing period is very bad and therefore it is necessary to introduce elements of an objective ageing period, not to leave everything at the will of an employer who can abuse it, arbitrarily interpret it, not to speak of what is unmistakable under what discretionary solutions are. It is good that the minister accepted, although it would have been much better if he had accepted amendments to Article 105, which essentially determined and defined this law, and it would have been better if others who spoke in advance - would have been rejected amendments, do not even go out for a pay phone, at least sometimes listen to their own, if they did not listen to us from the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15433	Anybody else answer for a word? The basis for the replica is the presentation of MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15434	I can thank Mr. Vukic for everything he said. It's an extraordinary compliment to me when he says it. Which one of us knows everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15435	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Dragan Tomic, as the applicant for the amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15436	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, it is good that the minister has accepted this amendment. My amendment is in the same text as Miss Natasa Jovanovic's amendment. I just wanted to warn you of some more details that may have missed, and it's a good thing we adopted this amendment, because it definitely limits some things to the employer. There is no longer that condition with the employer. It is an infinite period, from the day of knowledge, that is, from the beginning of the fact and within six months. So, no more deadlines. For what reason? This Article 106 is absolutely related to Article 103. I'll tell you a few details. He talks about the employer's layoffs and is particularly located at four points. The first point of Article 103 speaks about when employees do not achieve the results of work. So the exclusive right of the employer is that I'm an appraiser and says you don't realize the results of the work and you lose your job. Second, when there's no need for knowledge. What's this need for knowledge? Someone who's been working for 30 years, like this Kragujevac worker, and then someone realizes he doesn't have the necessary knowledge. We were against this point, the 103 class, which speaks - fired due to technological and organisational changes. I agree that when it comes to a crime, it really needs to be restrictive and to fuck time periods for firing. Because whoever's doing the crime at the workplace doesn't have to work at that firm. I don't understand what's going on with my amendment, since it's identical.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15437	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to Article 106, which were submitted in the same text by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Dragan Tomic, who accepted the government's representative at the meeting of the National Assembly. The vote of the National Assembly is necessary because we do not have the opinion of the relevant committee. For 161 versus 7, abstentioned four, 17 did not vote, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment, which was accepted by the government's representatives, and has become an integral part of the bill. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 107th Amendment were submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. (Meho Omerovic, from place: We withdraw the amendment. ) On behalf of the group of MPs, MP Meho Omerovic withdraws the amendment, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Members of the 109th Amendment were submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15438	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been here for days and we have been hearing and discussing many amendments that we, MPs from opposition parties, and part of the positioning, and especially the MPs of the Soviet Union, have tried to point out certain indiscretions and depravity in the draft labour law. However, we did not come to an understanding. Also, here today, what has been said for days about this famous member of 105, and what has been mentioned by many MPs, as well as the MPs of the Soviet Union, have finally been fulfilled. It went the way it went. However, in this proposal, the labour law is not only disputed by Article 105, but also by other members. Maybe by paying no attention, but one member has been neglected. That's exactly what this 109th member of the Soviet Union I've submitted an amendment to. To remind you of what article 109 is about. The bill of law, let me quote it: "In the event of termination from Article 103, point 1. 1) and 2) of this law, the employee ends the employment relationship by paying the cash fee: 1) at the rate of one profit - up to two years of continuous work with the employer; 2) at the rate of one and a half earnings - from two to 10 years of continuous work with the employer; (3) at the height of two earnings - from 10 to 20 years of continuous work with the employer; (4) at the height of two and a half years of continuous work with the employer." I have submitted an amendment, which reads: "In the event of termination from Article 103, point one. 1) and 2) the working relationship with the employee ends by paying a single salary fee for each year of continuous work with the employer." Also, let me remind you that in Article 103, point one. 1) and 2) the employer has the right to cancel an employment contract if it is established that the employee does not achieve the results of the work and does not have the necessary knowledge or ability to carry out the work he works on. Now I ask the legislator: the worker has been working for 25 or 30 years with the employer; the new employer who buys one of our factories finds that the conditions in point are met. 1) and 2) Member 103, and give that worker a job, pay him, ladies and gentlemen, two-and-a-half earnings - who will take that worker to work at 25.30 years of work, and he has 25,000 or 30,000 dinars in his pocket. Where's the welfare, where's the help, where's the understanding of such a worker? We'll have a bunch of such workers. That is why MPs in no way can accept such a proposal in Article 109. I think that's consistent with all the basic social welfare standards of endangered workers. For this and many other reasons, the MPs of the Soviet Union will not support the draft law on work in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15439	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 108, the two abstentions, were not voted 26, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic to article 109. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. I give my word to Mr. Toma Bushetic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Zarko Obradovic has submitted an amendment to Article 109 and is related to the cancellations referred to in Article 103(1) and (2) relating to cancellations due to inadequate employment results and as a result of the identification of insufficient knowledge or ability. First, the points in Article 103 are absolutely subjective. The employer can determine at any time that the results are not good and that the worker suddenly does not have adequate knowledge and ability to do a certain job. With that in mind, and the proposal itself, that in the event of such cancellations, cash compensation is paid at between one and two and a half earnings, depending on the years of internships, that they are quite miserable, small - the proposal of the MPs of Obradovic is to increase and be from three to 12 earnings. So, three earnings for a job internship up to two years, five earnings for a job internship from two to ten years, eight earnings from 10 to 20 years and 12 earnings over 20 years of internships. In addition, it is recommended by the International Labour Organisation, when it comes to this member of the law, that efforts should be made to make these monetary benefits better.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15441	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I haven't had a chance to say what Mr. Bogdanovic was saying, to know who was who. I agree with every word he says, from this pay phone, in that replica. There is only one problem in the behaviour of the majority MPs, we didn't want to, and when we talked about some MPs' behaviour, we forgot to wish Mr. Novakovic a nice lunch the day he voted here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I hope it was very pleasant, Mr. Novakovic. As for the amendment proposed, the SRS supports it because we believe that we will not do much, but in some ways improve the position of employees. It is interesting to read the explanation, i.e. the reply of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; professional services, I suppose, they wrote this by rejecting amendments to MPs. It says that the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted because the solution proposed in the law provides for minimum rights and is appropriate to the economic opportunities of most employers. Of course, it is further said that there is no legal interference that individual employers, who have financial opportunities, provide employees with a higher cash compensation in case of termination of employment on this basis. There are now two questions -- the first question is: did the legislator count on the current situation and on the current economic power of our employers or did the promoter think about any future economic power of employers? If he thought of this future, considering everything they say (that honey and milk will flow in Serbia, that everything will flourish, that we will live much better and the prices will be much lower, and they pay much more), in which case the promoter would have to accept such amendments. He'd have to accept it because it would be insignificant obligations for an employer. If the promoter was counting on the current economic situation, which is difficult, then it is true that the employer will hardly be able to do it, that kind of obligation, but then the second question is: is this law made for the next six months, until this situation is improved by much, or has the law been made for a long time? I think in his opening statement, the minister told us that it was a law that would mean something to us, to represent the positive legislation of the coming years, not only for the next six months; or the Minister himself is a skeptic of our economic situation, so he knows it won't be so easy and so beautiful, but we have to tell the people that he's going to be much easier and much better. If it gets any better, then this amendment can be accepted, because it says in point 1) instead of the word "one", the word "three" stands for "three" and for the citizens to be clear what it is -- in the case of cancellation from Article 103, point 1. 1) and 2) of this law ceases the employment relationship by paying cash compensation, up to two years of continuous work by the employer, while the amendment provides for three earnings. So, if there is such an opportunity for us to be much better, for economic life in Serbia to be incomparably more developed, I am convinced that the legislator could and should accept this amendment, unless it is another kind of fraud that we have talked about, as a major global fraud, which happened not only to the Serbian people, not only to Serbia and Yugoslavia, but also to many other countries in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15443	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 109 abstentions, there were no 30 votes, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Now we have one proposal -- to change the title above article 110. National MPs Sladjan Mijalovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic have tabled an amendment proposing to change the title above article 110. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (The applicant withdraws the amendment. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I find that the amendment has been withdrawn. Members of the 110th Amendment were submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 110 is talking about illegal dismissal. I'm just surprised, this is one single amendment to this article, and at least this attitude 3 is absolutely unacceptable, so I suggested that it be deleted. Let me tell you what this is about -- it's about the fact that when a court makes a strong decision, it means in the event of illegal dismissal, that the worker returns to work, the employer is obliged to compensate him for the damage he lost during that period. It's okay. However, paragraph 3 states: "The damage suffered by Article 2 will be reduced by the amount of income that the employee has made on any basis, at the end of the working relationship." What does that practically mean? An example works. An employee in a good company gets fired illegally. The resignation lasts three years, until he returns to work, the compensation for cash damage must be paid for, for example, the salary. 400-500 marks, but now in the meantime for what he was doing, which he was forced to do, reduces that cash compensation. He was working, for example. At the train station, unloading coal, getting 100 marks, and now the cash compensation is reduced. I think it's absolutely wrong and there's a proposal from the International Labour Organization when it comes to this member, that workers are not protected enough, that they are alone in proving their innocence. In the West, it's been regulated differently. For example, in Italy we have a two-degree court case, we have an institute of reconciliation. There's no such thing here, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15445	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendment tabled by MP Toma Busetic. For 43, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17, a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic to Article 113. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15446	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, member of the 113s, to which the SPS has submitted the amendment regulates the right of an employee to pay a part of the salary during the temporary distance from work. Namely, employees may be temporarily away from work, if a criminal case has been brought against them, because of a crime committed at work or in connection with work. Also, employees may be temporarily away from work, if they have committed a serious injury to their work obligation and if they do not respect the prescribed working discipline of the employer. The government suggests that while the employee is temporarily away from work, he has the right to make a profit of 1/4, and if he supports the family, at the height of 1/3 of the monthly earnings he made in the month before the temporary distance. With my amendment, I suggested that not 1/4 but 1/3 of the salary be paid during the temporary distance to the employee, or if it supports the family, that it should then be paid 1/2 of the monthly earnings. I remind you that this is the right, as I suggest, the employees also had according to the current Labour Law. I would like to point out that in the amendment's proposal, I have not managed only the solutions so far. First of all, I had in mind the existential reasons of the employee. So what does he live on, like his family, while he's temporarily away from work? Independently, it is now from gross or net personal income, as stated in the reasons for the rejection of the amendment. In the first place, I mean the case where a worker is released from criminal responsibility, as well as the accusation that he has committed serious injuries to work obligations and did not respect the prescribed working discipline of the employer. It's not good just on the assumption that an advance worker should be punished so cruelly and punish his family. There is no full compensation for the worker or his family, which, if proven innocent, will be paid the difference in profits. That's why I think the amendment should be accepted, that during the temporary distance from work, one-third is paid, and if the family is supported by one-half a month's earnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15447	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from Mr. Vukic, representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15448	I didn't, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the parliamentary group, but it was trouble to do so after you took Mr. Seselj and Mr. Nikolic's word. I'm only waiting for when you'll be waiting for me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not understand, I must be honest with you, the reply of the professional services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which says the amendment is not accepted because the amount of the fee has been determined in relation to gross earnings, which provides the same right as the net earnings." What does that have to do with the proposed amendment? As far as I understand the promoter, the essence of the amendment is that during the temporary distance of the employee from work, in the sense of art. 111 and 112, the employee's salary is one-quarter, and the amendment's proposer has placed one-third. It is further said, if it supports the family at one-third of the monthly earnings, and the amendment envisions one-half of the monthly earnings. This is the essence that has nothing to do with such an explanation, but it seems that one of the professional services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia remained with those old tax laws when we changed the net earnings for gross earnings, and still counts and talks about only one thing. I think this amendment can and should be accepted. I am sorry that no earlier amendment has been accepted, which has spoken of how much it takes to pay the worker at the time of his resignation; this is one of the bad things for the employer, especially since the state here usually cares about its interests, so state-owned enterprises in social property, but I think that our government, which boasts that the budget is constantly filling and that there is no problem with this, since we have many donations, can accept such an amendment and damage workers much better than its proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15449	Anybody else answer for a word? Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15450	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must ask you to try to discuss this amendment to Article 113, including the consideration of Article 115. The draft labour law, because you will see that these two members of this law are, in fact, the most directly connected and that Article 115 eliminates all fears that follow the possible abuse of the application of Article 113 of this Law. If we look at this context now of net and gross earnings, you will see that in fact one half of the personal income (as defined by the current regulation then), today's one-third of gross earnings, and according to Article 115, the employee has the right to compensation if it turns out that he is unfairly sanctioned by subtracting two-thirds of the guaranteed earnings on the basis of an employment contract or collective contract. So, I think that Articles 113 and amendment have no worse intentions, but you have to understand that these are things that are too delicate and that we cannot enter so directly into the right of the employer to carry out this kind of "discipline procedure", and of course the role of the court which determines the foundingness of any kind of temporary sanctions to be applied. Thus, article 113 says: "In the temporary distance of the employee from work in the sense of art. 111th and 112th of this law" (on which was recently discussed) "the employee is entitled to a one-quarter salary fee, and if he supports the family at one-third of the monthly salary he made for the month before the temporary distance". The second view says: "A profit charge during temporary distance from work within the meaning of Article 112 of this law is paid to the burden of the authority which ordered the detention." Article 115 states: "Employed during the temporary distance from work, the difference between the amount of earnings received under Article 113 of this Act and the full amount of earnings made for the month before the temporary distance" with the employer during which the fee is paid and that, so now we have two bets, 1) "if the criminal proceedings against him are conducted................................................................................................................................................... (employee, meanwhile), will be suspended" and, 2) "if the employee does not stop working within the meaning of Article 103(1) point (3) to (5) of this law". I think it is clear that this right, which is being followed by the employee, in terms of exercising the right to profit, will be respected if his innocence is determined. If there is an injury to the relationship between the employer and the employee, or to the violation of another law, not to go into criminal proceedings now, it is clear that the employer cannot pay and that the provisions of this law are then applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15451	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 105, there are no abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic to Article 116. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the section that speaks of the surplus staff under Article 116 of this Law, which reads: "The employer who has a working relationship with indefinitely more than 50 employees and intends to cancel the employment contract by more than 10% of the total number of employees during the calendar year due to technological, economic or organisational changes, is required to adopt a programme of resolving surplus employees." I suggested replacing it with 5% of the total number of employees, so it's not 10% but 5% -- it seems to me that the government can always accept it and that it shouldn't be a bigger problem. We would provide something that would still be easier for employees who represent surpluses and which, I think, should not be a burden to the state either. It would be good for the government, by accepting such amendments, to show good will and desire to meet workers. I don't see any reason not to accept such a thing. By the way, I hope that someone will explain to us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia what is happening, why suddenly there are no 30-40 MPs again, how from certain parties people do not come at all, will not attend. It's a simple trick, I guess, in a matter of fact, I might have said a more difficult word, but pretty amazing things are happening in the congregation. I wish some MPs had more respect for the National Assembly and those who chose them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15453	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic to Article 116. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15454	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, this is also one of the most important members of this law. Article 116 makes the difference between companies up to 50 workers and over 50 workers. If the employer has more than 50 employees, he is obliged to bring in an extra-employee resolution programme, and if he has less than 50 employees, then he is not obliged to bring in the programme. My amendment refers to the following - I request that part of the text be deleted in Article 116, behind the words "which", so it is deleted "in working relation to an indefinite period of more than 50 employees", so that the difference is deleted in the number of employees wishing that in any case, when it comes to canceling a 10% employment contract, regardless of whether it was 10, 30, or 60 workers, the employer should be obliged to adopt a program of resolving excess employees. The amendment makes full sense and is neither contrary to the spirit of the proposing nor to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia wanted with this law, for the simple reason why I do not see the difference between workers. Now I can move on to the part that speaks of the constitutional rights of workers. What are the older rights of workers - are these in companies up to 50 employees or in companies that have over 50? All rights should be the same for all workers; if we fire them, a program should be written for the rescue of extra employees, regardless of what we mentioned today "the flag" for which the employee programme was written. What difference does it make if it's a social company that has 45, 46, 47 employees? These are some medium-sized enterprises, i.e. under the Accounting Act, these are small enterprises. The majority of the companies in the area are in the private sector. There are a lot of companies in the private sector. I think this amendment makes full sense, and it makes sense and goes to meet that Law on the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises. So it connects all these things and it's not contradictory in any part of the applicant's intensity and everything that was wanted by this law -- at least in a way that in some part of this law, we get to the point that workers are equal. I think that this amendment of mine, to some extent, would correct the injustice when it comes to the rights of employees and we wouldn't come into a situation where we have workers with more or less rights, because writing a program of solving extra employees would put us in a position to write a resolution program for any worker who is out of work. So, with the extra-employee rescue program, we'd be in a position to treat all employees in the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15455	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Toma Bushetić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15456	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 116, nothing's wrong. For what? In companies up to 50 employees, the employer freely quits and these workers are not protected at any time. So they don't have any protection. Where we have a number of employees, the employer can fire up to 10% without consulting the union, and the reasons are technological, economic or organisational, which can always be invented and created. There are no criteria for surpluses. Do you consider the criteria that are necessary? For example: results of work, professional preparation, work experience, material position, single parent, etc. Simply, this proposal by MP Dragan Tomic is what -- such a mitigation of the solutions given in this article, so I suggest we accept this at least.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-11-0.u15457	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 109 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Good day, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 169 people's celebrations. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that the use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Petar Misic and Radomir Naumov announced a delay. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF RAD (resuming in particular) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Dragan Marković to Article 116. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, against 127, there are no abstentions, 16 did not vote, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 117. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
