ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10374	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 133 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have informed you that the following MPs will be absent: Vojislav Dossen, Dragan Marsicanin, Boško Ničić, Nenad Bogdanović, Zoran Angelkovic, Marko Jakšić, Vladan Jovičić, Branislav Pomoriški, Zoran Bošković, Momcilo Trajković, Bojan Kostreš, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovac and Slavoljub Matić. In the morning, Jelena Milenkovic is away and Stanko Kovacevic and Vojislav Jankovic are away. The delay was announced by Milutin Svetovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF PRIVATIZATION(s) The word has a National MP Dragoljub Vojnović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10375	Dear Presidency, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am free to suggest that the National Assembly is not in session tomorrow. On the significance of Vidovdan, any Serb who speaks to other Serbs should imagine. So I won't talk about it. I suggest for purely pragmatic reasons. First of all, I don't think we're going to finish discussing this bill tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Secondly, the good part of our MPs are educators who are supposed to be with their students tomorrow. A good part of us has kids to be with. So, once again, please support me so we don't sit down tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10376	I'm putting the motion to vote so tomorrow the National Assembly doesn't ambush, it's a rough day. For 105, against 28, abstentions 8, no vote was made by 8, out of a total of 149 MPs. I find that a decision has been made and a proposal has been adopted that the National Assembly does not ambush tomorrow and that it is an unworkable day. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, sir. First of all, he called in the Rules of Procedure. Sir, did you give up on the Rules of Procedure? He gave up. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10377	When you give me your word in the Rules of Procedure, then there's no-- excuse me, did you give up? You should follow once you give a word to the Rules of Procedure, he has the advantage, regardless of what you may have done wrong in order. I suggest that the National Assembly not today sits on this agenda, because the nation is occupied with uncomparably more important problems at the moment. Tens of thousands of people are on the streets of Belgrade. More than 100,000 are expected today, as the federal government has violated the constitution, passed a regulation that directly destroys the legal order, and the leaders of the regime are preparing an unprecedented betrayal in the history of the Serbian people, by delivering Serbian citizens to the highest former state officials, and then the top military and police officers, the criminal tribunal of The Hague. (President: Mr. Seselj, I understand the proposal and I will put it to the vote. The others didn't understand. I know you're very reasonable. (President: everyone understood. Don't explain it to us. ) However, I have the right within my time to explain the proposal. Since the eyes of the nation are focused on these developments, as there is a great confusion in the country, as the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Vojislav Kostunica was found in unwarranted grapes - we saw yesterday that he did not even know what he was saying at the press conference because he broke all his pre-election promises. (President: Mr. Seselj, I give you my first warning because you have made an insult to President Kostunica. ) He firmly guaranteed Kostunica that he would not deliver Serbs to The Hague tribunal, and he broke his promise. (President: Mr. Seselj, this is not a political moment. Hold a press conference. How much do I have in my Rules of Procedure? (President: You put in a proposal and there is no need to explain it now. You are preventing me from explaining my proposal. How can you do that? (President: You have explained your proposal to us. I didn't explain it. I have the right within my three minutes to explain the proposal. I haven't run out of time yet. (President: This does not mean that you three minutes post-traumatic should say anything. That means maximum time limit. I'm not talking about anything, I'm talking about what gets you the most, and that's the reason for my proposal. Since all nations are in shock over the criminal conduct of the DOS regime, I demand that today not the National Assembly be ambushed. (President: I give you a second warning, because you said: "The criminal behaviour of the DOS majority". According to article 101, I give you a second warning. ( ) It is necessary for the National Assembly to sit urgently in matters of violations of the Constitution and of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10378	I'm putting Mr. Seselj's proposal to be unhappi today, too. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 35, against 117, there were no abstentions, no four votes, of a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The word has been made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10379	Madam Chairman, you've missed your chance to give me your word in good time. Perhaps the outcome of the vote in making the first decision would be different if you had listened to my argument. Indeed, in Serbian tradition, Vidovdan is never marked as a day off. Simply, in both the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, it was a working day, and it was a day of mourning for Serbian knights who suffered from swelling. Of course, the outcome of the vote is now like this and it would be irrevocable to vote on the same thing again. Secondly, the proposal not to work today had no argument. I would really ask the MPs not to play the role that they are greater Catholics than the pope.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10380	You have no right to a replica. All right, come on, come on in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10381	Short replica. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am precise when I speak. I didn't say we weren't working, I said the assembly wasn't ambushing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10382	On Article 3 of Amendment 1 to which he proposed amendments in Title 2, as well as to other members where the word "propriety" was mentioned, MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant change the word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if there is a quorum today, we will work on amendments which, if possible, are able to correct the bill's proposal, so that it can be applied in practice and that it does not cause the consequences that would lead it to a situation that would not be applicable. What's this about? The position of Article 3 provides that the subject of privatisation is social, i.e. state capital, in the further wording of capital. Then, by the position of the second member, suddenly the property or part of the property of the privatization entity appears as the subject matter of privatisation, i.e. certain parts of the privatisation entity. Of course, capital is property, but when its liabilities are taken away. This must have been clear to the legislator as soon as he predicted the privatisation of capital in the first position. What's this really about? It is about this decomposition, a new word that appears in economic practice, and also in state practice since the DOS came to power. So it's about, for example, the flag factory in Kragujevac. We are entering the privatisation process, so capital should be privatised. However, since there are parts of companies there that can survive alone on the market, suddenly the legislator says, so can property, so can parts of the privatisation entity. So, the toolbox, the mechanical processing and some other parts of the Red Flag Institute will suddenly go beyond the basic purpose that the factory envisions, past the production of the car, in privatisation. It's going to be what's big, what's been hired by a bunch of workers, it's going to be tape, assembly; I don't think the laundromat is going to want to do that, because it's been destroyed in the bombing, that someone's going to get involved in it right now. All of a sudden, we're messing with our businesses just what's right for the customer. He's not fit by the company, the privatisation entity, he's comfortable with the parts of the privatisation entity, and then he even fits the property, so we can get into the Hungarian privatisation model, get someone to buy our halls and close them right away, make horror movies in them, American. You have a chance to watch American movies, and mostly the store happens in abandoned halls, factories. It's all there: both engines and fans, and parts of the machine, just gone capital, no workforce, no product. It's waiting for us if this unscrupulous, insensitive, immoral -- I have to say, we're going into privatisation. How do we admit that there's something we can sell, something we can't. So what's the point, what's the purpose of privatisation? Bring down 15,000 employees to 2,000 employees. What about the others? Does it say here that whoever buys part of the privatization entity will be responsible, in any way, for the other part of the privatisation entity, for the employees of the second part of the privatisation entity? Is it written in this law as a liability, does it say in the terms of auction, in the tender, does it make any commitment to the buyer to produce at least five years of what was produced in that factory, that at least two years does not change the number of employees? Is there any obligation for customers other than government obligations, for society in general and for employees? I would ask Zechariah, if he had finished his field work, to rest here, not to cast a speaker to talk about his amendment. It's not right that you're gone for 15 days, and as soon as you get to the O.R. on the 16th day, you throw the speaker. Go back to sunbathing. So I doubt the good intentions of attitude 2 that changes basically the attitude of Law 1. Disabling the position of the 1st member of the law. What it means is, the subject of privatisation is capital, and in the second position it says, it doesn't have to be capital, it can only be part of capital, it can be property. Then why is it not in the first position of Article 3rd said - the subject of privatisation is capital, property, part of the subject of privatisation - then we would know what it is. It's like under the grain undermining another attitude, and then it stays... (President: five minutes and forty seconds. ..... I'm done, then it stays pretty mysterious how we're gonna handle it. When you have in mind a member who prohibits and sues by creditors, when you have in mind that all payment procedures are suspended in the debtors, then, or at least some of us, it becomes clear that our privatisation will not go much better than privatisation in other Eastern European countries. Besides, the same people do it for the same money, which we would like better than others.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10384	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Please, the word has the Minister of Economy and Privatisation, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10385	It is perfectly normal to predict that in the privatisation process of social and state capital can be privatised part of a privatisation entity or property of a privatisation entity, because we find the situation in the Serbian economy, which is that a large number of businesses have a negative value of capital. It is true that the assets are capital, but the assets are net capital, that is, when the assets are deducted from the liabilities. Gentlemen, don't implement a social programme in any company by making someone hold six, seven times the number of workers you need, because that way you won't be able to force anyone, it's not a social programme, but by entering into the economic development and development of new jobs, where these people will be adequately employed and where all of this together will contribute to economic development. For this reason, we remain in the definition given in Article 3, which is that only in the privatisation process can part of the property be privatised, i.e. part of the privatisation entity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10386	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10387	The amendment by MP Tomislav Nikolic points to the nebulousness of a member of the 3rd Law on Privatisation. Why? It's about selling property to a privatization entity. It's not a privatization entity, it's a privatisation facility. If he's a privatization entity, otherwise he's a business life subject, a legal entity, as a legal person -- how someone else can sell some of his property. The state, even when it owns a public enterprise, directly sells part of the property of a public enterprise, but a part of its property can only be sold by a public company, but previously requires consent from the state. In particular, the situation is more difficult and nebulous when it comes to the social enterprise, as the legal status in the current legal order of the public and social enterprise is significantly separated. The company is a legal entity, a legal entity, no one on behalf of that legal person can make a decision on the sale of a part of its property. The Serbian government cannot sell part of any social enterprise in Serbia under the current legal order, absolutely cannot. This kind of nebulism any average lawyer would immediately notice, and this is proof that the lawyers didn't write you a bill. What's to be done? First, property is a broader concept than a notion of capital. Property covers capital, but also many other things that are objectively not capital. Therefore, it should be kept talking about assets, about privatisation of assets, not about capital. Secondly, it's impossible in this way to isolate some of the property and sell it. What do you do with the rest? So the government to sell what's best, what's healthiest, and shut down the rest of the company. The rest of the company just can't do business without the best part. If the rest of the company is economically, if there is one, and if that part, which was desirable, supported the entire company, then it was one big social function. This law cannot be seen outside the aspects of a serious social policy. The law must not grumble over an objective situation in Serbia, the economic crisis and social misery. This law cannot be morally clean in relation to the negative social consequences it will produce. This law must take all of this into account and therefore we have proposed one provision to give a discount to the customer of the company, provided that it does not reduce the number of employees. If you will sell what is most exclusive for many Belgrade firms, for example business space. Someone won't buy the Belgrade department store, and they want the best part of the business space. You don't want to sell the best part of the business space, and what you're going to do with the Belgrade department store company, you don't care. For 10-15 years, the company has supported itself exclusively from business space. Or you've got JugoExport and some similar companies. So, you can't take away what's only worth it to a company, what's worth giving for a living, and you don't care about the fate of a company. Each company must be seen as a unique legal person, and in this case it is a privatisation facility and the state should look for an opportunity to sell it as a whole, in such a way as to protect all social interests. So, the interest of the state, the primary state interest - that the state gets the money. Secondly, the interest of employees, and their interest, above all, is to have a job and to be adequately paid for. The third is the interest of all other economic operators. They are not meant to sell the business premises of the Belgrade departments so that foreign companies that will flood our market with goods from foreign production, even sell the first year at dumped prices, and destroy all other domestic production. This will happen, such plans already have, to sell the business space, to sell the main department stores in Belgrade, to come to foreign companies and bring goods that will, with their brightness, luxury, appearance, packaging simply occupy the attention of domestic customers; we will kill the rest of the production, and when they kill the competition on our market, they will be able to sell their goods freely. It's no coincidence that you're constantly talking about selling the market. That's what Djindjic was talking about in Slovenia. You would now return Slovenians and Slovenian goods and close our factories. It's the essence of your concept of economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10388	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by Tomislav Nikolic on Article 3. For 38, against 113, there are no abstentions, no 13 votes, a total of 164 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Cvetanovic, as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(2). In Article 2(2), the privatisation process provides for the sale of assets, part of the property of the privatisation entity, or certain parts of the privatisation entity. The amendment consists of saying: "privatisation", they add: "under the obligation of the company's buyer to invest in the company itself", for several reasons: to sell property or part of the property of the privatisation entity, i.e. certain parts of the privatisation entity, this means that privatisation is not only a social and state capital that the company has, such as the 1997 Act on its own transformation, but can sell property or part of the property of the privatisation entity, which allows the sale of the company's assets without investment in the company. That's why it's my suggestion to be a customer's obligation to invest material assets in the company itself. Otherwise, we need to know that the value of the capital represents the difference between the total value of the commercial assets and the total value of the corporate liabilities. Business assets consist primarily of basic assets, buildings, machinery, land, immaterial investment, cash, securities of value, and demand from customers, supplies and others. We have to bear in mind that when selling any company, the buyer buys a so-called. Good Will Enterprises. Good Will Enterprises is one immaterial value, it is the image of enterprises that often cannot be materially, or monetaryally expressed. For the value of the company itself and how much it means. Most often it comes down to the nice villa in the business tradition of a particular company, business partners, the corporate debt of the company itself. Since there is a great interest in potential customers, which is logically, for companies that do well, the importance of this amendment with the aim of the obligation to invest in the company and how it makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10390	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? I give my word to Mr Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10391	The amendment by Parliamentarian Dr Goran Cvetanovic is based on the Hungarian experience. The Hungarians hurried with privatisation and sold a large number of their bagatel companies to foreign companies, primarily German. The vast majority of these companies came into possession, stopped production, sold out Buddhisms and turned large factory halls into warehouses, filled them with foreign goods, primarily German, a lot of Austrian, and other goods. In this way, privatisation in that part of Hungary was counterproductive. They were sold for the sake of companies that paid for some wages, as much as - so many tavors, existed, produced, and paid for, etc. Somewhere good, somewhere bad, somewhere they barely made ends meet, and then they ran out of work in those companies, and all those employees lost their jobs and had to go to the labour market, they had to go to the gray economy. Hungary went through this problem of the gray economy, although it had no sanctions, no blockades, no war, etc. A much worse situation was in Romania and Bulgaria. Bulgaria has become an importer of vegetables from Europe's largest vegetable producer, due to an easy-to-think privatisation carried out in this way, due to a lack of clause protecting domestic economy, domestic market and local citizens. Here, it should be specified in the conclusion of sales contracts, as the government appears as a direct seller, that the government builds certain orientations to which it would act in any particular case. Orients should be based on primary national interests. It is more national interest to remain more employees than to obtain more money from privatisation, as the state cannot use the money it receives from privatisation itself to create new jobs. The state knows how to open jobs only in the state administration. This is unproductive and causes catastrophic economic consequences. However, if the state commits a customer who gets a discount to maintain the number of employees, to determine the minimum number of employees, then it does something that is generally useful for society in general. What can it be? A customer doesn't have to make a commitment to keep all the employees in their jobs. He can redeploy them, he can open up new drives, say it doesn't take that much in the existing drive, but they stay busy until he opens up a new drive, so he'll do something about that new drive. So, the internal redistribution at the firm is his free will thing, but from the outside point of view he must not have less employees than he had before the sale, or before the company was sold, which she supported, in any way that she supported. It's the only way to stop us from getting a new few hundred thousand unemployed workers. The DOS itself has announced that it will be around 450,000, serious economists predict it will be at least 700,000 workers who will be left without employment. This is the fundamental problem of this law, and that is why such a guarantee is needed, that we are not actually leaving all of Serbia without a job by implementing this law. We have no use for the government getting the money from the sale of the largest companies, companies with the largest number of employees, when the government will spend that money quickly, and these workers remain unsecured. More important is the existence of these workers than any amount the government can count on. On the other hand, it is better to sell cheaper companies and have so many employees, because they will be taxed on their salaries through sales taxes, etc. The state will never lose that money if it preserves employment. If he loses his job, he'll have nowhere to charge his taxes in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10392	The word has an economy and privatisation minister, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10393	Of course, our key goal is to invest in businesses because we realize that Serbia's economy is at 40% of the gross national income achieved in 1989, because we realize that Serbia's economy is completely inefficient, with an inadequate structure. This provision on additional investment is one of the basic criteria for selecting a strategic partner and is located in the so-called ‘Strategic’. tendering methods of sales, i.e. auctioning methods of sales. Therefore, I want to assure the public that the government's interest is not to maximise privatisation revenues, but rather to maximise investment in the company, and to respect and implement the tendering method, i.e. auctioning. This must be one of the criteria for selecting a strategic partner, i.e. when selecting a buyer. As for Hungary, Hungary recorded the lowest unemployment rate in Eastern Europe in 2000, 8.3%. This is enough for you to know to what extent direct investment has put Hungary at risk, and bear in mind that since 1995 Hungary has been recording a constant inflow of foreign investment of two billion dollars, with the exception of 1996 when the inflow was $4.5 billion. Thus, you can see whether the foreign capital that entered Hungary and over 2/3 of the capital that emerged during the privatisation affected the Hungarian economy positively or negatively. In the end, it is true that capital is the difference between assets and liabilities. As measured in the accounting sense and in the accounting dictionary, it is quite accurate formulation, however, in business terms capital is the result of a successful business of the company and when it is estimated so-called. Intangible value is the most commonly used method of over-average profit. This is the only possible method based on which you can determine what the value of that immaterial, unrecognizable investment is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10394	We don't have any more sign-ins. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic on Article 3. For 39, against 106, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 15, out of a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The People's MP Ljubisa Maravić submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10395	I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on Article 3, which reads as follows: "Law 3 is amended and reads as follows: the provisions of this law apply to privatisation entities established in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with the territory of the AP Vojvodina and the AP of Kosovo and Metohija". The proposed bets of Article 3. The laws ignore the areas of autonomous provinces. I have made an amendment for the reason that Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique, so the proposed provision of the Privatisation Act, privatisation entities based on the territory of autonomous provinces, is not ignored, since autonomous provinces are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Since the committees did not accept this amendment, I asked Minister Vlahovic, if he could, in his brief presentation, explain why this was not accepted. I would also like very briefly to meet all fellow MPs, with one event concerning Kosovo and Metohija. We, not long ago, had a debate over Kosovo and Metohija and heard the presentation of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic to Kosovo and Metohija, what the government intends to do towards Kosovo and Metohija. On June 22nd, however, a meeting was held in Gracanica, attended by the heads of secondary and primary schools, from territory and from Serb communities. The meeting was also attended by UNMIK representative Mr Daxter, and at the meeting, Vigor Majic announced a decision by the education ministry in Kosovo and Metohija under UNMIK's jurisdiction since 1 September 2001. The Ministry of Education's decision, as said in Gracanica, by Mr Majic, has caused a great dissatisfaction with the parents, so I would ask that someone, in the name of the ministry, say something, because I fear it will cause far-reaching consequences for education in Kosovo and for the remainder of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10396	Right on line, MP Bojana Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10397	I am the People's MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Assistant Minister of Education. (Employer Seselj, from the post: On what basis? ) Based on, or on behalf of the Ministry of Education. (Employer Seselj, from the place: He cannot expose. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10398	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 96 - Chairman decides who has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10399	What we just heard, it's just not true. The Ministry of Education, i.e. the College of the Ministry of Education and I, on behalf of the Ministry of Education, as Assistant Minister and Coordinator for Kosovo and Metohija, sent a letter 15 days ago to the principals of primary and secondary schools in Kosovo, saying that the Ministry of Education is behind secondary and primary schools, that they are still in our authority, that the Ministry of Education pays double salaries to educational workers and that it is not, and will not give up its rights, in relation to education in Kosovo. And, no moment at all, that's not our goal. I wasn't informed that Mr. Majic had done such a thing. I spoke to him at the college this morning, and he said his statement was completely misread. In any case, it can't be the Ministry of Education's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10400	The word is Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10401	This is one of the brutal violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which you are systematically doing here. Article 134 makes it clear who can participate in the debate under the amendments. You gave the right to a replica to a MP who had no right to a replica on any basis. It is not mentioned personally, it is not a party representative, to come out on behalf of the party, and what is worst, by law, a MP cannot be an assistant or deputy minister, nor can he work in a state administration. But since you're breaking the Constitution so openly, making counter-constitutional regulations, it's no accident that you're breaking the laws here in this way. You have other MPs who are deputy ministers, ministerial assistants, advisers all the way to the cabinet of ministers. It's something amazing. You may have the previous authority for everything to attack, but at least that's not what happened. And now, despite our protests, you openly violate the Rules of Procedure, you give a word to a person who could by no means receive a word. What does that mean? What does that mean, plead, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10402	Mr. Seselj, you have brutally violated the Rules of Procedure by throwing yourself out of place, and you yourself said, and protested during the speech of the People's Parliament, Bojana Aleksic. Secondly, she was entitled to a replica because I estimated she had a right, under Article 96(3). It's my authority, it's not your authority. And thirdly, you've been entitled here to the replica, and as a red-and-black coalition, and as a previous government, and in all possible variants, and then, when some time you get right to a replica of someone from another parliamentary group, it's hard for you. Are you asking us to plead by voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Employer Seselj, from the place: Yes. I put to the vote the objection of MP Vojislav Seselj to Article 134. It means a breach of article 134 has been committed. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 39 MPs, against 91, three abstentions, were not voted 26 out of 159 MPs. I find that there has been no injury from Article 134. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You're welcome to report back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10403	You're the only one making noise, and yesterday you were walking out of the National Assembly with rat channels, when the rallyers came across. You're the only one who's making noise. You've got something terrible coming on. You've broken the Rules of Procedure again. In interpreting my advertising, you should have adhered to the Rules of Procedure, not to justify your violation of the Rules of Procedure by my possible violation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10404	Which article does it say, Mr. Seselj, why don't you give me that article, and let me read it out loud.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10405	Just a little patience, it's not the same when I'm protesting from the bench and when you directly violate the Rules of Procedure, from the chair. Please read a member of the Rules of Procedure on the role of the chairman, and then you will draw a conclusion from that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10406	That's Article 28, to remind you, but that's what you should have known, and that's how you break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10407	Don't teach me what I should have known, since you don't already know anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10408	I'm asking you which member, you're required to specify which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10409	You don't know anything here, and you brutally violate the Rules of Procedure, and then you won't admit it, but you say, "I've assessed it, I've concluded it." So who are you to judge and conclude, who are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10410	Chairman, that's the answer. The word has Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10411	First of all, my colleague Vigor Majic's statement was completely misread. As you know, education and health care are excluded from Resolution 1244, and the Serbian Government, Ministry of Education, i.e. the Ministry of Education and Sports, fully fulfils its obligations defined by the Constitution and law, both in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. I assume you're interested in this information and that at least you could listen to it. As far as Mr. Maravić's amendments are concerned, precisely because he is in Article 4. The constitution defined that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique, there is no need to particularly point out in the law that the law applies simultaneously in the autonomous provinces of Kosovo and Metohija, or Vojvodina. This would be purely legal pleonasm in this case - confirming something already confirmed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10412	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10413	I'm advertising a violation of Rule 97 of Article 1 where it clearly states that no one should approach the speaker until the President of the Assembly allows it. We're here to witness that someone ran for this pay phone. And as for the minister's explanation, I can only say that he told Serbs that they should be happy in Kosovo and Metohija that this trial, pilot schools, UNMIK school is being introduced, and that this will be soon and throughout Serbia. So much for the comment of the assistant minister from the meeting in Gracanica. (Minister Vlahovic asks for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10414	You challenged the minister's replica, so you don't have the right to speak. Mr. Seselj, the People's MP has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10415	I'm not sure this amendment should be accepted in this particular text. But the amendment is important because it points to a problem that the writers of the legal project had in mind at all. Here, in fact, it would be more appropriate to rule out the possibility of any privatisation in Kosovo and Metohija while the occupation continues, until the government of the Republic of Serbia regains all competences in the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Here, a ban on the privatisation of state and social property on one part of Serbia's territory should be imposed, specifically limited, on which Serbia's state authority is currently not extended. It formally exists, but essentially that power is currently in no position to exercise any authority. This should be done in order not to happen under the analogy system that the occupier, even, conducts himself in Kosovo and Metohija privatisation under this law. He can even do it under this law. Of course, it won't come to his mind, because he thinks that there, creating a new state, he has to bring in all new legal acts. However, we do not have an excuse, it would be good, it would be very important, in this law as well as in a whole series of other laws, to treat Kosovo and Metohija as occupied territory and to say that the law will not be implemented there as long as the occupation takes place. Where law enforcement is not possible, and some laws can be partially implemented and during occupation, at least in those municipalities where Serbs and members of some national minorities in Kosovo and Metohija still live. In that sense, this amendment is not bad, and it points to a problem that the Government did not have in mind, nor did the minister in charge, but it would be good if they really wanted good for their people and the state to, while there is still time, make a correction and to come forward with that correction to the National Assembly. It's not too late, as long as there's a debate in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10416	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Marko Giulibrck as the authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10417	Although in the government's explanation, it was said that under Article 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia belongs to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina, from the behaviour of the existing government, it cannot be concluded. That's why we asked for an explanation, to explain it a little bit better. In addition to breaking the Constitution at all levels and in this law, in addition to education, where these examples are included, and where on the Education Committee a month ago this was indicated, we also have a problem with introducing customs or taxes in Kosovo and Metohija without anyone taking responsibility for it and transferring it from the Federal to the Republic Government, or from this to that. Much more is being done in the government to treat Kosovo and Metohija as a unique part of Serbia's territory. That's why we asked Minister Vlahovic to explain, and that is why we don't think a list of these 150 strategic firms that will be listed under a special programme, whether this includes "Trepca", power plants from Kosovo and other large enterprises. It may also be one of the reasons why these companies are not on a special list to adopt it in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10418	The word has Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10419	Because of the public -- it is not true that this government and this ministry are doing nothing when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to businesses in Kosovo and Metohija. First, there is a privatisation agency's branch in Kosovo and Metohija's territory to participate in the privatisation process. Secondly, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation began talks with UNMIK on the status of "Trepce", because, don't forget, gentlemen, in "Yugobans" there remained debts and the property "Trepce" is not in our hands. These debts were incurred during the rule of the previous regime and the previous government. The previous government passed a Law on its own transformation where it listed particularly strategically important companies from Kosovo and Metohija, so there were also "Balkanbelt" from the Suva Reka, and "Trepca" from Kosovo Mitrovica, and "Stanoje Aksic" from Lebanon, not to mention "Koteks" from Peća and all other companies. What you did and what you achieved by keeping a list of strategically important enterprises, which were simply handed over and out of the influence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. That is why I note - Article 4. The constitution makes it clear that Serbia's territory is unique. I also note that the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, together with the government, intends to continue to address the economic issue of Kosovo and Metohija through talks with UNMIK, and not only the issue of applying this law on privatisation and control by intended privatisation entities, but also the issue of property restitution, mostly land.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10420	Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I would like to put the amendments of MP Ljubisa Maravić to article 3. For 38, against 107, there were no abstentions, no vote of 15, a total of 160 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to Article 3rd paragraph of the amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) Please, Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, is present, so I give him my word as an authorised representative of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10421	The Honorable Presidency, the President-in-Office, honourable MPs, allow me to wish you a good day and welcome you on behalf of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, on behalf of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina. I also congratulate you, all MPs, on the patience of building the institutions of the system which are the cornerstone of democratic regulation, as well as the adoption of this law or legislative package in principle, which are fundamental laws in defining the political-economic system of the state and the foundations of the announced changes. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina took an active role in this process. The fruit of these efforts is also a significant moment -- for the first time, it is using its constitutional ability to contribute to the process of legislative activity in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by submitting amendments to certain laws. I ask you to understand certain requirements due to the fact that, although DOS has 118 MPs from 120 in the District Assembly, the approach to solving certain problems that are reflected in the assembly activity in Vojvodina, and the adoption of amendments reflects different party approaches and party programmes in solving various issues. In that sense, the AP Vojvodina Assembly, its MPs expect MPs in the Republic Assembly to look closely at these proposals coming from the Vojvodina Assembly, in order to further develop an integrated approach to our common interest, which is the autonomous Vojvodina in democratic Serbia. At the sixth session of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, more specifically on its sequel on 28 May of this year, on the occasion of the discussion of the agenda item - the draft law on privatisation, MPs of the AP Vojvodina adopted most of the votes next amendment - in the proposal for a law on privatisation in Article 3rd, at the end of the sentence, instead of a point of privatisation, the words "except for the privatisation entities established in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, for which the conditions and the process of changing the ownership of social, i.e. state capital will be regulated by the AP Vojvodina". In light of this amendment, I would like to point out this - the privatisation of social and state capital in Serbia must take care of the property rights of the citizens of Vojvodina. Economic and social development by 1990 was not a unique function of the Republic, nor were they unique sources of funding for building economic capacity in Serbia. They're not accurate estimates that you don't know who he is or how he built or created the resources that today are the subject of privatisation. For all estimates of the property rights of the people of Vojvodina, evidence can be found in the decisions of the institutions that have decided on investments and economic and social development of Vojvodina. Some sources of funding and funds for construction were in Serbia without provinces, while others were in provinces, i.e. financial resources for building economic capacities provided only citizens of Vojvodina. Therefore, the privatisation of the property thus created should ensure the same principle, namely that all the consequences of privatisation, both good and bad, are borne by those citizens whose money that property was made. I will also mention the constitutional basis for this amendment of the Vojvodina Assembly to Article 3. A proposal for a privatisation law. The constitutional basis is a member of the 109th point. Three and four. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has been arranged for the Autonomous province to make decisions and general acts in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which regulates certain issues of interest for citizens in the Autonomous province, and implements laws, other regulations and general acts of the Republic of Serbia, whose enforcement is entrusted to the authorities of the Autonomous Province, and lays down regulations for their enforcement. The power conferred on AP Vojvodina to regulate the conditions and procedure of changing the ownership of social, i.e. state capital would not be contrary to the Constitution and the law, as there are a number of examples of powers given to local self-government to determine and provide conditions for various areas in legislative practice. I will only mention the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Community Works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10422	Mr Vojislav Seselj, as representative of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10423	Obviously, this is an open separatist amendment. True, this amendment has not yet been accepted by the Republic government, but DOS is proposing it, on the one hand, and DOS at least temporarily rejects it. What does that mean? This is something that is a problem inside DOS and you should discuss your problem with each other. The DOS in Belgrade cannot bear responsibility for everything DOS does in Vojvodina. The Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot be the exception of responsibility for what the Executive Greater Vojvodina is doing. Obviously, we are buried with a whole series of amendments, not only on this legal project but also on many others, and they are the main ones that are just being announced. They have passed the Vojvodina Assembly, although not yet put on the agenda here, are the full separation of the duchy from Serbia and the formulation of Vojvodina as an unfinished state, which could, in some other phase, count with the help of major forces and independence, if such power remains. The fact that you helped bring open separatists to power there is now not a cause for laughter, but a cause for sadness and grief. Only those who understand nothing laugh. It's usually like this on occasions like this. This requires a statement from the entire DOS and all its leaders. This is primarily a political issue, though reflected in the discussion of the privatisation law. But the privatisation law is one of the key system laws, which cannot remain immune to the political debate of this species. You're avoiding that debate. The more you avoid it, the greater the dangers and confusion among citizens are more intense, more pronounced. What is currently happening in Vojvodina has already brought fear to the people, it is already considering the fate of the Serb people there, already considering what all the great forces are preparing for the Vojvodina, and what methods are they preparing to be realized? You cannot pretend to be blind and deaf before such amendments, you cannot publicly take a stand and cannot bear political consequences unless you react in time, because one of these amendments is the best reason for the immediate disbanding of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and to go to new province elections, and then to check whether the people in Vojvodina wanted to change in order to live better or wanted an open Separatist power that tends to tear it away from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10424	I give my word to Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10425	This amendment cannot be accepted because it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, Article 59. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is determined to regulate the change of property forms, i.e. the privatisation of social property exclusively by law and by Article 109. The constitution of the provinces, thus giving the AP Vojvodina the authority to make only decisions and general acts, and these are not laws. Decisions and general acts cannot regulate the problem of property transformation. That is why the Government has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10426	The word is Mr Pelevic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10427	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers, for the Party of Serbian Unity, this amendment is not acceptable for reasons explained earlier by the honourable Minister Vlahovic. It is good that at least one minister in the government holds the Constitution and the law, since I have already stated in principle that several members of the Constitution of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Company Act and the Law on Change of Social Property have been violated. It is good that, at least in this, our government is acting in principle, because this amendment really cannot be accepted, because it seems to me, if we accept it, that would be the first step towards the independence of Vojvodina in relation to Serbia. Article 6 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly defines Vojvodina as territorial autonomy, and Article 109 says the AP Vojvodina Assembly only makes decisions and general acts, and by no means laws. I think this is a typical example of how the Vojvodina Assembly wants the small door to take a step by step towards separatism and step by step towards separating Vojvodina from the Republic of Serbia. I hope and appeal to all of you that this amendment is not accepted under any circumstances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10428	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10429	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is interesting how some political forces in our society feel threatened in a situation where someone's rights are discussed. But at the same time, they also show little readiness or have done so so far when they were in a more likely political position than this one is present, where obligations must be spoken of. There is no reason why we would agree without comment to accept those political attitudes that were expressed behind this speaker and that would seem comprehensive if the speakers were in masked uniforms. Don't share us anymore and don't scare us anymore, and especially don't defend us, because as you've defended us, we know it best, those citizens you've tried to defend today know best. This isn't 1991, this is 2001, and unfortunately the last ten years have been ten years where citizens have seen examples of your concerns and your ability to solve the problems that exist in our society every day. [[Applause]] The assembly of the AP Vojvodina has shown one initiative, it is anti-constitutional and we make it clear. At the same time, this does not mean that we are distancing ourselves from obligations that have not been resolved for ten years, or running away from a problem that is very serious. The problem will not end with the creation of an independent republic of Vojvodina, even if the foreign forces want it. The problem will deepen, and it will finally show itself in extreme misery. There will be no difference between the Vojvodina, once the economic pillar of our society, and the poorest Serb municipality. Those who have ruined Vojvodina, they have ruined Serbia, and those who are taking away the right of the Vojvodina to think with their own head and to develop, are taking Serbia's right to behave in this way. We, as DOS, will lead a cautious policy, preserve our society. Not everything that makes DOS at the level of Vojvodina and DOS in general, in the last few months, cannot be considered a degradation of our country, quite the opposite. It is good that the duchy parliament comes before the republic's parliament in line with its powers, which insists on certain political initiatives, which leads to a policy it considers to be a policy in the interests of citizens. At the same time, we make it very clear that this time we insist on the Constitution, as we will defend constitutional law in those situations where they go in favour of decisions made by the Vojvodina Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10430	Thank you. We don't have any more sign-ins. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina on Article 3(3). For 14, against 133, abstentions 6, there was no vote of 14, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted this amendment wanting the property that has passed into social and state property through nationalization, confiscation and other unfair forms without compensation, to be exempt and subject to this law. I will give up this amendment, because I have the minister's assurance that according to the same method that the property of the companies is privatized, will not privatise the agricultural land. As long as I'm here, it was just a matter of constitutionality and it's not true that the Vojvodina Assembly has no right to propose an amendment. The Vojvodina Assembly is an authorised legislator, as well as any MP, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps that amendment to the Vojvodina Assembly is contrary to some parts of the Constitution. I have to remind you that the 1990 Constitution was unconstitutional, not in line with the SFRY Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10432	I find that MP Marijan Risticevic gave up the amendment to Article 3, which concludes the procedure for amendments of the MPs. The amendment was submitted to Article 3 of the Fourth Amendment by MP Arsen Kurjački. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry, the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10433	Dear Presidency, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, when I spoke on the principle of this law, I said that the law was acceptable and that we would vote for it in principle, but because of certain failures and ambiguities, we would make amendments and we would try to correct it. We withdrew most of the amendment for the reason that in our conversation with Minister Vlahovic, we came to the common knowledge that they were not needed and he convinced us by force of the arguments that we should withdraw them. There were a few things we couldn't agree on, so these amendments stayed. One of these is this amendment, which refers to goods, i.e. items of privatisation, which cannot be privatised. We felt that it was a very important thing and that it had to be clearly established. Unfortunately, the government has rejected this amendment with a reason that the bill cannot give authority to the Assembly for the adoption of other laws, since those powers can only be established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think this whole argument is legally valid, because it is the Constitution that allows the Assembly to pass legal acts. It's our basic job here, and there's no dispute that one law can state that the Assembly is going to pass another law. So much for a formal-law reason. The essence of this amendment is that it must determine exactly what good is that cannot be privatised. Article 3 of Title 4 states - the proposal for privatisation cannot be natural wealth, good in general use, as well as good in general interest. That's the end. It is not clear what natural resources are, which are good in general use and which are good in general interest. In a conversation with Minister Vlahovic, we tried to get to that knowledge. Minister Vlahovic referred us to laws that treat that matter. I got that list, and that's a list of 26 laws. It's a light of regulations that, somewhere smaller, touch these substances somewhere, and it's not clear how it can be very decadent to determine what the subjects of privatisation are. That is why we insist on adding that in this position, to add a point, to add a sentence, that is, continue a sentence that says -- which sets the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by legal act. Why do we insist on this? We believe that when this law is passed, there will be one law, and once we do that privatisation, we will definitely end this problem. In order for that to happen, the law must be clear, it must be determined. So, we have to try not to make it happen that when some new government comes, there's a revision of these things. It's not right if we go back to the same thing, then we'll get back to those dilemmas that we came up with in the previous law we discussed. Therefore, we must determine which of these are good. It's been said a lot lately about the protein cement factory. What's the subject of privatisation is whether it's just factory facilities or the environment without which the factory can't function. Is it natural wealth, whether it's a matter of privatisation or not, whether natural resources are national parks, whether they're good from the general use of the power plant, and all that else that took part in our lives and in our economy? We think it must be clearly defined. Our friends at the Colubara say that recently some of the mechanics, informal conversations, have led to some things, and neither has anyone been able to lead, nor why they're leading. Are Colubary boilers a natural wealth, whether they fall under privatisation or not? So these are things that we need to make clear and loud, so there are no dilemmas. We messengers will not know which are good, and how only when the people will ask us tomorrow if it is privatized. How are we gonna answer that? So, we think that if there are no hidden intentions, there's no reason to avoid this and clearly and loudly state what good is that they can't be privatized.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10434	Five minutes, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10435	So, if it had been here that this would have been determined by the government by its regulation before the privatisation began, it would have been absolutely acceptable. This isn't how it stands, and I think we have to insist that it is properly regulated so that we're all clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10436	Do any of the other senior MPs want a word? Marko Culibrk, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10437	We understand that within DOS there are more parties, but there is only one parliamentary club. We simply don't want to participate within DOS division, let them agree on how to work. In protest that they have no unity over these significant national interests, except when it comes to the extradition and adoption of constitutional, non-constitutional provisions and extradition of our people, we withdraw from the Assembly. Thank you. (SPS emissaries leaving the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10438	It is the right of the MPs to decide at what time they will leave the assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to continue the search in detail. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10439	This member of the law applies, first of all, to Article 60. The Constitution of Serbia. It prohibits natural resources and good in general use, as good of general interest, and city building land being privatised, they must remain in state or social property under this Constitution. This member of the Constitution had to change. I don't think that constitutional change was either difficult or inconclusive, but it would be very significant. Why? Because, first of all, it's about city building land. Serious privatisation is impossible, not to privatise city building land, at least one that has long been given for permanent use. It is pointless that something given for permanent use, or for use for 99 years remains formally state or social. It is one of the nonsense of an existing constitution that would have made this constitution change for a long time, but so far there has been no good will and no consensus on these important constitutional changes was possible. In the case of Article 3, Article 4, which is subject to the amendment, things are not clear enough and that is a fact. For example, the issue of licensing and concessions is not covered. Both licenses and concessions concern natural resources. It's not regulated at all, although it's a time-limited use. You give a license or a concession to explore oil, for example, or some ore, and then you make an agreement -- you will jointly exploit or whoever finds it will exploit under these and those conditions, within that and that time period. Not even a phone company could be privatised without changing this member of the Constitution. It is not entirely privatized, but only 49% because the phone company is based on the use of frequencies. If this provision of the Constitution is consistently interpreted, they cannot privatise the sphere of radio production, the sphere of television broadcasting; all frequencies are state wealth. This is another sign that those who write laws do not have enough adequate professional education and that they do not take care of the norms that are already in circulation within the legal order. Many things, if strictly interpreted by the Constitution, could not be privatized by now. No private television could survive as long as there is a member of 60. The constitution, because frequency is one of the basic natural resources. There is no concession in the right sense of words. The concession is a form of privatisation, temporarily, because one who uses the concession and has rights that analogly correspond to their own rights, except that they are limited to a certain period of time. As there are restrictions on the realisation of clean property rights, such restrictions exist in the exercise of concessionaire rights or the right of the licensee. A license is one of the property rights, such as copyright, property rights, and that famous... is property law. These are many property rights within a special branch of law and worldwide recognised. Our Constitution is not adapted, and the writers of the new laws obviously don't care enough about it, because if they had, they would have worked out a member, or Article 3. The Privatisation Law proposal and exactly what a natural wealth is, what good it is in general, and under what conditions can it be done, and what it can't, taking into account, of course, that it is in line with the law. Like this, you give rights, for example. for the construction of vital traffic and their exploitation within a specified time limit. Exploitation of these traffic facilities within a certain time limit is also property law, property law, and that on all grounds. When the Constitution is strictly interpreted, it couldn't do it at all. We know that it must in a certain variant, but how, should, if the government has experts to consider and find a solution, and if the government has no experts there are experts outside the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10440	Five minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10441	... So they could help, the government could, and if it had abdicated, surely they'd have come better in its place, couldn't have been any worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10442	The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10443	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, should not doubt that it will come better, it should always be so, and if it was so on September 24 and December 23rd, I believe it will be in the future. This area is very important and I think it is the right solution for the Government to further explain, above all, the methodology to apply already existing legal regulations. Except for the laws on the basis of which public enterprises have been established, which also treat their members with this issue, at this point in Serbia and the SRJ have 26 laws that very carefully determine the rights and obligations in the area of goods of general interest, i.e. areas of natural wealth. It is about the Law on Assets of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Foreign Investments, the Law on concessions, the Law on Roads, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Transport and Road Traffic, the Law on Railways, on municipal activities, on waters, on fishing, on forests, on hunting, on water regimes, on hydrometeorological affairs of interest for the whole country, on transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons, on mining, on transport, on water distribution and use of natural gas, etc. A very precise one has been defined more than a large area. I think it is impossible to expect that one member can regulate something that regulates 26 laws at this time, but I think it is necessary for the Government to remove any possible ambiguities that may arise from problematic interpretation and confusion that may follow mutually opposed laws and that this is a good way to protect the interests and interests of citizens. Otherwise, anything that would be contrary to the Constitution is not acceptable to us, as the parliamentary majority of DOS, but it is especially unacceptable for us to conduct a policy that would confront citizens' interests. So, natural resources are something that is spent irreparably and one mistake, certainly, in this area of our political action, should not happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10444	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10445	I must thank all MPs who have delivered their amendments with the intention of constructively improving this law. At the same time, without going into formal-technical reasons, this amendment to the Couriacki MPs is indeed a constructive approach to improving the law and removing some of the dilemmas that exist. However, we have already said that 26 laws regulate what is a natural wealth, or what is good in general use, and that is why I really think, in front of the Government, that this should be prejudicially determined by the regulation, because it is the need for those relevant members who are related to the natural wealth and the good of general interest to concentrate in one place, within the framework of the regulation. I guess that way we can also contribute to construction, and on the other hand, make it possible that the law does not depend on some next law that may only be passed in the fall. As far as concessions are concerned, concessions are not privatisation methods. Concession isn't privatisation. Privatisation is a transfer of one form of capital, most often state-owned, in all countries, to a private form of capital. In our case, we also have this form of social capital. Concession in any form is the right of temporary use and exploitation, most often natural wealth, and that is why there is a Law on concessions that regulate this matter. I repeat once again that concessions are not privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10446	The People's Messenger Arsen the Qur'an has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10447	I am unusually glad that the ministers who are taking part in the debate in the Assembly have finally appeared, along with us, to investigate all the laws, and that is the only way to pass the right laws. It's extremely important that when the minister comes out and makes a public commitment to something, I think we should trust that. So, if the minister said the regulation would solve this problem in terms of taxing and that the regulation would be adopted before the privatisation begins, in this case I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10448	I thank the People's MP Arsen Kurjak, and I find that the amendment to Article 3(4) is no longer the subject of a search in particular for withdrawal from the procedure. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Jon Cismash. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? I find that MP Jon Cheese you give up and withdraws the amendment to Article 3, which is no longer the subject of a search procedure in particular. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest in Article 4, that the subject be deleted under regular number one and that is the Privatisation Agency. For what? First of all, there is a question of the necessity of establishing specific institutions in order to implement the privatisation process, especially given that the establishment of such institutions requires the security of financial resources. First of all, it's about the so-called. transaction costs. However, the creation of institutions whose activities can primarily coincide with the combined activities of the action fund and the central register is, in any case, excessive. The issue of selecting personnel and personnel solutions at the Privatisation Agency will certainly be the sight of a new bureaucracy, which will certainly promote, implement and control the privatisation process from business to business, which indicates that the way in which the privatisation is promoted and initiated will be such that sound companies will be able to buy first and foremost the Agency's favors, while the businesses that do bad business will be left at the mercy of the Agency. So it's not market rules, it's limited decision-making factors. It is planned, above all, that most of the privatisation takes place through this agency, but the process and way of privatisation as well as the Agency's jobs are given only in principle, without any criteria. There is a great freedom left to the Agency itself in determining the privatisation method to be applied in the privatisation of a particular company, and in determining the need for restructuring in the privatisation and implementation of the procedure itself. The basic methods, which will be implemented and the sale of capital or assets of the company (mainly I mean a public tender and a public auction), are not a word, only the Privatisation Act states that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be closer to prescribing the process of selling capital through a public tender and public auction, but is not listed either when or how. The agency even proposes to the tender commission the choice of the most favourable offer, without listing any criteria and conditions on the basis of which the agency assesses the tenders submitted and proposes to the Commission the choice of the most favourable offer. The agency even organises an action sale process transferred to the action fund. In carrying out control operations, the Agency controls the estimated value of capital, and the way it works is unknown. There are also funds controlled in the sales and execution of the sales contract, but it is not controlled whether a social programme is being implemented, whether the selected strategic partner has at all this social programme and whether the continuity of production is ensured, whether measures are taken to protect the environment. The goal of setting up such an agency is not to protect the interests of the state, but to take full control of the privatisation process in the Republic of Serbia, in which the crucial role, above all, will be played by foreign sponsors and donors, who are primarily interested in buying our businesses at low prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10450	There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10451	The amendment by MP Dr Cvetanovic points to one problem, which was mentioned in the general debate, which Minister Vlahovic simply did not react to. This privatisation is general, mandatory, and armed. She was married for four years, was she that old? And there are 10,000 legal entities in social and state property, which must be privatised in those four years. It can't be done by the agency, it can't be an action fund, it can't be the central register you called a subject, and I don't know how one registry can be a subject. You, writing this article, haven't thought about what a subject is. The privatisation entity is the Government, and these would be certain privatisation bodies, with their rights and obligations, and the central register is one auxiliary body. It registers, can't be a subject, can't be an organ. The register is a register. Your register is like a register of casa. Let me explain this simply - in the register you register where privatisation was made, what percentage of shares are sold, what percentage of shares are free divided, who are the owners of shares, how many shares are left, etc. It's in the Register Act. Now, what do you miss most here? Since it is impossible for the government and its agency to privatise 10,000 companies in four years, some other entities had to be introduced into the game. The simplest thing was ( since, apparently, there is general agreement that this should) increase the jurisdiction of local self-government. Earlier laws have reduced jurisdiction over the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Now that Kosovo and Metohija are occupied, the rest of Serbia can boost the competencies of local self-government. In many issues, it is desirable, not where Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic would like it, that each municipality has its own police force, because it would only be a mess in Serbia, but the authorities of local self-government should have introduced the privatisation process, with appropriate powers and certain powers. For example, that municipalities, or executive boards of municipalities, such as the PandanVlads of Serbia, are privatising all social enterprises that have up to 100 employees, or 150, is not important at all, it is important here to make sense, and that they then carry out privatisation tasks, that they are motivated to carry out this privatisation as successfully as possible, to have material stimulants, so that one percent of the company's sales would go into the municipal budget, into the dedicated utility building fund, and that government authorities only exercise external control -- whether there were violations of the law, whether everything was properly implemented etc. A different privatisation cannot be carried out unless you really aim at what is more speculating in the press, to privatize 10-20 of the most attractive companies, for which one solid amount of money can be immediately obtained, to be a pure jag for that money, and not to worry at all whether the privatisation will be done by the end, will this period of four years be respected, and is it possible in this way to complete it? Secondly, Minister Vlahovic spoke about some regulations earlier. You know, there used to be some big shouts at so-called. The monopoly regulation, in the past period, all opposition parties criticised it in time, and even the SRS, and it turned out that without that regulation, it simply could not have acted in a society that was blocked outside, under sanctions, etc. The regulation was an exception, and today it was a question of whether it was in accordance with the Constitution, but it was useful at the time. The principle of usefulness must not exceed the principle of constitutionality, to be more important than the principle of constitutionality. However, you have now begun to prepare regulations for all things. Where you haven't thoughtfully written legal texts, promise the National Assembly - the government will bring the regulation. It can't be an order to replace the law under normal social circumstances. The regulation can replace the law under conditions of war, of direct war danger and of emergency. In a regular state, and hopefully it's still a regular state, who knows what else we can handle, the regulations can't be passed, to regulate these issues that have been discussed here in the privatisation law. It can't be regulations to determine that you didn't arrive or that you didn't know how to write in law. This must be in the law, and regulations only apply to national law enforcement bodies, not to regulations to prescribe obligations for citizens. You have no right to do so under the Constitution. Obligations to citizens and legal entities can only be prescribed by law. So, the decisions of the legislative body of the National Assembly, and what you can prescribe by regulations, concerns civil servants, concerns the state-run apparatus of the executive authority that is in the government's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10452	He has the word Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10453	If we understand each other correctly, the regulation that we're talking about only has the task of projecting in one place, describing - what is good for the general interest and what are natural wealth, nothing more. Since it is in 26 different laws, for the sake of transparency it should stand in one place, and I agree with MP Kurjački. As for the number of privatisation entities, i.e. companies that will be privatised under the provisions of this law, I must say once again that you are not afraid that the agency will not be able to accommodate that 7,000 privatisation entities transform, or privatise, for the simple reason that the agencies will initiate, only conduct tender privatisation. The privatisation of those companies that will be sold by the auction method, the agency only controls and organises the auction, in a narrow sense. Everything else is decentralised at the level of the company and there is a balance between central governance and the implementation of privatisation, and decentralised initiatives at the level of the company. Anyone who has read the law from the beginning to the end, not only the Privatisation Act, but also the Privatisation Agency, has understood the link that exists between the agency, the subject, between stimulant and stimulating scheme, we give through free distributions, and it is clear that the agency has no intention to organise and implement the privatisation of all 7,000 privatisation entities. As regards the need for the agency to be independent, this is directly linked to one of the basic principles of this law, which is the principle of transparency, i.e. visibility in the positive sense of all privatisation processes. In order not to let the government carry out and the government controls itself, we have an independent entity, which is the Privatisation Agency that initiates, promotes, implements and controls privatisation, and the Government, or the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, and hopefully, this assembly is controlled by the entity that conducts the privatisation. It's the only way we have a clear division of roles. We have a clear division of responsibility between the subjects. When one entity implements privatisation and controls itself - there is no transparency and there is no visibility in the positive sense of the privatisation process and therefore it is necessary for the Agency to be a special subject of privatisation and that there is a law on the Privatisation Agency, on the basis of which the Agency will be established. It's not, gentlemen, an increase in bureaucracy. Because there will be no bureaucrats who will be stamped, there will be a professionally competent firm that has 65 people to start with and we count, according to the needs, that we will have up to 200 employees, and which, exactly, will be financed on the basis of: A-own incomes, and B-donations, but not donations from companies that we already have from the World Bank, donations from bilateral agencies for international co-operation with which we have already signed contracts. Therefore, there is no danger that he who is a donor should participate in the privatisation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10454	If no one is answering for a word anymore, I would like to put the amendments to article 4 submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. For 21, there were no 102 abstentions, no 24 votes, a total of 147 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Here you are, MP Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10455	Obviously, there are no conditions for the work of the Assembly. There's no quorum. According to article 80, please check for quorum. I would ask colleagues who have left cards, or congregation service, to pick up these cards, since they are colleagues outside of these rooms.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10456	I ask the MPs not to speak in benches, and the MP who points to a violation of the Rules of Procedure should know that this is given as a warning to the President of the Assembly, not to call directly from the speaker, because he does not have that authority. It's got to be order. So, I ask the MPs to identify whether there is a quorum of 126 MPs for the work of the National Assembly. Here you go. I ask the MPs to enter into this procedural business of putting in a card no emotion, no further suggestions without requiring such a proposal when we have a quorum. We have a quorum. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10457	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment I have filed is almost the same as before. In addition to the arguments presented by Vojislav Seselj, I will try to appeal to some other arguments to adopt this amendment. The amendment is that the Privatisation Agency, which is a legal person, is deleted. For what? First of all, because it raises the question whether there are at all justifications for the establishment of the Privatisation Agency as a special legal person, since there are already conditions in the ministry regarding technical equipment and personnel to carry out operations in the work of the Agency. The establishment of special institutions and its organisational units, outside of the privatisation headquarters, requires huge financial resources. The Agency has too much authority. At the same time, it initiates, implements, controls the privatisation process. The privatisation process will be carried out practically through this agency, with a crucial role in decision-making being played by foreign sponsors and donors, which will provide funding for the establishment of the Agency. You yourself heard that just now Minister Vlahovic confessed and noted that the World Bank may be the first time in its history to give free aid of $7m to the Privatisation Agency. Since it is a state agency, which should protect the interests of the state in the privatisation process, it will primarily be managed by those who provide the funds for its work and who decide for direct or indirect benefit, since they are interested in buying businesses in Serbia. Therefore, a logical question arises who will then protect the interests of the state in the privatisation process, especially given the fact that the supervisory role of the ministry is of formal nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10458	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? Here you are, Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10459	A short time ago, Minister Vlahovic admitted that there are 7,000 enterprises in social and state property, to which the law applies. There must be more than 7,000 of them. Whether 8 or 9 is the question, but it must be more than 7 grand. I've rounded that up to 10 grand, but let's just say it's only 7 grand. In these four years, as far as the privatisation law applies, during which time all the companies to which the law applies should be privatised, there are around 1,044 working days. This means that in one working day, the Agency should serve 7 companies, as it says in Article 5, to promote, initiate, implement and control the privatisation process in accordance with this law. It's impossible to do seriously. It's possible that such pro-forms are pounding stamps and being said - drive on, etc. Secondly, Minister Vlahovic boasts here that the government has provided donations to the World Bank, which will be financed by the agency. As much as my memory serves, Minister Vlahovic traveled around the world quite a bit and could learn that there is no free cheese anywhere in the West except in a mouse hunter. There's no ninja anywhere else for free cheese. What they call a donation from the West is always true, precisely calculated to produce a certain interest. We know what the interest is, both the IMF and the World Bank. This has been experienced by the entire Eastern Europe. We have a minister who was the closest associate and advisor to Anatoli Chubis. It's Minister Djelic. I guess you were here when he stuttered about that period of his life. What the World Bank has done in Eastern Europe, I guess our goal is to avoid it here, not to let it happen again. The most difficult price was paid by Russia, Ukraine, Romania, Bulgaria, etc. Hungary and the Czech Republic went a little better, for reasons that are not economic but, above all, political nature. But it's obvious from the Western force policy that we can only think worse than Russia, Ukraine, Romania and Bulgaria think, and not better, especially that they never treated us the same way they treated the Czech Republic and Hungary. Therefore, this law must not normably regulate and produce something that cannot be achieved in practice. If we already know in advance that this agency can't do all the entrusted jobs and that the legal task is fulfilled, that in four years' time the privatisation is complete, then we need to look for another solution. I don't know why you, who hold power in almost all municipalities in Serbia, are avoiding the jurisdiction of municipalities also in the field of privatisation and that municipalities can spend up to 100 employees. Or you know your staff in these municipalities, which is why you're running away from this new obligation and responsibility, and that's probably the main reason, so you can't trust your people. I'd have the courage to get into this, because if the people wanted exactly the kind of local government they chose in the last election, then some consequences must be borne. As the people objectively wanted DOS power, so now they suffer consequences and regrets because of these consequences, but the people have the opportunity to correct the mistake in the next election. All the mistakes of the local government people can one day correct. But in principle, local authorities should also be given these powers, and the Agency will have many obligations and control over how local authorities do it. (President: Time. ) People from the Agency cannot arrive for these four years, nor can they visit all municipalities in Serbia, nor can they get acquainted with all these companies, especially if someone makes them remember only the names of 7,000 companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10460	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10461	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, makes sense in this, as well as in the claim that it doesn't matter whether it privatises 7, 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 9, or 10,000 enterprises. If we take a closer look at the argument on which this amendment rests, we will see that this argument stems from that political concept that has just come up with the idea of local self-government and that local self-government has taken away all sorts of rights. Between 1998 and 2000, practically, we didn't have local self-government. The reasons for such a thing are very clear, because local self-government is the form of an executive government operating at the level of the nearest citizens. Accordingly, citizens have chosen this local self-government that was not at will for those who today advocate a great freedom of local self-government. When a law is passed on local self-government, which is in preparation and which is only due to the slowness of this parliament is not yet in the process, we will be able to define both the rights and obligations of local self-government and economic policy. At this point, that policy is being created by the Republic Government. There are clear reasons why the government decided on such a kind of policy. The Prime Minister also spoke of them, and several times also spoke of the resolute minister. They are by no means a degradation of local self-government or people who are currently exercising local authority. We already know under what circumstances they took over that kind of work on themselves. It is clear that, certainly, they are doing the job in a quality way and that they will do it even better when they are given a more liberal law. The Privatisation Act is not a law that will in this way correspond to local self-government. The privatisation agency currently has a central office in Belgrade and two offices, one in Kosovo's Mitrovica, the other in Novi Sad, with a clear definition of forming regional privatisation agencies, which would then take over all the real-estate jobs stemming from this law. Everything else, in itself, does not make any sense, nor does it function as a correction of this law towards its improvement that we need and that we accept through certain amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10462	The word has Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10463	The people righted a mistake in the last election, and I thank the people for that. As for the agency's ability to carry out seven and a half thousand privatisation procedures, I would like to point out once again, only 150 tender privatisation procedures are conducted. One year you can open all 150 tender privatisation procedures, because once again I say, when you read the law on the privatisation agency, you can see that the agency can engage domestic or foreign legal or natural persons who, among other things, will participate in the process of implementation as financial or legal advisers. As far as auction privatisation is concerned, the company is conducting the auction privatisation process, and the Agency is only organising it. Experience tells me that one auction lasts at most 30 minutes, in the narrow sense of that word, so the auction organization itself. At least ten auctions can be made during one day. In one year you can make two and a half thousand auctions. I assure you, as well as the public that the Privatisation Agency will work not five days a week, will not celebrate every holiday, but will work 24 hours a day, so that this project will bring economic growth and bring social stability to this country. So much for that. As for the very essence of the amendment - that one subject cannot initiate, promote, implement and control at the same time - can, since it controls the privatisation process and the Agency does not control itself. The Agency's control shall be carried out by other entities. In this lies the secret of transparency, i.e. visibility, in a positive way, in well-separated roles, based on similar processes already implemented in other Eastern European countries. As far as donor funding is concerned, we should be honored to be the first country the World Bank has first supported without credit for the first time in this single-word project called the development of the private sector. Because it's not just the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, it's the development of the private sector, it's privatisation. Donor funds shall in no case be obliged by the Agency to implement the privatisation process. On the contrary, with the World Bank, the IMF, the European Bank, bilateral organisations, such as the DFID, the GTZ, we send an invitation to investors that this is the environment in which we should invest. I'm very proud of that fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10464	Thank you. We don't have any more sign-ins. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by Goran Cvetanovic on Article 5. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 17, there were no abstentions against 119, there were no 11 votes, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Željko Tomic, Arsen Kurjački, Petar Majarevic, Dragan Maršićin, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Šormaz, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Lazić, Milan Ernjaković, Filip Golubović, Dusan Tubić, Sladjan Mijalović, Predrag Mijailović, Tomislav Kitanovic and Radmilo Milosevic. The Government, the Finance Committee, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the representative give up? Have you appointed a representative of a group of applicants? Yeah. ) Mr. Dejan Michael's resignation, so I find that the amendment is considered withdrawn. The amendment has been withdrawn. And based on the finding of MP Dejan Mihajlov, as a representative of the group of promoters. On Article 5, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want to say? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10465	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, those who have no confidence in the government when they write amendments, and gain confidence in the government while the amendments are under discussion, can imagine what's going on with their trust, and I can see that your voice options are still enough for you to throw out an MP who comes out for a pay phone. (From O.R.: Theme) Therefore, the government provided in Article 5(1) that "the Privatisation Agency is a legal person who promotes, initiates, implements and controls the privatisation process in accordance with the law". A large number of MPs noticed that something was disturbing and that there was a conflict between execution, implementation and control. Or that one door closes to the public's eyes, and it's an extremely important procedure, a privatisation that is the basis for survival, I think, and our country as a whole. What kind of agency conducts the privatisation process, controls the implementation of the privatisation process? Then why is the Government a member of 62? The bill provided for supervision of the application of the provisions of this law and of the rules adopted pursuant to it by the Ministry of Privatisation Affairs. What exactly is behind the bill and under which one agency will promote and initiate, implement and determine whether it has been implemented in accordance with the law. Is there any other organ in this country that has been given so much authority? The government of the Republic of Serbia does not have the authority to initiate, implement and control something. Because it has additional control over it, which is at least the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as it says in the Constitution; it rarely allows the National Assembly to control the government. The legislator says that in fact this refers only to the control of the privatisation process, not to the control of the Agency's own work. And the Agency is conducting a privatisation. Well, whose work controls it, if not the one who conducts the privatisation, which means the Agency. There's a lot of stuff hidden in there -- so these donor assets, which are being talked about here, that are being assigned to the Agency and that will no longer be subject to any control. You know, capital logic means profit on every dollar invested, and even on donations and sponsorships, and these are just specific types of investments. Donation is investment. Someone's behind it. Someone interested has raised that money to give it here, but it will rightly demand that his money be fertilized. We'd like to see who's gonna control it all. Let the privatisation process run, let the agency do their job, let the register do its job, and that's one smaller personal computer. But we're interested in who's gonna control it all. You can't -- the cadiya's suing you, the cadiya's judging you. The agency can't work and at the end of the day we've been working in accordance with the law. Does that lead to corruption, bribery, law enforcement? People come with money, and it's much simpler for them to give an individual one percent of the money that needs to be given to the state. We saw that on the case of political parties. It was much easier for America to invest $70m in DOS leaders and leaders than to invest 2.3 billion in Serbia. If she had invested 2 or 3 billion, if she had given Serbia 2 or 3 billion, this authority that has been in power over the past ten years or a day would not have been in power. But investment in individuals in Eastern and European countries has always paid off, because they haven't thought about whether the country and the people they lead will disappear, and DOS is an obvious example of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10466	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is truly amazing what the Serbian government is doing and what Minister Vlahovic is doing. The minister just said the Agency won't control itself. But there is no provision laying down the procedure for control of the Agency's work. When responding to the amendment submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic, the government says it will exercise control through the appointed supervisory board. This is really amazing. The law on the Privatisation Agency states exactly what the Supervisory Board is doing - reviewing the final account on the Business Report, determining whether they are made up in accordance with the regulations, bringing in rules on work, doing other jobs. We know, in our legal system, what the Supervisory Board is doing. The Naughty Committee controls the availability of money from the budget to work, to pay officials, to pay material costs, to pay electricity, to water, to furniture, to obtain photocopying paper, toilet paper, etc. who use employees at the Agency. The Supervisory Board cannot control the Agency's activities in the privatisation process. It's not the board's job. Then don't answer to Tomislav Nikolic that the government will control the Agency through that supervisory board. You do not have an agency control mechanism in law at all, which is necessary for the reason that Minister Vlahovic says the Agency can hire foreign and natural and legal persons, advise and assist her in the business. That's what we're most afraid of. They're going to rob our country, you're going to pack your bags and run away, and what are we going to do here afterwards? This calls for control of the Agency's work, at any time, to be able to control any procedure concerning the Agency's work on the privatisation of the firm. I'm not interested in controlling the consumption of toilet paper that the Agency gets for its employees, nor in your electricity bill, for the phone, etc., may interest me, but not to the extent that your work in privatising some of the biggest social enterprises in this country. How many funny things happen here is an example of Cedomir Jovanovic coming out for this pay phone, and you listen to him, here he says that local self-government is the form of executive authority. That's terrible, that's amazing. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the scene: You are not normal. There's a book, there's a book to read, there's something to know, I guess there's a couple of books to read, so come out for this pay phone, and not someone who's never read a book, comes in here, comes in here and bangs, bangs, bangs, nuts, doesn't know what he's saying. One more thing, said Cedomir Jovanovic... (Micovic Zoran, from the scene: He didn't write any books. He'll write, he'll write slowly. According to Cedomir Jovanovic, the government already has a law on local self-government ready, but did not put it in the process because it cannot be done...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10468	Mr. Seselj, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10469	I'm going back on the subject, as far as this law and this member is concerned. Look, it's about the Agency. You can't talk about the Agency, not talk about a possible increase in the jurisdiction of local self-government because the Agency can't do all the work that the law provides. He says it was impossible because of the obstruction in the congregation. There's no obstruction here except for DOS. This DOS is the only way to obstruct because of the uninterrupted Assembly because of you cubes with quorum. It takes a congregation majority to provide it, and we need to love you every time you don't have a quorum, so the public sees how seriously you treat your other duties. In the National Assembly of the Kingdom of Serbia, the laws were read, so it was the first reading, then the second reading, and so on. and the submission of the amendment, and the determination. The legal procedure was much slower, but the Kingdom of Serbia had very good laws. Because she first hired good lawyers to write laws, because the ministers' wives could not be hired as secretaries of the legislature, as the wife of Minister Zivkovic, the professors of the university, but also excellent lecturers, language experts, etc., and then came out to the National Assembly only to...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10470	Mr. Seselj, time and theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10471	Here I am, and if the various authorities gave their opinion that the law was good enough to come before the MPs, then one reading, then another reading, then oral submission of amendments, and then discussion of amendments, etc. You devalue the work of the National Assembly and complain about the opposition that is seriously preparing and discussing each member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10472	Mr. Seselj, let me just tell you, since you pointed out your comment on the quorum. The quorum is required to provide all MPs. The quorum is provided for the work of the National Assembly, not some parliamentary groups. You know that very well. You don't have the Rules of Procedure, let's get the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10473	You cannot interpret the Rules of Procedure as you wish. First, the National Assembly does not exist without a quorum. Now some say that there is a federal government without quorum, it does not need a quorum for the federal government to vote on that non-constitutional regulation. The National Assembly (you ask which member, you know, something that the notor fact doesn't have to prove) doesn't exist without a quorum. To begin the work of the National Assembly, a quorum must be provided. In principle, all MPs are required, but there is no sanctions, and you can only hate the opposition which the opposition will not help you with the security of the quorum. Your hatred against the opposition is the only sanction for the opposition. You're in front of the public, since you're 176, you've got to keep accounts of why you're not 126 in the congregation benches. How come the MPs avoid staying in the National Assembly Hall, you're afraid of this gathering of people outside of these rallys, or there's some other reason, or you deliberately obstruct the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10474	I remain in my reply that the MPs are obliged to identify and that they are all obliged to participate in the quorum for the work of the National Assembly. You know it's mandatory under Article 113. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Stanko Kovacevic. Is it according to the Rules of Procedure? (Stanko Kovacevic, from the post: Not according to the Rules of Procedure, but the Committee on Industry. ) The Committee on Industry, please, as rapporteur of the Committee on Industry, Mr Stanko Kovacevic. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. I gave my word. You'll get it as soon as the previous speaker is finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10475	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, the Committee on Industry, opting not to accept the proposed amendment, has been defined for the following reasons. The objection that the Agency has too many powers, including the authority to exercise and control or monitor the implementation of the privatisation business, has been seen by the Committee on Industry only as a first-degree control body of the privatisation process. There are two more above the Agency, and there may be three more levels of control, and there is no fear expressed in this amendment that due to the addition and the part of the control of the privatisation process in business entities, this will be misused. For these reasons, the Committee on Industry rejected the amendment of the MP. I don't think the MPs of this assembly should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10476	Thanks, who's going to do business now? Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10477	This is really amazing how you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Instead of transferring us to the fact that sometimes we don't follow the Rules of Procedure, according to Article 134 paragraph 2, when a debate is being held in particular, the order of those who can talk about the amendment is listed. The Committee's rapporteur is scheduled to discuss the amendment. When we received the opinion of the Committee, Zivica Predojeva, president of the Committee, was designated rapporteur. Is this white gentleman who was before me, Zivica Predojev? I have to ask. This was a falsification of the official I.D., did you and Liver Predoje's card go out for this pay phone?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10478	Please, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10479	This is the worst abuse of official documents. Let's get you guys into these registration units, now you're acting as individuals, so you go out for a pay phone. What will be the relationship with you now in your houses, where you, the gentleman who was before me, where are you going today, to which house, to the house of Liver Predovoje or to your house?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10480	National MP Stanko Kovacevic has the authority as rapporteur of the Committee on Industry, as vice-president of the Committee to speak. What's there to talk about, you know that very well. Right on line, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10481	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I once spoke to you about the court madmen, the role that the court's crazy played throughout history, and an obvious case of revolution. A revolution from the court's crazy to the organization of court freaks. I ask the parliamentary majority in this House not to let the court madmen get their own institution. Serbia's Parliament for 60 years was not the place where responsible decisions were made, and it is impossible to make responsible decisions in an irresponsible atmosphere. That's why I have to replicate Mr. Seselj. I was talking about local government, not local self-government, but we can also talk about local self-government and local self-government authorities, executive authorities. I guess Mr. Seselj didn't understand me because I wasn't yelling, but there's no reason for that kind of behavior, because we're not in a house with nine bedrooms or a two-hectare apartment, where people get used to each other to hear each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10482	According to the Rules of Procedure, but it's not the basis for the right to replicate, just so you know. So you're going to specify which member and explain how hurt he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10483	According to the Rules of Procedure, all MPs are obliged to treat each other with respect. I'll pull my replica commercial if you say here in front of the National Assembly that it's mutual respect when Cedomir Jovanovic calls someone a court freak. If you say it's a show of respect, then I'll withdraw my advertising from the Rules of Procedure and I won't insist on a vote. If you don't say so, if you don't say it is with respect, then you will vote and let the assembly majority plead that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure when Cedomir Jovanovic calls me a court fool. Now you're going to vote on it. It is my pride, honor and pleasure when Cedomir Jovanovic calls me a court fool. You know, in order for a man to be a court fool to be qualified, a lot of books have to read, some education to gain. Cedomir Jovanovic, who has not read a single book, cannot even be a court fool. He doesn't even know what he said before. The executive, the local government, it's all the same to him. Now put it to the vote, and let the assembly majority confirm that Cedomir Jovanovic does not violate the Rules of Procedure when he calls me a court nutter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10484	I'm sorry, Mr. Seselj. I didn't even hear that he called you and I'm sorry you recognized yourself in that. I'm putting on a vote that the injured member is 99. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carried out by Mr Vojislav Seselj. For 23, against 91, the abstention of four, was not voted 29, out of 147 MPs. I'm guessing there's no violation of Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have another announcement by the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10485	I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of Article 95, which you, Madam Chairman, have made, because while Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group, advertised and reported to the Rules of Procedure, you have interrupted him by interpreting in your own and your own unique way what a quorum is and who should provide quorum. On the other hand, you are not as the chairman, using the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, used the opportunity to warn Cedomir Jovanovic to address other MPs with respect. He can't even be a court fool, so let's say he's happy, Chad, because as he qualify to court he needs time. We call it happy Chad, and secondly -- that the president of the SRS parliamentary group was right when he said that most DOS majority cannot provide quorum, it is seen when we discuss in particular. Now we have to vote on the amendment, there's not enough of you in the O.R., you have to call these, no matter what the restaurant is closed, but it looks like they've spread all over town and now you've got to get them out of these local cafes. I'm looking for article 80 to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10486	You, Mr. Mircic, advertised Article 80? First, Article 80(2), and this is also an answer to the previous violation of the Rules of Procedure - Quorum for the work of the National Assembly, if more than half of the total number of MPs are present at the session of the National Assembly. That says they're all bound to secure the quorum. Secondly, under Article 80(5): "If the MP raises doubts about the existence of the quorum" - what you have done - "confirmed by the application of the electronic voting system" - and I find that by applying the electronic system, 132 MPs are present in the hall - "the president of the National Assembly puts the computer copy of the present Members of Parliament" I ask the Service to provide computer insight into the presence of MPs and to deliver to the President of the Parliamentary Group which has submitted a request to determine the quorum. We're going back to work. Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment tabled by MP Tomislav Nikolic on Article 5 of position 1 for the vote, and I ask the MPs to plead with the vote. For 20, there were no abstentions against 121, eight of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I find the applicant of the amendment not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Djura Lazic on Article 5, paragraph 1, and I ask the MPs to plead with the vote. For 17, against 120, there were no abstentions, there were no 11 votes, of a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10487	My remark was that Article 7. The bill's not complete, it's not detailed, it's not clear, and it leaves no doubt about how it will be applied. In fact, instead of the word "legal", it was meant to be written in what law, which, by law, determines what the register would look like. Therefore, since it is worth charters, it should be written that it will be registered, that it will be in accordance with the Charter of Values Act. Now, the government has tried two ways to challenge this amendment. First, the central registry business will be regulated by the Central Register Act, which says the process of passing laws is in the process. However, the second part of the government's argument that it should not be stated, and the truth is that in legal technique it can sometimes be a principle, that it should not be stated under what law, because any amendment to that law, as a parent, would also bring the need to change this law, in which it is in some way applied. But if it stays like the government wrote -- in accordance with the law -- it means in accordance with any law, or with any law. Then that even means, maybe in accordance with the Privatisation Act, even though there's nothing more to it. I think it's article 7. The bill of law vaguely, incompletely, a team before it would add words - the Law of Papers of Value, precisely formulate and appearance, and all that should stand in the register. So I think, if the refusal of the amendment was just because I suggested it, that the proposing, which in my eyes has not yet fully eroded its value, should accept this amendment. It's not enough sometimes that a court fool advises you not to accept the amendment. Try to think sometimes about your science, which you obviously have. And the word - the court fool entered the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as a word that offends no one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10488	Please stick to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10489	I stick to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10490	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Please, I will also hand over a copy of the Electronic Voting and Recording Service of the list of MPs present. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10491	First, we have already established that the court's crazy ones are concerned and this law, don't warn anyone anymore, the congregation majority voted that the castles are crazy within this law and that the terming with - court crazy - is common.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10492	I don't know if they're an insult or not, and we didn't vote whether they represented the content of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10493	It represents because you did not warn Cedomir Jovanovic when he spoke of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10494	But it was a straight line to the replica, it doesn't have to stick to the amendment right to the replica, when it uses the right to the replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10495	But he must stick to the subject matter of the debate, and the subject of the debate was not the court's madness, until Cedomir Jovanovic started it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10496	If he's entitled to a replica, he has no obligation to stick to the content of the amendment, you're not right at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10497	How can you get into my word like that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10498	In accordance with Article 98(2), - that's how I get into your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10499	Oh, you can't do that, you didn't read that article right, because you're breaking up with me, and you're not allowed to talk to me. You have the right to warn me if I don't stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10500	I warn you to get back on the subject of talking about the amendment. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10501	But you don't have the right to talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10502	I have the right to interrupt you by Article 98.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10503	You don't. The only way you can get it is if you come out here for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10504	I was just trying to get you back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10505	Well, you don't let me talk at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10506	I'll let you speak, but about the amendment, please, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10507	Then let me speak. How am I supposed to talk, when you keep coming into my word, and I'm not gonna count this time on you. This amendment should be accepted, because it should be clear that the indication of the law applies, because this way, as if the Government were telling us that it would just pass the Act on the Register of Action, on the central register of charters of values to be generated through the privatisation process. There's federal law. You've shown here, passing a whole set of tax laws, that you don't care at all what it says in federal laws. And, the Federal Charter Act of Value is not adapted to this Privatisation Act. You've turned everything upside down. Instead of adapting the republican laws to federal laws, you pass the republican law, and then demand that the federal law be adapted to that republic. We have this in a whole series of examples of tax laws. Here, Minister Vlahovic should declare himself -- how this register can be an entity, that is an essential issue. How can a central record register of value be a subject? This would mean that the birth certificate of the birth entities, that the birth certificate of the marriage entities, is that the birth certificate of the deceased entities. How can the registry be a subject -- a crucial question, to which the minister has been avoiding the answer for days. And as for Cedomir Jovanovic, in my nine rooms I placed a library of about 5,000 books. I am ready to borrow one book at a time to read to Cedomir Jovanovic, and I have evidence that I acquired that property. This is a savings book from the '80s, 1986, 1987, 1989, where checks were registered, based on the sale of books in overseas countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10508	Please, Mr. Seselj, talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10509	Thus, unlike Cedomir Jovanovic, I am also talking about the amendment, and I can go to the National Assembly with light cheeks, and he has to prove where he got that property, when he hasn't even got to college yet to finish, even though he has studied 11 years. That's the difference between us. He can get the books on loan, but one by one, provided that after every book I read, I question him, to see if he actually read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10510	He has the word MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10511	I would ask Mr. Seselj to keep his library to himself, and what he took from the Republic Government, to return to the state. It's 200 books, very rare, which the Republic Administration has been asking him to do without success since the day he left the Republic Government. I don't know how he got the rest of the library, but, uh, a man talks about his life in general. As for the answer to your question, you've never been a professor to me, I wouldn't agree to you as my teacher. I won't account for my schooling, but I'll be ready to answer every question, say, at the University of Pristina, where you were a professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10512	The word has a privatisation minister, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10513	This law is not in conflict with the Charter of Values Act. The law on securities of value cannot prescribe the way in which the central register is kept. The Charter Act of Value doesn't speak a single letter, not one member, as the Central Register is run. And by the way, the central register is not a free collection and stock records. In all countries, the central register is most often organised as a stock company, and in all countries, the central register is directly related to the stock exchange. As you know, the stock market will allow for the transport of these actions. Therefore, a special law is necessary to regulate the work of the central register, and because there may be a change in the name of the law, not on the central register, but on the central deposit, we did not want to enter a specific name of the law, but we referred to a law that would regulate the work of the central register. I would like to remind all MPs that until the central register is established you can find an existing provisional register in the last part of the law which is the role of the provisional register. But at the same time, I'm saying that the central register as an institution had to be established over the past four years, given that the shares in privatisation were broadcast. What is the degree of seriousness and the intention of entering the privatisation of the previous regime, the testimony that four years later there is no institution called the central register. We'll have the central register by the end of the year. This assembly will, hopefully, have the honor to discuss this law and I want to say that the central register is very important for the development of private property, for the development of the private sector and for the security of property, and we will have it by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10514	Since no one is answering for a word under this amendment anymore, I am putting the amendments submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to the vote. For 22, against 105, there were no abstentions, no 11 votes, a total of 138 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10515	First of all, in Article 8, I assume that MP Arsic is therefore asking to delete that member, some of the tasks from the Agency's work domain are being specified, and it is said that the Agency is launching an initiative to implement the privatisation process... Minister, a moment, this is very important. (Minister Vlahovic leaves the hall - I will follow you on the monitor. I don't care about the minister. You can't hear anything in there. There's no tone there for the deaf monitors. Under two, it initiates an initiative to develop a restructuring programme, advertises a prospectus, collects data, performs other tasks, etc. These are the things that are regulated by the Agency's special law. However, what MP Arsic is asking for makes sense, given that the issue of the register is not properly processed in the draft law, and even less in an explanation that the government rejects several amendments from MPs. There's already been a mix-up about what law is going to apply. Whether an existing Charter Act of the value of a federal character or a new federal law to establish a register. The first one makes sense. If the existing Charter Act is to be applied from the value of the federal character, then this law should be in accordance with it, or it should stand a little with the adoption of this law until the existing federal law is changed, so that they do not again come into the situation that the federal law adapts to the Republic rather than vice versa. If a special federal law is to be passed as the Government can promise, how can the creator of this legal project guarantee it? It is something from the aspect of the republican government of Serbia, both legislative and executive, quite uncertain. Something that is uncertain must not be promised through the legal text. Secondly, this is a law implementing privatisation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and not in the territory of the Republic of Montenegro. By adopting this law in practice, there will be two completely different separate privatisation models in Serbia-Montenegro and it is impossible for the federal law to regulate the existence of a single register. If the federal law will establish a register of the values of the privatisation process, then the register must also be federal rather than federal law to determine the essence of the republican registers of the records of the values created in the privatisation process. And as far as Cedomir Jovanovic is concerned, he should know that borrowed books are always being issued by regists, so he can bring those reverses and not lie here in front of the National Assembly. His lies are over everyone's head here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10516	Mr. Seselj, I give you a warning for your insult...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10517	What's the warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10518	Because you've made a lie...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10519	Is it because of the lapels or because of the lies?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10520	Because of the lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10521	Oh, because of the lies. So Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to lie. Okay, and we're going to vote here now, see if the breach of the Rules of Procedure is on your side, because I'm already advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for the college where Cedomir Jovanovic could pass any exam -- you know, he's a little pretentious... He's already at law school...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10522	Mr. Seselj, I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10523	What other warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10524	Because you're not sticking to the subject and you're insulting the president of the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10525	And here you are, first of all, in connection with my advertising on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, put it on the right to vote to see if you have hurt the Rules of Procedure or not, since you have concluded here that Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to lie, and I have no right to say that he is indeed lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10526	I don't even know... In fact, the whole confusion has come because you've identified yourself as the court mad. That you didn't go out on that basis, absolutely, and we voted that it wasn't about you, it was about all the MPs who acted like it. Do you understand? And you're not allowed to act like that. And now, did you ask me to put this to a vote? So, did I violate the Rules of Procedure in Article 99 because I told Mr. Vojislav Seselj that he was a liar and that he was lying. Right? Did I say that right? That he's always lying. I can look at the stenographic notes. Wait, are we going to put Mr. Seselj to the vote? Like you said, tell me. We'll see in the stenographic notes. You've mostly alluded to lying, haven't you? I'm putting it to a vote - whether a violation of article 99 has been committed. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 13, against 102, one abstention, was not voted 18, a total of 134 MPs. I'm finding that there's no breach of Article 99. Mr. Seselj, let me tell you one more time. If he had spoken directly to you, I would have given him a warning, here's a word for it. I'm perfectly safe doing my job, but he really said about all the MPs, so for those of you who play here... That's how I understood it. Since no one's answering for a word anymore... Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10527	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I find that there is no quorum to continue the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10528	Since using the electronic system... We'll wait a little longer. Please, 121 MPs are present, and I ask all present Members of Parliament to insert identification cards under Article 80, paragraph 2, in order to determine the quorum. The electronic count found that 112 MPs were present, but that there were also MPs who did not enter the identification cards, and therefore I set a break of up to 15.30 hours, in accordance with Article 102. [[After break - 15.50.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert your identification cards into the MPs in order to determine the quorum. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 133 MPs attend the session. I find that we have a quorum and we can continue to work on the fourth item of the agenda, by discussing the privatisation law, in particular. The president of the SRS parliamentary group was given the 8th word. It is the amendment of Joce Arsic to Article 8. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Joca Arsic on Article 8. For one, against 112, two abstentions, 15 did not vote, out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 8th by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Vukic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is there was no quorum here this time, and you've informed the entire public there is a quorum. Pay attention to polite and civilized expressions, when you have to throw them away. I just have to point out the fact -- we thought I'd stay here to try to stop you from adopting today everything you intended to adopt without opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We thought I was reporting to the amendments and that's how I speak, but obviously that doesn't mean anything to you, because without a quorum, you're going to say there's enough of you in the O.R. (President: Mr. Wolf, I warn you that you are obliged to speak the truth. I'm telling the truth, and you're not telling the truth. (President: You are violating the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the National Assembly, by saying that neither the service has done the job well nor the electronic system. ( b) You have violated and damaged the dignity of not only the National Assembly, but of the entire state and of the whole nation, so that no one can fix it for you anymore. Just because I'm in the O.R. right now, don't think I'm a little scared of you and that 115 or 110 will scare me in some way. All MPs of the opposition, precisely because of what you are doing these days, have left the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all MPs and the SRS, and the SPS and the SS. I will leave this session, too, so you don't bother, that without opposition, you can adopt on your own, enjoy the dictatorship, rule over your regulations to deliver a kilo of Serbian meat to The Hague tribunal... (President: Mr. Wolf, you've been given the word to speak by amendment, and it's already the third minute.) )......................................................................................................... To do whatever you want, to make your ninth hole a first hole in your play, with your legalists, people who are supposed to protect the Serbian people and the Serbian state. I'm just telling you that you have in mind that everything you're doing and everything you're breaking will also come back to you. That's why today all opposition parliamentary groups, I'm saying this for the public, have made a request to hold extraordinary parliamentary elections at all levels. Then you'll see how well and well you've worked. Be assured that you will accept these requests. If necessary, we will fight for it by all democratic means, not by bogeymen and bulldozers, but if necessary outside parliament. You just keep going and I want you to enjoy your dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10531	Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10532	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have entered this house with the intention of changing our society, but also to show, finally, our relationship with our problems and to our fellow Members what it is we want to live in. The right of the opposition is to criticise the government's work. The right of the opposition is to oppose its views on the parliamentary majority's views. The duty of the parliamentary majority is to respect and respect the opposition. To everything we've done so far, we've demonstrated two of our traits. One is endless tolerance. The second trait is a trait that is not in our favor, which speaks of us as people who do not make the right assessment, nor are they able to assume the consequences of this tolerance. We have done something in the eyes of the citizens today as a circus from the Serbian Parliament. I was talking about court freaks today, and I didn't mention the name, the last name, the parliamentary group, the opposition, or the position. I was talking about an institution. If the opposition wants to lead its fight outside this parliament, it is its political position. We are obliged to do our job the way we started it, to talk about this law and, finally, to give the people the chance to choose. There were elections in September and December, and then the people chose between the Democratic opposition to Serbia, the political coalition of 18 parties and, on the other hand, between false dukes, false generals and false Socialists. One of them here today spoke of a congregation speaker and accused me of being a liar. I'm not obliged to deny his views, but I am obliged to present to you the facts on which I expressed my position. Evidence has been sought. I contribute to a representative of the Serbian Radical Party a memo from the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Authority, asking Mr Seselj to return 160 monographs taken from the Republic government. I'm giving you a contract on the construction of a radical home in Valjevo, the means for the recovery of objects destroyed during the Kolubar County earthquake. I'll remind you that a billion dinars from that fund have been purposelessly spent, that 400 million debts that DOS must repay at this time. I give you the decision of the Red Flag Institute on the donation of the SRS. I'm giving you a contract on the lease of immovable property that the SRS illegally took over by the Magistrat in Zemun. I give you the decision of the public company "The Earth Information Business System", which gives the SRS chairs, tables, photocopier, computer, printer, scanner. I present to you a report of a budget inspection that checked out SO Zemun and identified such irregularities that we cannot talk about here today, because they are the subject of judicial work and judicial evaluations. Here, for example, there's data that the humanitarian fund has paid 100,000 dinars to the Central Fatherland government of the SRS. I give you an overview of the cost of self-serving of the Republic of Serbia's administration. I give you something that is not in your favor and something that takes away your right to criticise us in the way you've done it so far and something that takes away your right to speak on behalf of the Serbian people, even in the name of one kilo as you have mentioned it. You introduced that unit into our lives in 1990. We're trying to part ways with it, we appreciate people, and we don't measure them by kilograms, and every decision we've made has come out of our intention to change our society, counting that there will be room for opposition, and expecting it to be different, than it has been over the past ten years. It is certain that there is no potential or strength in you for such a thing. We won't deal with you, we'll do our job. Like I said, these generals of yours, your dukes, your socialists, we leave them, let's say, trying to solve the consequences that we face today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10533	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Vukic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10534	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I brought you something to quote. Mr. Seselj, of course, unlike what Mr. Jovanovic was talking about, I waited for Mr. Jovanovic to come out to say that I could get the right to a replica, so I'll go out then), he never stole. Here's what he says. It's about an honest man. It's about Mr. Djindjic. I'm quoting, and in 1996, he did an interview with the profile list saying, "I only stole books, because as a student, I didn't have the money to buy them." So much for who stole, how he stole, and how much he stole. As you can see, even the MPs applaud, and if they know this is true. Everything you've said here and everything else you've done, it just shows how nervous your nerves are. You've been carrying out what we've read a hundred thousand times in all the newspapers, heard on all the TVs, and it's not a crime or anything illegal, and you know it. If it was something like that, you'd be totally different. Completely different, because you can deliver Serbs by regulation, you can shoot. I already recommended it. Get a regulation on the shooting of political opponents, and about who everything is and what's fake, so you're all that's fake in Serbia. Everything you said, you lied to the people. Everything's completely different from what you said. You have not fulfilled anything of what you promised the people. You're gonna tell someone if he acted one way or another. You have no patience to listen to a single MP. It's your democracy. For the sake of the public, some curse my mother, and some earn worse things. I don't know what MP it is, but I see him in a brown suit from here, and you might want to pay attention to what you're saying. This congregation is pathetic and sad. The circus is only when you're in it, and you're making it. Here you are today, making your own bad laws and looking forward, like in a circus, and touching yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10535	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. If not, I'll put the amendment to the vote. No one was in favour, against 123, abstentioned no one, voted 10, out of a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevo Dragisic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Stevo Dragisic to article 9. No one was in favour, against 120, abstentioned no one, voted 13, out of a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. Please plead. No one was in favour, against 130, abstentioned no one, voted four, out of a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srda Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10536	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I advertise Article 80 when an MP, even though he acted and violated the Rules of Procedure for this speaker, expressed doubts about television transmission, as well as about citizens watching us, that the Law on Privatisation, the spine of reform in Serbia will be adopted without quorum, I think it is okay to establish a quorum once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10537	Thank you. Please insert identification cards into MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For one, against 125, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of eight, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 10, paragraph 2, he submitted the amendment, and then, in writing, withdrew, MP Mirko Petrovic. I find that amendment has been withdrawn. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 126 abstentions, no one voted eight out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Slobodan Tomovic and Joca Arsic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 124, one was abstentioned, not 10, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Željko Tomic, Arsen Kurjački, Petar Majarevic, Dragan Maršićin, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Šormaz, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Lazić, Milan Ernjaković, Filip Golubović, Dusan Tubić, Sladjan Mijalović, Predrag Mijailović, Tomislav Kitanovic and Radmilo Milosevic. The People's MP, Dejan Mihajlov, is withdrawing the amendment as an applicant for the amendment. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 123, one was abstentioned, no vote was 10, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Amendment bearer, MP George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10538	That amendment is related to Article 41. As far as the contract is concerned, and therefore I draw your attention that it would be good for you to adopt this amendment because it contributes to greater legal certainty, aids the law in a one-time tax on extra profits and extra assets, makes it impossible for those who have come to capital to participate in privatisation until the obligations are met. Therefore, I cannot, on the one hand, support the Single Tax Act without supporting it here in the same way, so I ask you to respect these reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10539	The word has a minister of economy and privatisation, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10540	As a representative of the government's proposings, I believe this amendment should be accepted, as it will certainly prevent speculative capital from emerging during privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10541	Since the Prime Minister has accepted this amendment, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the proposal. There's got to be a vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 128, no one, abstentioned one, voted six out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment to Article 12, which was submitted by MP George Mamula. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Lazar Marjanski and Miroljub Veljkovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 127, one was abstentioned, not seven, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 128, one abstentioned, five out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. He submitted to Article 13 of the amendment, and then pulled MP Zeljko Tomic along the written path. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted for it, against 126, one was abstentioned, no vote was made by 8 of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 111 abstentions, five did not vote 18, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14th, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 125, with one abstention, voted 8 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 128, abstained one, voted 6, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 125, with one abstention, voted 10 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one voted against 124 abstentions, no one voted 12 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. He submitted to Article 14 of the amendment, and then pulled the MP Mirko Petrovic along the written path. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Dragan Colic, Petar Jojic and Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic wrote to withdraw this amendment, but since the other amendments to the other MPs have to be voted on. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 and point 8 above the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Vlasimir Budimovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is by MP Vlasimir Budimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10542	Let's break the monotony a little bit. I deliberately did not withdraw this amendment in normal regulation, for the reason that I wanted to go out and at this point withdraw, and to thank the government and the minister for the whole procedure of adopting this law, through a very extensive discussion and an analysis of all those amendments that we had. I think it's the right way and the right way to make laws. I'm taking this opportunity to thank you for all those hours I've spent and withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10543	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I find that the amendment has been withdrawn. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Željko Tomic, Arsen Kurjački, Petar Majarevic, Dragan Maršićin, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Šormaz, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Lazić, Milan Ernjaković, Filip Golubović, Dusan Tubić, Sladjan Mijalović, Predrag Mijailović, Tomislav Kitanovic and Radmilo Milosevic. This amendment has been withdrawn in writing. National MPs Dragan Tomic and Branko Ruzic together submitted the 15th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one voted against 121, abstentioned one, was voted by 12, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I find that MP Marijan Rističević withdrew the amendment to Article 15. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vukic and Ljubomir Kragovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 120, with one abstention, voted 13 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one voted against 122, a abstentioned one, had voted 10, out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one voted against 127 with abstentions, not seven out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Zeljko Tomic. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part... The word has Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10544	In accepting the amendments by the ministry, a single letter of error was stolen, as explained in the amendment's statement that it was a mistake. The idea is that instead of "the union organisation", it says "is delivered to union organisations". The organization is in one. It is clear from the explanation that by accepting the amendment, the intensity was that all union organisations should receive information, and therefore I would ask that this remark be taken into account in the final legal order, so that the amendment, and therefore this member, would be properly defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10545	That went into the record, right? So I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill, with the proposed amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 127, held one, voted 7, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Miomirlić. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted against 123, with one abstention, had voted 11 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under Article 16(4) of the amendment, MP Arsen Kurjački submitted (the ambassador gave up the amendment). The government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment, and Arsen Kurjački withdrew this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Slobodan Tomovic and Joca Arsic. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted against 129, two abstentions, six out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Željko Tomic, Arsen Kurjački, Petar Mađarevic, Dragan Maršićin, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Šormaz, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Lazić, Milan Ernjaković, Filip Golubović, Dusan Tubić, Sladjan Mijalović, Predrag Mijailović, Tomislav Kitanovic and Radmilo Milosevic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Parliament of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted the fifth amendment to Article 16. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For 20, against 112, the abstention one, did not vote four, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Tomovic and Joca Arsic submitted together to the 16th amendment. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 127, held one, voted 10, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 16th amendment. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted against 132 abstentions, 5 out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Željko Tomic, Arsen Kurjački, Petar Majarevic, Dragan Maršićin, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Šormaz, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Lazić, Milan Ernjaković, Filip Golubović, Dusan Tubić, Sladjan Mijalović, Predrag Mijailović, Tomislav Kitanovic and Radmilo Milosevic. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. He submitted to Article 17 of the amendment, and then withdrew in writing, MP Mirko Petrovic. So the amendment has been withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Petrovic to Article 18. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 18, paragraph 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For one, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18, paragraph 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For one, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The committees responsible did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one voted against 133 abstentions, no 5 votes, of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, ŽeljkoTomić, Arsen Kurjački, Petar Majarevic, Dragan Maršićin, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Šormaz, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Lazić, Milan Ernjaković, Filip Golubović, DusanTubic, Sladjan Mijalović, Predrag Mijailović, Tomislav Kitanovic and Radmilo Milosevic. This amendment has been withdrawn in writing. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Tomic and Joca Arsic. The government and the committees in charge have not accepted these amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I am putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 132 abstentions, there were no four votes, out of a total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 19. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 134 abstention, one did not vote two out of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Stevan Ž. Gudurić and Dragan Tomic. The government and the committees in charge have not accepted these amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I am putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 129, one abstention, did not vote 6, of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one voted against 130, abstentioned one, voted 7. Of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one voted against 131, one abstention, six out of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 129, abstentioned four, four of the total of 138 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Tomic and Joca Arsic. The government and the committees in charge have not accepted these amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I am putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 131 abstentions, two did not vote four out of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one voted against 126 abstentions, not 12, of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Novakovic and Jovan Deretic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 129, two abstentions, six of the 138 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20th of the Fourth Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Lazar Marjanski and Petar Jojic submitted. The government and the committees in charge have not accepted these amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I am putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 124 abstentions, there were no 13 votes, of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. (The chairman of Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one voted against 123, the two abstentions, had voted 11 out of the 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 21st, the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 123, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 21st, the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Garcevic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zivanko Radovanchev and Dusan Cvetkovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 131 abstention one, voted four, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 22, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 126, a abstentioned one, voted 10, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Stevan Kesejic, Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Petar Jojic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 129, one abstention, voted seven, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic to Article 24th. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 129 abstentions, voted 8, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th position of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 126, a abstentioned one, voted 11, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Novakovic and Jovan Deretic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 126, a abstentioned one, voted nine, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Željko Tomic, Arsen Kurjački, Petar Mađarevic, Dragan Maršićin, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Šormaz, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Lazić, Milan Ernjaković, Filip Golubović, Dusan Tubić, Sladjan Mijalović, Predrag Mijailović, Tomislav Kitanovic and Radmilo Milosevic. The amendment of a group of MPs has been withdrawn, so it is not subject to procedural debate in particular. The amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Milan Jankovic to Article 24th. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 130, abstentioned one, voted five, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 24 of the Fifth Amendment by MP Arsen Kurjački. I find the amendment has been withdrawn, so it's not the subject of a procedural debate in detail. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 124, a abstentioned one, voted 11, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 127, two abstentions, voted 7, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 129 abstentions, there was no vote of 6, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. Together, against 125, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 25th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Novakovic and Jovan Deretic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For one, against 130, there were no abstentions, there were no 5 votes, of a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one, against 132 abstentions, voted three, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 128, abstentioned one, voted 6, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. He submitted to Article 25 of the amendment, and then withdrew in writing, MP Zeljko Tomic. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 124, a abstentioned one, voted 10 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one, against 126, with one abstention, voted 8 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Radoicic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 127, abstentioned one, voted 7, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one, against 128, was detained, voted 7, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For one, against 127, there were no abstentions, there was no 7. out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one, against 123, abstained one, voted 11 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 128, abstentioned one, voted 6, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 29th amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment in accordance with Article 141. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. This amendment is due to the agreement with the accepted amendment by the DSS parliamentary group in the part of the Agency's reporting on tendering or auctioning. Please accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10547	Thank you. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, against one, there was no abstention, there was no vote of 8, of a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 30, the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Lukic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. No one, against 124 abstentions, voted 12 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 126 abstentions, not 10, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 126 abstentions, not 10, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 32, the 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 120 abstentions, not 14 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 124, one abstentioned, not 11 votes, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For one, against 128, there were no abstentions, there was no 7. out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Ruzic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 130 abstentions, not six out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Slobodan Janjic and Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 127 with abstentions, not 9 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 36. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 127 with abstentions, not nine out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 130 abstentions, not six out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 37, position 2 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Željko Tomic, Arsen Kurjački, Petar Mađarevic, Dragan Maršićin, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Šormaz, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Lazić, Milan Ernjaković, Filip Golubović, Dusan Tubic, Sladjan Mijalović, Predrag Mijailović, Tomislav Kitanovic and Radmilo Milosevic. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 38, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 130 abstentions, not six out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 131, one abstentioned, four out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Željko Tomic, Arsen Kurjački, Petar Mađarevic, Dragan Maršićin, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Šormaz, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Lazić, Milan Ernjaković, Filip Golubović, Dusan Tubić, Sladjan Mijalović, Predrag Mijailović, Tomislav Kitanovic and Radmilo Milosevic. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 39, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 130, one was abstentioned, not four, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 39, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Lukic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 132 abstentions, voted four out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 39, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 121 abstentions, voted 14 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against the 129 abstentions, voted 6, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 128, two abstentions, voted 6, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 41. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 128, abstentioned one, voted 6, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted the amendment to Article 41. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has an authorised representative, Vice-President of the Vojvodina Assembly, Mr. Predrag Filipov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10548	Dear President, honourable MPs, the amendment tabled by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina on this proposal for a law on privatisation in Article 41, reads: Behind the words "earths" is stuck and the words "protective, sustainable use and promotion of the environment" are added. In the same article in paragraph 3 instead of the point at the end of the sentence, it is stuck and the words "the budget of territorial autonomy and the budget of local self-government are added in proportion to the law". I would like to state in my explanation the following: by supplementing Article 1(1) in Article 41. The Privatisation Act proposes that the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. the property, also contains a provision on protection, retreadable use and improvement of the environment, and in accordance with the relevant regulations in the field of protection and improvement of the environment. The addition of Article 3 of the same article would allow the budget of territorial autonomy and the budget of local self-government to be part of the revenue generated by the sale of capital and privatisation entities based on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and in proportion to the law established. As privatisation entities are also built through territorial autonomy and local self-government, in line with the principle of fairness, part of the revenue from their sale should, according to the proposed solution, belong to the budget of territorial autonomy and the budget of local self-government, which would strengthen the material position, both at local and territorial level.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10549	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10550	The assembly of the AP Vojvodina has submitted a similar amendment to Article 60, defining the purposes of privatisation revenues, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted. As a consequence of accepting the amendment, the government of the Republic of Serbia has come up with an amendment to Article 61 to define the percentage amount of revenue to be redirected for these purposes, not only for local autonomy but also for the authority of territorial autonomy and for infrastructure development programmes. Therefore, since the adoption of this amendment would be in conflict with the Budget Law, we propose that the Assembly not accept this amendment, that the amendment to Article 60 be accepted, that all committees of the Assembly have passed and that a government amendment to Article 61 be accepted, in which way the purpose of this amendment is fully met.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10551	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st position of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Novakovic and Jovan Deretic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 123, abstained one, voted 12 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Tomic submitted to the 41st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 128, was detained, voted 8 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 41, paragraph 3 of the amendment was tabled by MP Arsen Kurjački. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. I find the MP has given up the amendment. On Article 41, paragraph 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and MPs Joca Arsic and Djura Lazic together. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 127, two abstentions, voted seven out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 41st Amendment was filed by the People's MP George Mamul. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has been made by the People's MP George Mamula, the messenger of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10553	This is related to Article 12, since we said speculative capital cannot participate in privatisation, it is only required that the contract be verified with proof that a one-time tax was paid, based on extra profit and extra property, so it fits into what the minister said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10554	Anyone else want a word? He has the words of Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10555	Absolutely, since we have accepted the amendment to Article 12, I suggest that the National Assembly accept the amendment to the 41st National MP, Mr George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10556	Thank you. I'm putting the amendment to the vote and I'm asking the MPs to come forward. For 127, no one, abstentioned two, voted seven out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For no one, against 132 abstention one, voted three out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 43, the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For no one, against 123, abstentioned one, voted three, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic to Article 43th. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 128, was detained, voted 9 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For one, contrary to 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 43rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Vojislav Obradovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For no one, against 127, abstentioned one, voted 9 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 43, Article 2 of the amendment is the mid-national MP Petar Petrovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 131 abstentions, voted 6, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For no one, against 127, abstentioned one, voted 9 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted the amendment to Article 43rd. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 127, had been detained, had voted 10, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For no one, against 130, with abstentions, voted 7, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 121 abstentions, voted 16 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For no one, against 130, with abstentions, voted 7, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 121, with two abstentions, voted 13 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was filed by MP Vojislav Obradovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For no one, against 126, a abstentioned one, voted 9 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milos Lukic to Article 45. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against the 131 abstentions, voted five out of the 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 130 abstentions, voted 7, out of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For four, against 131 abstentions, there were no 12 votes, out of a total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 46th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 128 abstentions, voted 7, out of the 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The first amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Obradovic to Article 46. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 130, abstained one, voted four, out of the 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 46th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 131 abstention one, voted four out of the 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bozidar Vucurović, Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Jovan Todorovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the committees in charge have not accepted these amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I am putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 133, with abstentions, voted three, of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. The MP withdrew his amendment from the procedure. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Joca Arsic submitted an amendment proposing the removal of Articles 49, 52, 53 and 54. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 126 abstentions, voted 10 out of the 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Obradovic submitted the amendment to Article 49. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 122, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of the 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 49. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 130 abstentions, voted 6, of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 49, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Petar Petrovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For two, against 125, the abstentions were not voted 9 out of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic to Article 49. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 126, a abstentioned one, voted nine, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 49, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 130, was detained, voted seven, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 128, abstentioned one, voted eight, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. I find that MP Arsen Kurjaski has withdrawn the amendment to Article 50. On Article 51, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Arsen Kurjački. I find that MP Arsen Kurjački withdrew the amendment to Article 51(2). On Article 52, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 127, was detained, voted 11, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 52, paragraph 3 of the amendment was tabled by MP Arsen Kurjački. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 53, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Arsen Kurjački. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. I find that MP Arsen Kuryacki has withdrawn the amendment to Article 54. On Article 54, paragraph 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 125, was detained, voted 12, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 56, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 131 abstention one, voted seven, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 130, with abstentions, voted 10, a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 59th position of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Tomic and Slobodan Tomovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 129, one abstention, voted 10, a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 60th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 132 abstentions, voted seven, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Novakovic and Jovan Deretic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 128, abstentioned one, voted 10, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 127, abstentioned one, voted 11, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to the 60th Amendment. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Stanko Kovacevic submitted to the 60th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendment submitted in writing that the amendment has conditionally withdrawn, with the government's obligation to submit a conclusion under which it undertakes that funds to encourage the population of the Republic of Serbia, under a bill submitted by a group of DOS MPs, will be provided for in the 2002 budget. Since, according to the Rules of Procedure, the amendment cannot be suspended on condition, I would ask MP Stanko Kovacevic to declare whether he remains with this amendment. Since the MP is not present, then we must put it to the vote. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For three, against 121 abstentions, 5 did not vote 9, a total of 138 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Novakovic and Jovan Deretic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 130, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to the 61st Amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative, Dr. Predrag Filipov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10557	Given that the Government has accepted the amendment of the AP Vojvodina Assembly to Article 60, and has also proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia its amendment to Article 61 after Article 2 adds a new position 3 and 4, which is currently referring to the regulation of what the ideas of the amendment were to Articles 61 and 60, I am withdrawing the amendment to Article 61. The Parliaments of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10558	I find that the authorised applicant for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment to Article 61. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. I ask the rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee to make a statement on this amendment. Here's a word from the vice president of the Finance Committee, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Finance Committee has not declared itself to this amendment. We have decided, in one of the doubts in which we have found ourselves, whether municipalities located in territorial autonomy are in a better position than the other municipalities, that we simply allow the Assembly to make a decision, given that, in accordance with Rule 132 of Article 5, if the committee is not declared, the Assembly makes a decision. We decided to simply leave it to the Assembly, since there is also a resolution minister. I think it's best for the Assembly to decide this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10560	The word is made by the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Mr Srdjan Sikimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10561	As far as this amendment is concerned, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. That's our attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10562	The word has a minister of economy and privatisation, Mr. Vlahovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10563	The government is again, using the right given to it by Article 141. Rules of Procedure, submitted this amendment in order to bring the preceding article of the 60th and accepted amendment of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. First of all, in this way, no municipalities in the Vojvodina territory are better placed than municipalities in central Serbia, or municipalities in Kosovo's territory, compared to municipalities in central Serbia's territory, because both in the provinces and in central Serbia, municipalities receive 5% for the development of local infrastructure. Therefore, for those purposes defined in Article 60. This is about an additional 5% that is directed for the purposes of territorial autonomy, hence the development of infrastructure in the jurisdiction of territorial autonomy, which, among other things, shifts from the budget. So it's not about the subordinated position of municipalities in the provinces and municipalities in central Serbia. On the contrary, all local self-governments are in exactly the same position. In this way, by accepting the amendments, we are actually meeting entirely justified demands by the AP Vojvodina. We're making this request defined in a legally possible way. I propose to the Assembly that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10564	Does anyone else sign up for a word? If not, I put the amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the vote. For 122, against 6 abstentions, 6 were not voted 5, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 117 abstentions, voted 22, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 132 abstentions, voted 8 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The first amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Obradovic to article 61. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 133, with abstentions, voted 7, out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 133, with abstentions, voted 7, out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 131 abstentions, no 9 votes, out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment to Article 61, and I have proposed that part of the funds received from the sale of capital be directed towards the pension disability insurance of farmers, and that also one part of the funds belong to the Agricultural Budget of the Republic of Serbia. Reason - I thought that a large part of the social property, i.e. state property, was created by the work of farmers or by the flow of income from agriculture into industry. Since the government and the resolution minister have made me a firm promise that the government will reroute those funds to other mechanisms for these purposes, I call on the minister to make a statement and give up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10566	Thank you, I give my word to the Minister of Economy and Privatisation, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10567	Since the promise does not mean anything until this public from the pay phone is confirmed, the essential reason why we advised Mr. Ristic to withdraw the amendment is because regular budget revenues and regular budget allocation already support the Agrarian budget and there is no need to define the position in this way in particular. We wanted to define that position which is not covered by regular funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, because all farmers must know that agriculture is one of the priorities of this government and we have shown this by correcting the price of agricultural products and ending the robbery of peasants that has been constantly taking place over the last 15 years, and our intention is to firmly enter the programme of agriculture in order to restore agriculture that is now more than 18 years old. Therefore, agriculture, and thus regular redistributions from the budget, will be one of the priorities of this government that we have shown so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10568	I thank the minister. National MP Marijan Risticevic withdrew the amendment to Article 61. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 128, one was abstentioned, 10 were not voted, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Bogoljub Zečević submitted to the 61st Amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Bogoljub Zečević, in the capacity of the submitor of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I amendedly predicted that in favour of the budget of the local self-government, 10% of the payment was made on the basis of the sales made to the seat of the privatisation entity. So by accepting amendments to the Vojvodina Assembly, my amendment was partly accepted because this decision made that municipalities get 5%, but my motive to decide 10% is exactly the requirement of the Vojvodina Assembly to get 10% of the total Serbia area, so I sought somehow to reconcile those two positions and to get 10% on the whole territory of Serbia. So, by accepting amendments to the Vojvodina Assembly, my amendment is unacceptable and I am withdrawing it at this time, but I hope that the government will have understanding because I disagree with Minister Vlahovic that municipalities in central Serbia are not damaged. I think they are damaged and in the distribution of funds that are being made this way, I believe that the government should take that into account and invest some of the money in the central Serbia area.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10570	I find that MP Bogoljub Zecevic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 61. National MP Milos Nesovic submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the committees in charge have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one voted against 131 abstentions, no one voted eight out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 61, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Bozidar Vujic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one, against 126 abstentions, voted 13 out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Stanko Kovacevic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. The amendment submitted by written notice that the amendment has conditionally withdrawn, with the government's obligation to reach a conclusion under which it undertakes that funds to encourage the renewal of the population of the Republic of Serbia under a draft law submitted by a group of MPs will be provided for in the 2002 budget. Since, according to the Rules of Procedure, the amendment cannot be suspended on condition, I ask MP Stanko Kovacevic to declare whether he remains with his amendment? The MP's not here. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For two, against 124, two abstentions, were not voted 11 out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Branislav Blazic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one, against the 131 abstentions, voted eight out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 61. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 125, with abstentions, voted 14 out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 62. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Željko Tomic, Arsen Kurjački, Petar Madžarevic, Dragan Maršićan, Dejan Mihajlov, Dragan Šormaz, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragan Lazić, Milan Ernjaković, Filip Golubović, Dusan Tubić, Sladjan Mijalović, Predrag Mijailović, Tomislav Kitanovic and Radmilo Milosevic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. The word has the authority of a group of MPs, Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10571	As with the Extra Profit Act where we predicted and suggested that one control be established by the competent assembly board, and here we predicted it. But because the third position foresees that the committee of directors can hire legal and natural persons that would be involved in the control, and that affects, according to the minister himself, and in agreement with the minister, in some of the powers of the executive authority, we give up that part and remain in the first two positions that ensure the authority of the Assembly board to exercise control. That's what this amendment is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10572	The word has Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10573	In this way, among other things, my publicly-proclaimed request is made that the Serbian Parliament fully exercise control over the ministry's work, the work of the Privatisation Agency. I hope that we will really achieve full transparency of the privatisation process and I hope that in the privatisation process we will show that trust relations can be much stronger than they are. We suggest that this amendment, with the correction to delete the third item of the amendment, be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10574	I am putting on the vote of the amendments tabled together by a group of MPs, with a correction in Article 62, paragraph 3. For 118, against five, with three abstentions, did not vote 10 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 120, was detained, voted 15, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 125, with abstentions, voted 11 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Novakovic and Jovan Deretic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 120, a abstentioned one, voted 14 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Stanko Kovacevic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 127, with abstentions, voted 9 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. I find that MP Arsen Kurjaski has withdrawn this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 67th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against the 129 abstentions, voted 8 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposed that a legal and technical regulation be carried out in Article 67. Having agreed with this revision by the Government's representative at the session of the Legislative Committee, and the revision has been accepted by the Finance Committee, I find that this revision of the Legislative Committee has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal in relation to Article 67. Members of the 68th Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 130, with abstentions, voted 8 out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 69, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Milan Jankovic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 130, a abstentioned one, voted 7, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted the amendment to article 71. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 124 abstentions, voted 14, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 72, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For no one, against 122, abstentioned one, voted 15 out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 73. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 122 abstentions, voted 16 out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Obradovic submitted to the 74th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 127, with abstentions, voted 11 out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 75, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 132 abstentions, voted 5 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 76 be added. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against the 131 abstentions, voted 7, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 77th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 126 abstentions, voted 12 out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vlasimir Budimovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new item 8 be added after article 78, and a new article 79. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. (National MP Vlasimir Budimovic withdrew this amendment). Since we have completed the review of the bill's proposal, in particular the amendment decision, does the motionary's representative want to give the final statement? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the exaggeration of the bill, in particular and put to the vote the draft law on privatisation, in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 134, no one was against, two abstentions, three of the 139 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft law on privatisation in general We move to the 5th point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PrivatZATION AGENCY OF THE AGENCY FOR PRIVATE You have received amendments that were submitted to the bill: the Autonomous Province Assembly of Vojvodina, the People's MPs: Dragan Tomic, Dragan Marković, Milos Lukić, Goran Cvetanović, Vitomir Plužarevic, Stevan Kesejic, Branislav Blažić, Srbojub Živanovic, Jovan Todorovic, Bozidar Vujic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Stevan Gudurić, Milan Jankovic, Veroljub Arsic, Petar Jojic, Natasa Jovanovic, Arsen Kurjački and Dragan Todorovic, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] You have received notice from MP Arsen Kuryacki to withdraw the amendments he has submitted to the article. 14, 17, 18 and 19. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law on the Privatisation Agency, in principle, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against the 129 abstentions, voted 8 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Cvetanovic and Petar Jojic submitted the amendment, in the same text. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against 130, with abstentions, voted 8 out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 4th Amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. No one, against the 131 abstentions, voted 7, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 129, abstained one, voted 8 out of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 127, with one abstention, voted 9 out of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 128 abstentions, there was no vote of 8 out of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 130 abstentions, voted 7, out of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. I ask the rapporteurs of the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee to make their statement on this amendment. He has the word Minister of Economy and Privatisation, Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10575	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 141. In view of the adoption of the amendment to the Privatisation Act, Amendment 4 to Article 16, which transfers the privatisation initiative from the Agency to the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, it is necessary to delete point 1 of Article 8 of this Privatisation Act. Therefore, other jobs, initiatives remain in the jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency, but the direct initiative itself from the Agency passes to the Ministry, i.e. a potential buyer and it's a simple alignment of these two legal projects. I suggest that the National Assembly accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10576	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 125, against three, abstentions, two did not vote 5, out of the 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For no one, against 127, abstentioned one, voted 7. Of the total of 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 125, with abstentions, voted 9 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Srboljub Zivanovic, Bozidar Vujic, Stevan Kesejic and Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the committees in charge have not accepted these amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I am putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 129, abstained one, voted 5 out of the 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against the 129 abstentions, voted 7 out of the 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP withdraws his amendment from the procedure. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 130, abstained one, voted 5, of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. I ask the rapporteurs of the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee to make their statement on this amendment. No, they don't. Does anyone else want a word? There you go. There's a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10577	The adoption of amendments to the AP Vojvodina Assembly has defined that, according to the seat of the privatisation entity, an opinion is collected from territorial autonomy, to start the privatisation. However, the amendment did not bring opinions to the table, and therefore the government believes that if an opinion is asked for, then the deadline for delivering the opinion must also be highlighted. With this amendment, we define the deadline for submission of opinions and propose to the National Assembly to accept the amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10578	I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For 127, against one, abstention four, four were not voted, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For two, against 130, there were no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to the 10th Amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the authorised representative, the applicant of the amendment, want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10579	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I will only inform you that of the seven proposed amendments to the Privatisation Agency's proposal, which arrived from the AP Vojvodina Assembly, six were accepted. Six ideas and six pledges of the AP Vojvodina Assembly were also accepted. In that sense, I owe both the government and Minister Vlahovic thanks for what they did in relation to these amendments that came from Vojvodina. I'll say that these six ideas primarily refer to the decentralisation of the Agency, that the Agency has an organisational unit at the site of the territorial autonomy organ, with the Agency being able to be decentralised again later. The Agency is then obliged to obtain the opinion of the authorities of territorial autonomy, i.e. local self-government, in carrying out privatisation operations. Then, on the Agency's board of directors, appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, one representative from the Vojvodina territory, to implement the principle of decentralisation. The amendment, which is related to the idea that privatisation carried out in the province's territory, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is carried out with the prior opinion of the territorial autonomy authorities, in order to protect the interest of the privatisation entity in the province's territory. An amendment relating to the statute as a basic act of the agency has also been adopted -- that it must contain provisions on co-operation with the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government. Finally, the amendment concerning only notification of what the Agency is doing was accepted, to inform the authority of territorial autonomy alongside the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I think I can accept this argument which is why the Government, or the Ministry, did not accept the amendment to Article 10. I'm withdrawing the amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law on the Privatisation Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10580	I find that the amendment to Article 10 submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has been withdrawn. Members of the 12th amendment were submitted by MPs Arsen Kurjački and Petar Jojic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 129 abstentions, voted 6, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 12th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 130, was detained, voted five, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Having adopted the amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Jankovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. No one, against 132 abstentions, voted three, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Do the committee's reporters want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? He wants to. ) The word has Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10581	It is the need to extend the number of board members. A similar amendment was submitted by Mr. Kurjački, but because of the second part of the amendment, we were not in a position to accept Mr. Kurjački's amendment. So we think that the Supervisory Board will function better if instead of two members, besides the president, there are four members. So, all together, five members. It's a proposal for our amendment and we suggest that it be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10582	I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Article 14. For 129, no one with abstention voted 6, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia was unanimously adopted. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted to the 16th Amendment. Having adopted the amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 17th Amendment was submitted by MPs Goran Cvetanović, Branislav Blažić, Vitomir Plužarevic, Srboljub Zivanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Bozidar Vujic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, against 127, there were no abstentions, there was no 7. A total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 131 abstentions, voted four, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Since the amendment was adopted by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Industry, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the review of the bill's proposal, in particular the amendment decision, does the proposal's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the draft law on the Privatisation Agency in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 130, no one, with two abstentions, voted three, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a Law on the Privatisation Agency. You have received amendments to the 6th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL ON ACCIJSCOM FOND You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Dragan Tomić, Goran Cvetanović, Milan Janković, Dragan Colić, Bozidar Vujic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Joca Arsic, Zarko Obradović, Vitomir Plužarevic, Srbol Živanovic, Hranislav Perić, Jovan Todorovic, Živanko Radovan, Veroljub Arsic, Petar Jojic and Dragoljub Stamenković, as well as the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted, as well as reports from the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft Act on the Action Fund in principle, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Jankovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 129 abstentions, voted 6, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6th, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 125, with one abstention, voted 9, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6(3), the amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The government, the Finance Committee and the Industry Committee have adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, by proposing that, within the framework of the legal and technical regulation, the words "republic fund responsible for pension and disability insurance" are replaced by the words "republic fund for pension and disability insurance" - in order to even the name of this fund with the name contained in the position of the 4th member. This revision was agreed by a representative of the government who was present at the board's session. I find that this amendment, with the legal - technical regulation of the Legislative Committee, has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 7(2) and paragraph 3 of the amendment, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the representative of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10583	I beg your patience, of the five amendments proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina on the proposal of the Act on the Action Fund, the Government and the Ministry have accepted three and this is an opportunity to thank you. I would like to inform you that we are giving up the amendments concerning Article 7 and Article 26.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10584	So the amendment to Article 7 of paragraphs 2 and 3 which was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina was withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic to Article 9th. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 127, with abstentions, voted 8, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 9th by MP Dragan Tomic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For no one, against 130, abstained no one, voted 6, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 135, with abstentions, voted one, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th position of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zivanko Radovanchev. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 130, abstained one, voted 5, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. There are no applications for discussion. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one, against 127, with two abstentions, voted 7, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 13 of the First Amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Committee on Industry have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10585	Also, I suggest that the presentation of an opinion when it comes to a privatisation entity coming from the territory of an autonomous province be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10586	I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 125, against one, with five abstentions, 5 of the 136 MPs did not vote. I find the amendment to Article 13 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to article 13 by MP Zarko Obradovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 127, two abstentions, voted seven out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Milan Jankovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 128, one was abstentioned, did not vote 7, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Tomic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 131, one was abstentioned, not four, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 16th Amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Committee on Industry have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 127, one was abstentioned, had voted 8 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one, against the 131 abstentions, voted 5 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 129, one was abstentioned, not six out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For no one, against 130, one was abstentioned, did not vote 5, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 26, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The amendment was withdrawn by an authorised representative. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the committees in charge have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For one, against 131 abstentions, there were no four votes, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, Veroljub Arsic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Srboljub Zivanovic, Dragan Colić, Bozidar Vujic and Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one, against 128, with abstentions, voted 7, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 30th amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. No one, against 130, with abstentions, voted 5 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For one, against 129 abstentions, there was no vote of 5, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a historic moment for the future of our country. You are today attending not only the act of coronating the five-month intensive work of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but you are attending the beginning of the real construction of the private sector in our country. You are attending the start of economic reforms because privatisation, as we have suggested, along with a package of measures that regulate entities that need to implement privatisation, is indeed a powerful tool for realising economic reforms. This confirms that we are not only verbal for economic reforms, that we are in order to assume a historical responsibility to change the economic structure in our country, which is completely inefficient and which has been producing losses for years, eroding social and state capital in our country, and means the further downward path of gross national product in our country. That's why, gentlemen, when I say privatisation, I really mean investment, because this country needs investment, not empty stories, that free-distribution actions do something for social justice. We did not accept the free division of actions not because we want to disrupt the interests of workers, but because we want to protect the interests of workers, the interests of our citizens, the interests of our children, which we want to create conditions for stable economic development, for a stable social environment. In this country, we're going to have social stability, not when it's declared out of mere political pulsism, we say, yes, well, the workers were creating property, so why shouldn't it be fair to share it. In doing so, it does not support the fact that this and such an economy is annually producing losses that are now accumulated at over 500 billion dinars, that this and such an economy today is looming in liquidity problems because there is no trade capital and there is no loss of more than 10 billion dollars, that such an economy has gone through and a major foreign investment loan of $12 billion has failed through this inefficient economy. What we want - to get into the story, to turn that curve that has been falling down for years and means a deeper and deeper sinking towards that last scale of European people, towards the last scale of economics in Europe, to turn it up and that the state of Serbia in six, seven years will be respectable not only in political, but also in economic terms, that we have an economy that will give us new jobs, where our children will be happy to live in this economy. Be assured that this law means the beginning of this long and painful journey. I know that economic reforms in all countries have been a difficult and painful process, but we have no other way than to enter into a decisive economy, an efficient economic structure. After all, we will certainly succeed in this because it is not only about support from within the relevant participants. Support is important on the outside, and we today have the support of the World Bank, the IMF and all the countries where we expect the strategic partner to come. We should not be afraid of the arrival of foreign capital here, because let us look at examples of countries such as Hungary, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, such as other successful countries in transition, where over 2/3 of the capital through privatisation came from just developed European countries. No one there came to disarm the equipment, to unmount the halls and to take them and install them there in the West. The capital won't come here to shut down the factories. The capital will come here because we have what to offer the West, because we have what to offer strategic investors, and we have what to offer our investors, and above all, small and medium-sized enterprises. This law builds on a strong stimulant for all those who believe in their businesses and therefore expect offers from workers, from a group of workers. If they believe in their businesses, they will compete with the best offer to buy their own company. So, ladies and gentlemen, enough with the verbal commitment to privatisation, calling privatisation every other name except for the real one. The moment is for us to really start with the right privatisation, to stop the commercial commercial privatisations through the conclusion of harmful contracts at the expense of social property, and indeed, we all courageously enter into economic reforms together and bring this country where it belongs, and this is a respectable place on the scale of European peoples, not only in political but also in economic terms. I hope that the whole country, all participants in privatisation, will show to what extent they are economically mature to implement economic reforms, as they have shown to what extent they were politically mature on 5 October and in December when they finally said not one system that has ruined the country in the last 15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-27-0.u10588	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting a vote on the action fund bill, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. There were no abstentions for 132, two out of 134 MPs voted. After we're done with the 4th and 6th points, and there are five minutes until the end of business hours, I'll see you Monday 2nd of July at 10.00 hours. Have a nice vacation.
