ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11754	I report to the Rules of Procedure, article 28, which states that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Just because of the point 3, which was supposed to be on the agenda yesterday as point 2, which is -- the choice of legal holders, I would ask the President of the Assembly to provide us with finally purified material for this item of the agenda. The MPs of DOS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or those bodies of the party who run that staff policy with you, have so much changed these proposals that I don't think you know for yourself which judge and president of the court where they are proposed. Therefore, I would ask you to provide us with the consolidated text of the final proposals, so that we can really discuss them normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11755	In the Rules of Procedure, of course, nothing about it stands but for the president to take care of the time-consistent work. The board did their job, delivered yesterday the names of the judge-holders where the proposals are withdrawn, and you can only take a pen and draw those names out of the basic text, so you'll know who's left on the list. I don't see that that's any particular problem. You've had all day and night for that. If you don't mind, we'll continue. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE FINISHING OF THE FUNCTION, THE DISCUSSION AND THE CHOICE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE FUNCTIONS For this item of the agenda, you have received proposals from the Committee for Justice and Administration, and this is: 1. The motion for a decision establishing that the Act of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, taken at the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, held on 21 December 1999, on the basis of which Slobodan Vučetic ceased to serve as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, nothing; 2. Proposal for a decision to put aside the decision on discharge from the judge's office of the Supreme Court of Serbia; 3. Proposal for a decision to suspend the duties of the President of the General Court; 4. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Commercial Courts; 5. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the Judgeship of Judges of General Jurisdiction and Commercial Courts; 6. Proposal for a decision on the termination of office of public prosecutor, with an amendment; 7. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the duties of the President of the General Court; 8. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the office of the President of the Commercial Courts; 9. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the deputy public prosecutor's office in the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; 10. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges and president of district and municipal courts, with amendments; 11. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges and president of economic courts. When setting out a proposal for a decision on the selection of judges and president of district and municipal courts in general, namely the establishment of a proposal for candidates for individual courts, opinions were taken by members of the Committee for Justice and Administration Zoran D. Nikolic and Branko Pavlovic. You have also made proposals for decisions made by V.D. Republic Public Prosecutor, 12. Proposal for a decision on the selection of district attorneys; 13. Proposal for a decision on the selection of deputy district attorneys with correction; 14. Proposal for a decision on the selection of municipal public prosecutors and 15. Proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, with amendments and corrections. In addition, you received a notice from the Committee on Justice and Administration to withdraw the motions for a decision delivered on 19 July and 20 July 2001, namely: Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges and presidents of district and municipal courts (number 119-2129/01); Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges and presidents of economic courts (number 119-2130/01); Proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial office of judges of general jurisdiction (number 118-1949/01) and a proposal for a decision on the termination of office of public prosecutors (number 118-1947/01), as well as a notice v.d. the Republic's Public Prosecutor to withdraw the motions for decisions delivered on July 6, 2001 and 22, 2001 on the selection of public prosecutors (number 119-1921/01 and issue 119-2236/01). You have also received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of the proposal v.d. a republican public prosecutor for the selection of public prosecutors. You have been given an amendment to the proposal for a decision on the selection of judges and president of district and municipal courts, which the Committee set out at its session on 18 September 2001. I propose that all proposals for decisions on the termination of functions, the resolution and the choice of judicial officers be subject to a single search, and that the National Assembly be particularly clear on each proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 141 against 27, there were no abstentions, there were no 11 votes, and a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In accordance with Article 153 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single review of the motions for decisions on the termination of functions, resolution and selection of judicial holders. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11756	The Honorable Presidency, honourable Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Committee on Justice and the Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has addressed to the National Assembly a number of proposals, as well as a number of proposals submitted to the National Assembly by the second-authorised promoter, acting as public prosecutor. Such a large number of proposals at one session were the result of the Committee's work all summer, as if in July it had finalised the proposals of the material that was the subject of preparation during the previous period. The withdrawal of proposals bearing July dates, which you have been informed in writing and in the opening statement of Mr. President of the National Assembly, is the consequence of the fact that the proposals from various sessions have been united into one material, with which two additions have been made, one yesterday, and one today, it is the withdrawal of some proposals and the making of a new proposal. When it comes to these proposals, I must say that some of them have been the subject of the Committee's debate several times, some even yesterday and today, and this is an expression of efforts to avoid mistakes, as well as to ensure the widest support of both the Assembly and the expert, as well as the public for the proposed solutions. To this end, it is ensured that at the meetings of the Committee on Justice and Administration, representatives of the competent judicial institutions and representatives of the legal chambers are present. In short, it is about the following groups of proposals. First, it is the resolution of a number of court presidents whose term of office they have been elected to. The role of the President of the Court is not permanent, the presidents of the courts are elected with a term of four years and in July a number of regular court presidents expired. The proposal to the National Assembly is to realise that the mandate has ceased, and in a small number of cases, the same candidates have again been proposed for the presidents of the courts. The second group of proposals consist of proposals for termination, i.e. a resolution from the office of the president of the regular and business courts, a number of presidents who have not expired their term of office. On the basis of the opinions prepared by the Ministry of Justice and local self-government, the Committee found that the conditions laid down in Article 37(5) were met. The law on courts, namely that there is an objective responsibility of the President of the courts for failures in the work of those courts. It is the Committee's opinion on the necessary changes in judicial and administrative functions. On the legal basis of such changes, the National Assembly has already discussed and found that it can exist. The Committee, however, also discussed the letter to the College of the President of the Commercial Courts, who considered that they should have been consulted in the adoption of a proposal for their resolution. Not only on their principle (no Judj and rem suam), but also legal provisions have led the Committee to accept this remark only and it does not consider this to be the reason for the change in the proposal that the Committee has confirmed. The Committee particularly points out that a court president's resolution does not mean a resolution from the judge's post. This resolution does not affect the professional and personal dignity of the president of the courts. They remain judges in their courts and the board believes that most of them will perform their judicial duties with honor and success. The function of the President of the Courts is variable, and I would say one necessary evil in the career of every judge, in which the judge's career comes first. Next, under three, the next proposals of the Justice Committee to elect the president of regular and business courts. The adoption of these proposals, together with those already adopted and along with some I expect the Committee to refer to the National Assembly for a regular session, will be largely changed by the human resources in the judicial and administrative functions of the President of the Court. It is a significant step in judicial reform, but of course not decisive. A decisive step will take place when the National Assembly adopts new legislation in judicial institutions, and when it changes itself more deeply, when it comes to judges, it is at least my wish, young, professional and uncompromised people. In the election of the president, i.e. the candidate for the president of the courts, the Committee talked a lot, debated a lot, even changed its proposals. It's no wonder, because it's about places that are under the care of both the general and the professional public. The board hopes he hasn't made any serious mistakes. It seems to me that the proposals have been adopted with respect to every opinion, especially those that have brought certain proposals into question. When there was doubt, we delayed the decision on the proposals, so that we could defend those solutions that we had. The fourth group of the proposal is a consensus on the resolution from the judge's office, and it is a solution that is not against the will of the court-holders. It's about the judge's discharges due to retirement or on a personal request. The committee also decided to support proposals by the republic's public prosecutor for the resolution of certain prosecutorial functions, in most cases it is also about a resolution for retirement and a personal request. The committee agreed on proposals by the perpetrators of the republic's public prosecutor for the appointment of a number of district and municipal prosecutors, as well as a deputy prosecutor. The proposer is the prosecution, and the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, only gives consent to these proposals, and what has been done. Finally, the Committee proposed that the National Assembly cancel two of its decisions in the earlier assembly. The first decision is to dismiss Serbia's Supreme Court Judge Radovan Coguric, who was resolved on a proposal by the Supreme Court, as he was convicted of traffic crimes on a five-month sentence. Judge Coguric filed a constitutional appeal against this decision by the National Assembly, before the Yugoslav Constitutional Court. The Yugoslav Constitutional Court adopted a constitutional appeal and found that the assembly violated the Law on Courts when Judge Coguric relieved the duties. The adoption of this proposal essentially means the enforcement of the Constitutional Court of Yugoslavia's decision, and such a proposal has been made within its jurisdiction by the Supreme Court of Serbia. The latest proposal to annul the decision to dismiss Serbian Constitutional Court Judge Slobodan Vucic. The decision to resolve the National Assembly adopted in its assembly only as a finding, without debate, and more importantly without voting, as a notice. In the opinion of the Justice Committee, this is a harsh violation of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act, and when it comes to reasons for resolution, and more or more equally when it comes to procedure. As a matter of fact, the National Assembly did not provide for a procedure and made a decision on the resolution. It seems to me that it is a legally non-existent act, but an act that has produced legal consequences that are still going on. Therefore, in the Committee's view, this invalid act should be put out of force, so that these illegal legal consequences are also put out of force. The Committee has made a great effort to prepare these proposals for the National Assembly and I hope that the National Assembly will adopt these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11757	Opinions on the Justice Committee were singled out by members of the panel Zoran D. Nikolic and Branko Pavlovic. Are they answering for a word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure, Article 84(3), have been injured. We have just heard from the chairman of the Management Board of Telecom that yesterday and today we have received some new proposals concerning appointments, resolutions. I remind you that article 84 says: Proposals relating to selection, appointment, resolution and termination of office shall be submitted no later than 24 hours before the start of a session of the National Assembly. The National Assembly cannot make decisions today based on the suggestions that arrived in the National Assembly yesterday or today, which we have not yet received. That is why I believe that we can only work on the agenda adopted and on the proposals that MPs received up to 24 hours before the start of this session, or this extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11760	One clarification, yesterday the Justice Committee decided to withdraw certain proposals. National MP Mr Nikolic indicated that the appointment and resolution proposals must be delivered 24 hours before the session begins. This is about withdrawing the proposal, so there's no proposal, so it can't be decided on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11761	The explanation, I repeat, I think it's clear enough here, precisely what Mr Nikolic read, that the other points refer to changes to the agenda and to the establishment of the agenda. Are the Members of the People who have given their views a word? Yeah. Mr. Pavlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to point out three things, because I think they're important and we can make mistakes about the whole package that's been made. Two refer to where the Proposer of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the Serbian Parliament is, and it is the District Court of Vranje and the Municipality Court of Smederev, and in order to make it easier for you to monitor your materials, these are pages 2 and 9, you will find them there. These are important, but minor problems. The key problem is what we have been supplied with material as suggestions for staffing on public prosecutorial functions. We have a huge constitutional and legal problem here, and I'll talk about it later, and I'll tell you right now that they're filed by an unauthorized person. Go back to the courts. Why did I single out my opinion regarding the candidate for the President of the District Court in Vranje and the candidate for the President of the Municipality Court in Smederev? Because these are people who have never been judges in their careers, absolutely never, and that's particularly dramatic when it comes to the county court. Being the President of the District Court, and never being a judge -- it's really nobody's ever done it and it doesn't exist as an experience anywhere in the world. There's an experience that you're a lawyer or prosecutor, so you become a judge, even a senior court, but the President of the Court -- absolutely not. In all of Serbia, only in Vranj is the case, and when we talk about district courts, it is only in Vranj that someone who has never been a judge is proposed for the president. In Capco, the proposal was withdrawn, and that's good. I've singled out an opinion for the Sabbath, but since that proposal has been withdrawn, then I have no reason to draw your attention to it. As for the candidate for the President of the Municipality Court in Smederev, I draw your attention because you don't have it in the materials, but we had it on the Justice Committee. What do we know about this candidate? We know that for the first time he got a job at 31 years old, that in his 40s, he had nine years of work experience, we know that, and you don't have it in materials, his average was 6,16 and 7 years of study. He was never a judge. Let's say he was in the judiciary, he had some other indicators, and we say he worked one way or another, and then we could discuss it, but in these situations it's about such indicators, where I'm absolutely not ready to accept that kind of election of the President of the Court. I have to tell you that there are several other cases, eight or nine, where the proposed people who have never been judges, but there are smaller environments, and in a number of these cases, there are situations in which judges have never even applied. Don't think I'm an unreal man. You choose from what you have, but it absolutely does not apply to the County Court in Vranje and does not apply to Smederevo. That absolutely doesn't stand. As for the chairman, I ask that this be put to an individual vote, or I demand an individual statement for these two candidates. We're having minor problems right now. We have an incredible situation that all the motions for public prosecutorial functions come from an unauthorized person. Mr. Nedic is not acting as Republic Public Prosecutor. He made himself into that calling himself self-performing. Self-government in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office leads to a significant collapse of the country's constitutional and legal order, and it absolutely cannot be supported, and this assembly cannot slip in such a way. I'll give you a little chronology to get you into the whole story of why. Of course, after October 5th, the then republican prosecutor applied for resignation and then came up with a solution that set him as acting as Mr. Ivanovic. It's a legal procedure. Whoever changes the Republic's prosecutor - it is regulated in the head that regulates the public prosecutor's office, the handling of the authorities, and therefore, only those who are at the head of the authority have the authority to determine who will change it. It was done and Mr. Ivanovic was legally in the position of acting as the republican public prosecutor. Mr. Ivanovic, you have it in your materials, and by all accounts, time has expired and he has to retire. The next person to change during this period can only be the person Mr. Ivanovic has the authority to do so. In this legal vacuum, not in a vacuum, but in a situation where a man is to retire, the Justice and Administration Committee has found it necessary to recommend, who in our opinion should, in our opinion, be the deputy of a Republic prosecutor (please, the Justice Committee's formulation) "should have done this function, and there is no basis for anyone to become one. In other words, we've brought it to the conclusion and in the wording of "necessary." You read in the press that we were setting someone up. We hadn't thought of it, and there are stenographic notes from the board's session. We've just discussed it, and we've come to the conclusion that the Committee has no authority to appoint the acting officer and we haven't done it, and otherwise it would be a decision, and - it's designated as the performer of the duties that and that. We didn't do it. Unfortunately, it was only Thursday that I learned that Mr. Nedic had no legal basis for showing up at all. I had a chance yesterday on the Justice and Administration Committee to ask him directly - Mr. Nedic, in addition to that conclusion by the Justice Committee, which can't be your legal basis, do you have anything you appear to be doing your duty? We saw it wasn't there. The president of Serbia's Supreme Court agreed that Mr. Nedic, and there are stenographic notes, according to him legitimately but illegally in the post. Tolerating illegality in the Republic Prosecutor's Office itself is a dramatic violation of the country's entire constitutional and legal order. So at this point, it is extremely important that we, however difficult this is, face legal arguments, face legal facts and take the only possible move, which is to reject all proposals that come from an unauthorized person. Secondly, the question of responsibility, who, how and why is doing - what the Assembly today at this meeting needs to do is not to support these proposals, not entering into individual analyses at all, because they all come from an unauthorized person. You will hear different arguments here, and I have heard them on the Justice Committee - the interest of the state, the interest in fighting crime, corruption, etc. And things are completely the other way around. Keeping the law in the Republic Prosecutor's Office is the first and most fundamental thing to fight corruption, crime, the preservation of the state, the preservation of citizens' trust and the preservation of the country's constitutionality. Every different approach in the second and third steps leads us to disaster, even assuming that we have the best intentions, which I am now not opening up the discussion at all, nor do I think we're discussing at this point. That argument, which would go beyond the legal framework, is totally unacceptable to me. I haven't heard any legal counter argument on the Justice and Administration Committee. If I had heard it, I would have given it to you now and immediately used the time that is available to me to pollute with it. So, finally, as for the District Court in Vranje and the Municipality Court in Smederev, I ask for an individual statement, and as for all proposals signed by Mr Nedic, I ask that you reject such proposals because they are filed by an unauthorized person, who has self-authorisedly taken the position of the perpetrator of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11763	After this presentation of Mr. Pavlovic, a member of the Board of Administration and Justice, I think it is necessary to interrupt the session, to hold a meeting and then inform the presidents of the parliamentary groups about what was agreed. Pause until 12:00. [[After break - 13.25 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a break by 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11766	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Committee on Justice and the Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has considered the objection that the proposal for the appointment of district, municipal public prosecutors and deputy prosecutors does not stem from an authorised person. The Justice Committee has taken its opinion on this, because more than that, it cannot, which it has referred to you in writing. I'll try in a brief oral presentation to highlight a few points. First, the Committee for Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the right and the obligation to give its opinion on candidates for public prosecutorial functions. The Committee gave its opinion, considering the candidates of the person who were proposed, and of that opinion there is no reason for it to stand down and not stand down. The positive opinion given to these candidates remains. Secondly, the Committee for Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not responsible for determining who will be V.D. a republican public prosecutor, in case he doesn't have a person who can perform this function. The Republic of Serbia was left without a republican public prosecutor when former public prosecutor Dragisa Krsmanovic resigned. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office governs the issue by a lapidary formulation, predicting that, in the event of the prevention or absence of a republican public prosecutor, one of the deputies, who has been designated to do so, performs his duties. No detailed information is available on how to determine the replacement, v.d. a republican public prosecutor. As we have written in our written opinion, the most natural way, according to the general legal rules and the general legal logic, is for the Republic's public prosecutor to appoint a deputy to do his duty in the event of his prevention. It is natural, for the sake of legal certainty, that this be determined by one written act. However, there is a situation where it is obviously not possible, when there is simply no person who will do so. Dragisa Krsmanovic, by resigning, is for V.D. a republican public prosecutor ordered by Deputy Stanisha Ivanovic. The inspection found that Mr Stanisa Ivanovic had long fulfilled and exceeded the legal requirements for compulsory retirement. By law, you retire at 65 years of age. Exceptionally, it can be extended for another two years. Mr. Ivanovic is 69 years old. So, the 67, as the deadline, it's been a long time. Mr. Ivanovic, when a proposal for his discharge came from his retirement duty, addressed the Committee on Justice and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, calling for the position of the counterparts of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, who proposed three individuals who could perform, according to the report, the duty of the republic's public prosecutor. These are: Dr Dragomir Nedic, Milena Inić-Drecun and Miljan Sarčević. The Committee for the Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has put on the agenda the proposal of the deputy deputy member of the Republic Public Prosecutor and of the official of the office, Stanisa Ivanovic, and concluded that the Committee is not competent to appoint a V.D. a republican public prosecutor, but yes, since he is an authorised prosecutor, in principle -- who can do more, can do less, can give his opinion which of the proposed candidates should perform this post. The Committee discussed, voted, and decided by a large majority that the function of the V.D. The republican public prosecutor is due to perform Dr Dragomir Nedic. After that, Dr Dragomir Nedic took office in V.d. a republican public prosecutor. His signature was deposited, certified, etc. In the Committee's view, the point and end of my opening presentation, Mr Ivanovic's proposal and the Committee's consent to be Dr Dragomir Nedic's three candidates, is precisely the one to determine which of the vice-presidents of the republican public prosecutor will perform the role of the republican public prosecutor, as acting official, when he cannot do so. With this in mind (mostly - 10 votes in favour and three abstentions), the Committee on Justice and the Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives its opinion to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the proposal for prosecutorial functions - a proposal made by the authorising officer, V.D. a republican public prosecutor, and there is no obstacle to the discussion and decision of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard the opinion of the Justice and Administration Committee and we will keep it in mind when deciding on the resolution and appointment of public prosecutors. We continue a unique search on the proposals for decisions on the termination of functions, resolution and selection of judicial holders. Are any of the other MPs who have issued an opinion on the Committee answering their question? No, I don't. ) Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Mr. Pelevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11768	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this item of the agenda on the appointment and resolution of public office holders in the judiciary, i.e. judges and prosecutors, certainly did not deserve to be on the agenda of the extraordinary session of this assembly. We could've waited a few more days and it was in a regular session, but someone from DOS was obviously in a hurry to appoint judges and prosecutors to suit them. Serbian citizens expected an extraordinary session to deal with much more important issues for the lives of Serbian citizens, such as the apparent decline of Serbian citizens' standards in all segments of life, such as the problem with farmers who have been on strike for two days over the fraud committed by the agriculture ministry that the cost of the sunflower will be 15.75, and yet they have only given them 12 dinars. Serbian citizens expected an extraordinary session to be dedicated to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. (President: Please stick to the topic. ) This should be discussed, not on such non-essential issues for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on the rise of separatistism in Vojvodina, on Serbian living problems in the Rasko area and on many other problems of Serbian citizens. But we are still talking, unfortunately, about this topic at an extraordinary meeting of the Serbian Parliament. I express my respect for the honourable MP, Mr Pavlovic, who today has had the strength to point out to the Serbian public irregularities in the appointment of judicial, judge and prosecutor holders, and that is very commendable and very good. I think it's okay that he pointed out that for the presidents of district courts, there are certain people who have never been judges and that a man who is a self-prosecutor of the republic, or appoints prosecutors throughout Serbia. He didn't persuade me to respect Dr. Hiber with his frustration, because he was controversial in his explanation. He says the Justice and Administration Committee finds that it is not responsible for setting up a V.D. a republican public prosecutor, and at the end of his presentation, says the Committee has decided, however, that Mr Nedic will be v.d. Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia. I don't get it, and I'm guessing you don't get it, either. The question of asking judges is a very important issue and it is interesting that judges in Novi Pazar rebelled when someone from DOS wanted to ask Judge Zlatan Kurtovic as president of the Municipal Court. All the judges in Novi Pazar said they would resign and there would be no court office in Novi Pazar if it was set up. Just under the pressure of these judges, this proposal was left out of this proposal that we have on our desk today. Why the government gentlemen, DOS, act on the same communist principle as the previous government did. Why are judicial officials elected by party or party membership, why are they not the best judicial experts? Why don't our best judges and our best prosecutors be the best experts, not those people who belong to certain parties, or factions in DOS? It's not good for the judiciary and you're doing what the previous government did, and you swore you'd never do it like that. Is the main criterion for setting judges is that someone is a member of one, another or third party in DOS? It seems to be the main criterion, and that's not good. However, judges and prosecutors should act on that people's proverb: "Not by grandmother, not by uncles" and not by party membership. Let me give you a specific example. A concrete example is a public prosecutor from Kragujevac and a judge from Kragujevac who submitted a proposal to this Administrative Committee of the Serbian Parliament to confiscate the immunity of Ambassador Dr Canovic, and why? Mr. Canovic applied to the prosecutor and the judge himself and told them he would not call for immunity and that he wants it done regularly, without calling for immunity. But they, in order to reach the DOS authorities, have nevertheless submitted to this committee a request for his immunity. You were against your conscience yesterday, I am deeply convinced, voted to take away immunity from one doctor, or doctor of the medical school, one humanist, a man who is not at all guilty of the death of a child who died because he had a congenital tumor in his stomach. The man who was an infectologist and today, who was only a member of the consulate who examined him that day, and the child, unfortunately, died. And regardless of the grief and grief of his parents, I still have to realize that you made a deeply immoral and unconscious decision yesterday. But let it be a burden to your conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11769	Mr. Pelevic, that's yesterday's agenda, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11770	Because of your vote yesterday, because of today's confusion in the Committee on Justice and Administration, because of the exposure of Mr. Pavlovic to whom I deeply trust and because of what Mr. Dragor Hiber said today, the SSJ has no confidence in the proposals submitted by the Justice Committee. That's why the Soviets will be held back, and we won't vote for, or against your proposal, and I'm taking the opportunity to tell all those who are subject to appointments and resolutions, to give them my personal apology, but simply, your fates cannot be decided by the people who have proposed such a confusing solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11771	Do any of the other presidents... Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11772	Surely the speaker behind this speaker needs a lot of patience and determination to talk about all the events related to this extraordinary session, especially when it comes to this part of the agenda. I must first conclude that you were very zealous yesterday to be present in the number of 211 MPs, and that today you were barely picked up to be in sufficient number to be a quorum. So much for the attitude to yesterday's point that you had to do about today's agenda. Around this extraordinary session -- a lot of speakers said yesterday what to say. It is, since the judicial system is at stake, that everyone was expecting, after intense debates at DOS on crime and corruption, that they will have an extraordinary session on crime and corruption, and not just in your time, but 11 years ago. It suits us to do the same. Instead, we got a agenda yesterday that was suddenly, deliberately changed and the issue of immunity became the second item of the agenda. Everyone realized that essentially the second item of the agenda is the question of your testing and how complex you are to attack another, or the opposition, but it seems that you are not very complex when you're gnawing on the human bone between yourselves, and about this point of the agenda. Your polythyroids in their polythyroid, here at the centre, have delivered many different solutions for this agenda point, but what is behind it -- that is what Serbian citizens should recognize. In essence, the DOS wants to take over most of its parliament's leverage, not only the executive authorities, but Serbia's judicial system as well. That was the result of yesterday's agenda, that's the result of today's agenda. Both dots could have been automatically held in a regular session. But what happened? You made us sit here all day today because you didn't agree between yourselves who you were going to put in place for. You have cities where at the end of the first, then the second, and the third solution, one, the second, and the third, you have no solution for the human solution to agree between you. What's this about? The fact is that we live in a country where it is possible for the MUP to deliver video of certain events without any problem, which can not be evidence in the investigation process, but can be a compromising material for the individuals and the party they relate to. About the fact that it can't be evidence, I know it well, because my father was meant to be in 1971 that he allegedly cursed Tito and the party, and the tape recorder was supposed to be evidence. At that time, the communist state, in 1975, or 1971, said that secretly recorded tape recorders, and later video tapes, could not be evidence. The MUP in this country is obviously working on DOS's wings, giving compromise material to compromise people and possibly parties that bond. In such a country today, we need to choose more than a hundred holders of judicial functions. It's no problem that instead of those to whom the mandate has expired, we choose others. No one can say a word there. Such cases, those to whom the mandate has expired and others are elected, are cases that are normal and which we have to show trust or be held back, given our information from the field. Much more serious cases are when they are resolved by the functions of those who have not stopped their mandate. There is a great seriousness and we have all the letters of the president of economic courts, we have all the information from courts across Serbia, and indeed one normal and average citizen remains to rely on the honour of a large number and high percentage of employees in Serbia's judicial system, which is clear that not today, but tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, will be very good at watching what they were doing in situations when it is known what pressures are being put on them, when it is known to be said that 31 December and the couriers and judges are left without a job and that a new law on the judiciary will be introduced, and which is a kind of pressure also on judges. The fact that the presidents of the courts and others who settle before the term of office are an example of how others will pass, and they do not behave as they wish. That's the only way to interpret it in this country. What about the work results? Did anyone ask these court presidents what their results were? Has anyone been running any tests through reporting judges? Did your courts work well? We have all the data and you will hear in discussions of our MPs, the presidents of the courts who have dealt with more cases in the past year than they have received. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11773	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11774	My dear DOS MPs, you obviously have bribery and corruption in your head. This is about the number of cases submitted over the year, as well as the number of solved cases. I'm sorry that you're showing by your reaction that you're essentially in your head, not anything else. The number of cases submitted and the number of cases solved over one year paints a picture of a court. If the number of cases solved over one year is higher than the number of cases that have arrived in court for resolution, then it is said to be a good court in question, effective and up-to-date. So, all these presidents of the courts who are proposed to be resolved even though their mandate has not expired are essentially people who have been punished and for example how others who do not work on it will pass. Unfortunately for me, my colleague, Professor Hiber, said that the human structure has been largely changed. He said it proudly. I didn't take it that way. If someone through their politburos across Serbia, in the central politburo largely changes the personnel structure, in the courts of the president of the courts, then he says he has absolutely introduced a system that will work the way most in parliament, i.e. executive power does. We can't help but doubt it. The only thing we really have left to think about is the morality and honor of those who have done their job well to them so far and that and how they will think, that someone will soon appreciate how they did the job. Whether these changes were made as a signal with yesterday's activities, to sharpen the fight against corruption and crime, but not in the present but in the past. A special problem for us MPs is resignations, i.e. leaving on a personal request. It is well known what is said in the Palace of Justice here in Belgrade. It is known who bears the name of the first fighter, that the first fighters are on many tours from the Czech Republic to England. It is known that the first fighters in the Supreme Court and in other parts of the Belgrade court process talk to individuals during their tours and suggest resignations. It is known that, by proposing resignations, they are offered a legal process, i.e. the right to work as a lawyer. We will be very careful and we will vote for it against the resolution and those who have resigned and the information that one part of them has not done so willingly. It's not good that this is happening, it's not good that you rushed into an extraordinary session, where you had yesterday's and today's period, which you're not prepared for at all, nor have you cleared up with yourself. Your haste with these points speaks more of your intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11775	Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11776	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, for this part of the agenda, I would also, above all, speak in principle, and if I mention any examples, then it will only be for the sake of illustration, not because I would eventually try to pursue someone who deserves prosecution or someone who is not sure he deserves such persecution. Today we have one material, extensive material, that was delivered to us by the Justice Committee. This material is changing in the meantime, so we get a very large proposal for changes and additions, where we see how many cases the Committee has changed its mind in the meantime. These aren't general political principles, these aren't ideological principles, so today you're thinking like this, and tomorrow you're thinking about it. It's about living people. These living people, not that they were good for you a month ago, but they were your best, so you proposed them to very important judicial functions, to the functions of the president of the courts and to the functions of the judges. In the meantime, you remembered that they're not good people, so you're giving up on them, so this is how you humiliate them without telling us why you're giving up on one of these proposals. You suggested someone for the president of the court, so in the meantime you changed your mind, it would be correct in front of the National Assembly to come out here and say, "We thought he was good, in the meantime we found out that he did it and that or that he was. Every man sinth, so that he sinth not, and Hiber, which is made of error, and is created by after all. Nice going out and admit it, we made a mistake. However, he simply says without any explanation, it is deleted. The living man is wiped out, and the living men are wiped out, and there may be one forty of them, that I may not count to the end. They're just erasing people, and they've already been proposed, and the public has been informed that they've been proposed, and we've received all these names in the materials before. Journalists also received, within the framework of other congregation materials that are regularly delivered to them. What does this mean? This means that our Assembly Committee on Justice is at least very unserious and irresponsible and that it is not doing its job properly. I don't want to defend any names on this list. There may really be people here who don't deserve to be judges and presidents of courts, and maybe there are those who deserve it, but now someone, for political or ideological reasons, takes them off the candidate list. That's the problem. We had peace, not much trouble in the justice system. There have been corruption, there have been abuses of judicial function, etc., but in the past ten years it has not been a general, general phenomenon. Even if there were a lot of individuals who have sinned against the judge's norms, not all judges can attack. Still, over the past ten years, it's been much better than in the time of the titoistics. This behavior of DOS reminds me of the first year after World War II, when the communists entered Belgrade and first shot a crowd of intellectuals. Then the others forced them to serve them in the most primitive and despised way. For example, several hundred intellectuals, many Belgrade University professors during World War II signed that famous Nedic's appeal to the Serbian people. When the communists entered Belgrade, they shot a few, and the others recruited those people who signed Nedic's appeal to the Serb people during World War II, who were the greatest communist persecutors after World War II, because they had a severe stain in their biography and communist committees could abuse them for the dirtiest things. Now it's as if you're looking for judges who have something dirty in their biography, to reinfit them, to advance them, to place them in more judicial positions, because they will serve you blindly. You're acting like communists in the first year of World War II. It is not important for you to have a truly independent judiciary, it is not important for you to re-affirm the judicial branch of power, it is not important for you that the courts judge by the Constitution and the law, because here the minister of justice says - as long as they distract us with constitutionality and legality or says - it is not the Constitution of the Holy Scriptures. Well, when the minister of justice says so, how the other common mortals behave. We have a lot of evidence that the executive authority is in the anti-constitutional way meddling in the work of the judicial authorities. We have evidence today - today in the Fourth Municipal Court of Judges Ljiljana Mihajlović, constantly looking at it, looking at the country, because they instrumented it to judge the Serbian Radical Party, with the task of taking away legally acquired party rooms and that poor woman changing colors, looking ahead, obviously very frustrated, but judging that she was ordered and shortening the court deadlines and gaps between certain court sessions, in an unrecorded manner in our case-law. Maybe this is a little argument for you. I have a very big argument. The authorities reportedly discovered that JUMKO was selling masked uniforms to Shiptarian terrorists. Whether or not he was selling, and by chance uniforms were sold in the jumko store as they are sold in all other parts of the country. Whether it's true or not, I'm not going into it, nor am I interested in it in principle, as much as I'm interested in the fact -- when these jumko officials were brought before an investigative judge, he let them defend themselves from freedom. He estimated there was no reason for detention, and then Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic and that incompetent general, the ignorant Ninoslav Krstic, who knows nothing from his profession and the officer's profession, is the worst officer and therefore is the most needed for Americans. They've gone rogue in the media, as the judge lets the directors defend themselves from freedom. What happened after that? The terrified judges disprove their previous decision and make a new solution to the detention. That's the scariest thing that ever happened. It wasn't exactly how things happened in Tito's day. Remember when Gojko Djog was tried, some judges refused to judge, some went to lawyers, they kept honor and face, and some were embarrassed to the end. It is now such a fear among the judges that the judge who issued the solution to free the defendant and the suspect, once again gives a new solution under pressure from the Deputy Prime Minister of Nebojska Covic and General Ninoslav Krstic -- is being put in prison. It's proof that your executive power interferes with the judiciary in a highly illegal manner. Maybe the judge was wrong when he let the jumko directors defend themselves from freedom. Maybe they should've been put in jail, maybe they should've been convicted for a hundred years, but it's better when a judge makes a mistake and a guilty man gets out of jail than when the Deputy Prime Minister orders a judge to arrest himself. It's better that the guilty are at large than the one under the pressure of an executive in prison, and it's not known in advance whether he's guilty or not, and even if he's guilty, he can't go to jail by order of the executive. The executive power can bring an investigative judge and leave him with its fate without talking about the delivery of Slobodan Milosevic. Be careful, the judge whose jurisdiction Milosevic was in, does not even ask the question of who took his arrester. While Milosevic was in Central Prison, he was in charge of that investigative judge and no one else's. The coroner apparently didn't even know that he was abducted from prison and that investigative judge instead of asking the question of the responsibility of the warden of the prison, the minister of justice... (President: Time. I'll continue for the next ten minutes. So, the judge writes a request to issue his diaries and travel expenses to resume Milosevic's hearing in The Hague. That's terrible, amazing. I'm going to give you another example of how these things, unfortunately, stand with us. It should change, a new law on courts should be passed. Unfortunately, it wasn't passed in the last term because we, then coalition partners, couldn't agree on each other. The then minister of justice made one version, the government didn't pass, we returned it, and then there was no new version. The law must be passed, which will guarantee the independence of the judicial authority. Of course, relative independence, for the judicial authority will still have to be monitored in a certain way by the National Assembly, as are decisions of the National Assembly under the supervision of the judicial authority, and in this second case by the Constitutional Court. DOS authorities are not yet allowing Serbia's Constitutional Court to be completed. We still don't have the Constitutional Court and everything that's done is done on our own, because there's no possibility of calling, there's no possibility of disprovement of the general proper norms based on a violation of the principles of constitutionality and legality. Here we have the case of former Supreme Court Judge Radovan Coguric, who was resolved in the past term and is said to have been unlawfully resolved - not unlawfully resolved, but after his sentence for five months has become legal. By the jurisprudence of the verdict, he could no longer be the Supreme Court judge. One of you doesn't think that a man can be sentenced to five months in prison, go to stand the sentence, go back and be a Supreme Court judge again, and maybe even in prison to do the cases of the Supreme Court judge. Could not close temporary folder: %s That moment he had to be resolved. The man, Coguric, was sentenced to five months in prison with force because he ran over a woman in his car and that woman died. It was found that Choguric was under the fact of alcohol. The subsequent documentation proving the fact that alcohol was removed from the court files and after the change of government, it carried out with extraordinary legal remedies the abolition of the judicial verdict and the renewal of the proceedings. Now he needs to get back to the Supreme Court. Why do you need Choguric? None of you have ever heard that Choguric is a judge in his place, that he is a good lawyer, that he strictly judges by the Constitution and law. But it is important for you that he is compromised, that he has nuts in his pocket and that at any moment you can make him do the dirtiest jobs for DOS, as you have previously forced Doncic to make one final counter-constitutional and counter-judgmental verdict on the act of the Minister of Education and as you do in many cases in the same way. This Choguric can't be a judge, because, under the fact of alcohol, he stepped on his wife. You can forgive him for his punishment, you can pardon him, you can give him an abortion, but he can't be the Supreme Court judge. You hire him as a lawyer in the government. He can be a minister in the government, he can be the president of the National Assembly, everything can be, but he can't be the judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia or perhaps under your authority. As far as the prosecution is concerned, you have placed Dragomir Nedic here in an illegal manner as the perpetrator of the duties of the republican public prosecutor. Why didn't you immediately join the election of a new public prosecutor? We're just trying to guess the reasons. So, this one needs to be proven, it has to pay a certain price by breaking the Constitution and the law to deserve it. His brother, Nedic, vice president of Nebojka Covic's party, as the party is called, who will remember 18 names, and the third brother is the defender of Andrija Draskovic, who has so far been convicted of only one crime, and is linked to many crimes with a political background on Belgrade's asphalt. It's only yet to be established since the Arkan murder and beyond, and before the Arkan was killed. So, those three bros, they've got a nice schedule. Nebojsa Covic appears to be so strong that he can go to New York without informing Kostunica and Djindjic, so why not make his man a republican public prosecutor, so far V.D., as it turns out. And it didn't occur to you to relieve the district attorney in Zrenjanin, Dragan Arsic, although you yourself claimed that you had found that Glamocanin's group had been bribed in time, so that each member received 100,000 marks to repel and serve the Socialist authorities during the previous term of office. You have proof that Dragan Arsic received 100,000 marks, you will not relieve him of the post of deputy district attorney, because you will need one. And he's already been paid once, you have proof that he's been paid and you don't have to pay him again. It's perfect. I'm surprised you didn't make him a republican public prosecutor or at least his deputy. In these situations, the solution is to withdraw this material of the Justice and Administration Committee and to first pass the law on courts, to settle the situation in courts with the normative side, and then to make a new choice of judges on the basis of some general principles. We have a case -- you here in a few places not only suggest that lawyers become judges, it wouldn't be a problem in principle, but it's a little weird, because so far we've always had the escape of judges to lawyers, because a capable lawyer earns a lot more materially as a lawyer, but as a judge, it's easier to affirm, etc. The judge is, however, limited by his office as a civil servant, unable to choose the cases he will lead, according to which he will judge, and the lawyer is free to choose the lawsuits in which he will participate, to choose criminal proceedings and has much more opportunities as an independent body within the judicial system to affirm. Suddenly, we now have the escape of a lawyer in a judge, not as a lawyer will become a judge, but also gain court practice and eventually prove himself and eventually become the judge's president, but immediately automatically by one act he is appointed judge, and then the judge's president. It's still an inadmissible thing. Of course, there is little to consider as part of this and the state of law. And there's all kinds of stuff going on. Here, for example, Serbian Attorney General Branislav Tapuskovic accepts, contrary to the indictee's refusal to be a friend of the foreign court. The defendant, i.e. the suspect or accused, since some of the charges appear to have been filed, is our citizen, and this is a foreign court. Against the will of that citizen of ours, he agrees to serve a foreign court. It is an act of high treason, and such a man, such as Branislav Tapuskovic, would have to be deleted from every legal registry, not to remain president of the Bar Association. It's proof that we and our attorneys have disturbed the elemental moral values. Is there a lawyer here at the pay phone saying Tapuskovic should be against the will of the accused friend of the court? (votes: yes) This one is more immoral than Tapuskovic, if he happens to have one, that's for sure. Furthermore, we have here to treat the case of Slobodan Vučetic. Slobodan Vučetic was the judge of the Constitutional Court and was relieved of office because of the abuse of judicial office. He was a member of the G-17 plus, participated in public and political action as a member of the parapolitical party. It's not a political party in the right sense of words, but it seems to be registered as a political party and has its members in the federal government. It is Miroljub Labus and Vitosevic, minister of agriculture from the past. According to the public, they are there as representatives of G-17 plus. And then what happened? The Slobodan Vučetic allowed himself, to be engaged publicly, from anti-constitutional positions. Slobodan Vučetic supported Montenegrin separatistism publicly, with his texts in the press. As judge of the Constitutional Court, he supported the treading of the Constitution, and as judge of the Constitutional Court, he had to respect both the Republic and the Federal Constitution. Both are the Constitution for him. He supported Djukanovic's separatist policy. That's why he's been relieved. Now let's see who's Free Wolfetsic. Slobodan Vučetić is the second Jovan Glamocan. At the time of the communist dictatorship, Slobodan Vučetic was a member of the CK SK of Serbia, and I guess the presidency, and was a member of the last communist presidency of Serbia. He publicly stepped down from rigid dogmatic positions, opposing the introduction of a multiparty system. He was publicly involved in the persecution of free-thinking intellectuals, in words, although I have not heard that an intellectual was personally arrested or beaten, but in words he took part. Slobodan Vučetic was a parliamentary candidate for the Socialist Party of Serbia in 1990 and was defeated by Dragoljub Micunovic in Belgrade. When he was defeated as a parliamentary candidate, the then socialist assembly majority, chose him as a comfort to be judge of the Constitutional Court. So, political will. Of course, the matter is now another debate, with which all political will has come to the appointment of the Constitutional Court judge and as others have been appointed. And we can have a discussion about that. But after a few years, he turned away from his party, just as John Glamochanin turned back and kept his mandate. Did he get money in cash like John the Glamocan, 100,000 marks, apartment and mistress, UDB found John the Glamochanina and a mistress to make it easier to tie him up or in some other subtle way, I won't go into it. I can understand that Slobodan Vučetić was once a Rigid Stalinist, then became a Socialist, then evolved and became an antisocialist, and became a civil liberal, etc. But if he were a man of honor, the moment he went rogue from the Socialist Party, he had to return everything he got from that party. And he was given the office of the Constitutional Court of Serbia's judge from the party. I respect every MP, who leaves his party, does not agree with her policy, so immediately give her back her parliamentary mandate. But when someone leaves the party or gets kicked out, and they throw away the party, and they attack that party, and they keep the state office, which he got thanks to that party, then it's a man with no moral credibility. Such a man is Slobodan Vučetic, and you are now returning him at all costs to the Constitutional Court judge in an illegal and anti-constitutional manner. Now, that can't, can't from a moral point of view, but, from the aspect of violence that you're applying in politics, you can do anything. You can declare it Friday, put it to a vote and vote. It wouldn't be the first time you've broken the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure and all the legal principles. But it's mine to tell you that you're breaking it and that the public knows based on a convincing argument that you're really breaking it. Then you're breaking it to your will. Which is the way out of this situation - we must release the judicial system of influence of the executive government, not only by making judges irreplaceable, but by not being able to be members of any political party and which the court will not allow any political interference in the work of the judicial authorities. In order to achieve this, we must first reject this act that is before us. You see what happened a few days ago -- it was announced in the Federal Assembly that President of the Republic of France and war criminal Jacques Shirak was coming to Belgrade and that he would also speak in the Federal Assembly building, and we worked hard to rebel, providing evidence that he was indeed a war criminal, and the main evidence was a judicial verdict. And there's been a delay in the visit, whether or not it's something else, and we could discuss it. Jacques Chirac did not come, but rather the Supreme Court of Serbia abolished the first-degree verdict, and the judicial verdict, because there was no timely appeal, returned to the district court again, and then today the press reports that the district attorney has dropped both charges against Shirak and against Clinton, and against all other war criminals. And that's proof that our judiciary is instrumentalized. You are here now chasing a doctor, who, by accident or God's will, died a patient, and here, in the case of the murder of several thousand citizens of our country, against the law of bombing, by the aggression of the NATO Pact, you are liberating the main culprits because you are courting these main culprits. You have Vida Petrovic-Škero, the president of the district court, who orders judges to make judgments in a second-degree procedure, what verdicts will be made in a first-degree procedure, I have a whole series of evidence, I already have one prepared book of 1,000 pages, with concrete evidence. You'll get that book soon, you've got all winter to read. Don't worry about anything. Watch out, it's what's written down, it's what stays. Every judge should think about what judgment he puts his name on, so his grandkids won't be ashamed of him. No more keeping the verdicts secret, all judgments on the light of day, in front of the public, to be seen. You have one Leposava Karamarkovic, who organizes judges to attend seminars of foreign agents, where they teach how to judge against their people and their countries. You can laugh for free, but what is the English, German, French and others' interest in training our judges? We don't have bread to eat, they lied to you about that six-billion-dollar grant, there's no billions and three hundred million dollars, but it's important to them how our judges are going to judge. And I guess now it's a factor that allows progress -- how much of a spy seminar has ended, instead of what kind of lawyer he is, is he firm and stable as a person, is he ready to judge by law and by the Constitution, despite the dangers and threats they pose by the executive authority. You're not ready to change the qualitative justice system, change it for the better, you'd be able to instrumentsize it, destroy it, but fortunately, your power won't last long enough, so you can spend everything you've imagined to end it. In this case, the question simply arises -- who are the people who have proposed judges and presidents of the courts, which we received in the first material, to see where the proposals came from, and then to see who the people who have disproved these proposals are, on the basis of whose request is the decision to change the proposals, or to delete the names? We can draw a lot of conclusions from that. We are surprised here by Hiber with one new material after the break, and in this material he describes how this procedure was going around the public prosecutor, and in that material he describes quite in detail, he only lacks one thing -- there is no date when any letter arrived and when any proposal was made. Why are those dates hiding? There's a very important reason why they're hiding -- this material is so jumbled, so unserious, so contradictory, it would be a shame for the National Assembly to vote it all out. Therefore, I urge you to return the material to the Committee, to go first to the adoption of the new law on courts, so that when the new law is passed, one standard procedure is to be followed to the selection of judges and that the procedure be deprived of any interference of the executive authority, if we want to have a serious judiciary, if we do not want the courts to judge just as Dusan Mihajlovic instructs them, or another minister, if we want the courts to adhere exclusively to the law and to make every judge's law sacred.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11777	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11778	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have been participating in this debate for almost an hour, it has been marked with sufficient arguments, but they are too personal, and in my opinion too are the consequence of the knowledge of everything that comes from the regime that we broke up with on October 5th, so that they can be acceptable to us as the parliamentary majority. Why are we discussing this issue at an emergency session? Because this country has been awaiting justice for 60 years, because this society has been denied since 1945. In my opinion and in the opinion of the parliamentary group, this fact is a great delay. We will try in the debate and in the proposals that we went before parliament not to be personal, because I believe that most of you still have an opinion similar to mine, namely that justice reform, or change in its framework, cannot be done, given someone's fear of abuse of position, or, on the other hand, fear of breaking up with party premises, which are usurped, because the previous century and a half represented national heritage. For us here there are several issues of crucial importance - we need to find answers that describe the situation in our judiciary and we need to give a concrete and valid argument to the procedure applied in the candidate selection process that we will decide on during this session. The representatives of the opposition, who spoke before me, described, of course, their visions, the situation in the judiciary and, given everything they said, I don't think I'm going to be wrong if I say that they realized that the situation was bad. I also say that the situation in our justice system is bad. It has human problems, it has serious material problems, it has major functional problems, because legislation has been overcome. What are these human problems, who are responsible for them, to try to avoid similar analogies? How were the people found who took over the office of judges and prosecutors, how were those who decided our innocence, or possible guilt? Listen to your citizens, think about the results of the September and December elections last year and you'll have the best answer. In Serbia, the previous 60 years have not gone to justice, but to punishment for political disobedience, which was guaranteed because it stemmed from political devotion to those who determined the people in the judiciary. When we talk about a republican public prosecutor, his deputy, the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court of Serbia, we talk about institutions that were silent. When the arrested political representatives of the rival party -- Mr. Seselj or Mr. Nikolic, when university professors were out of work, when students were arrested, when citizens in conflict with police were brutally injured, where were they then legislators, and where were they at the time to assess someone's responsibility? They didn't exist, they kept quiet, or, worse still, they fingered the innocent. That's why you've been political losers for a year. If you want this society well, then you must recognize in what we are doing today the real weaknesses and participate in the process of removing them. That's where I move on to that other essential topic that we can talk about today. But again, I don't think that this conversation could end well for you as our critics, because today, it is true, we are applying the procedure that our predecessors have established. But we don't know how the previous regime worked, because we weren't his actors. We were killed under it. We don't even know how they came up with concrete solutions, because we've never been in a coalition with them, but we're meeting them today. What is this procedure that today comes to judges in Serbia or to prosecutors? It has been defined by law and we as parliament are obliged to respect this procedure until better and better-quality laws are passed. What's the difference between the procedure we've applied and what you've been applying? Because we've tried to take a step further and step out of the strict political level in which we've decided so far. How did we come up with concrete solutions? Very clearly, and your representatives know about it in the Committee on Justice. Your rule was and difficult to challenge today, because it rested on the law you passed, but it was not in its essence well. It is true what one of my predecessors said -- the full judiciary depended on the executive authority, on you who, in your opinion, created human resources policy. How did the judges ever delegate themselves? Who decided that? I'm going to show you the fundamental difference between this process and ours. The Justice Department has called a competition. He was public and everyone could participate in it. That's what happened. But the candidates that we are talking about today, besides the Committee on Justice and MPs, have previously been given their word by representatives of the expert public -- representatives of the Society of Judges, Bar Associations and Judges' Colleges. You mentioned here, as a contrasting argument, the fact that a New Market judge is exposed to criticism, withdrawn. But I think it's an argument that goes in favor of our justice. How can we know what lies behind a person? What way can we determine how someone became a judge, how and to what extent did he securely perform his judicial duty? The changes, whose witnesses you are, are the result of our subsequent knowledge. It's true we pulled some judges, but do you know why? Because, in the meantime, it turns out that, for example, they were actors of the 1996 election theft, because they turned out to be actors of the election theft last year, because they turned out to be representatives of the executive parties that made up the previous regime. Imagine that paradox - judge and member of the executive board of a municipality. And that was possible in this society. But if the changes in the judiciary are brought by the parliamentary majority to counter the parliamentary minority in every situation, then Serbia will never be a legally regulated country. That's why I see several common starting points in everything that's been said. Serbia needs a new law to regulate the judiciary. Serbia needs competent people. They can only be obtained by a procedure that will be laid down by a new law. Serbia needs a political readiness that will forever separate the executive from the judicial authority. The DOS parliamentary group insists on respecting these principles. The dilemma that we have been burdened with the public may be most prominently presented today. A representative of the DOS parliamentary group came out for this pay phone and showed, not intra-coalitial discipline, but a very clear and principled disagreement with something that is the consequence of the precisely inherited system within the justice system. It is true that we have a formal ambiguity about who actually proposed candidates for the prosecutor's office - v.d. the republican public prosecutor, Mr. Nedic. But Mr. Nedic himself said that today he doesn't have a formal confirmation that could confirm his status calling. However, on the other hand, and this is a paradox, we have a request from a 69-year-old who, contrary to all legal norms, performs or performs almost a function of V.D. the republican public prosecutor, Mr. Ivanovic. This gentleman asked the Republic Justice Committee to make Mr Nedic a V.D. a republican public prosecutor. That's the essence of this paradox. A person who has no right to do such a thing, she did. But what are the consequences? Besides, who else can do it? This congregation - no. Who could have done that in August of the month? Who's responsible for the payment of salaries under the prosecution? Who is responsible for all those numerous cases that would cause them to suffer? They're the paradoxes we've faced and we're trying to get rid of. (President:Time. I'll get into my second term. There's no party abuse in that. I call on you to be open, but not slanderous, through arguments you point to candidates who have a party omen and a party context. Do not call for an argument that does not have a name or name, because it is incorrect and unprofessional. Respect what comes from our efforts to create in everything a modern, reformed Serbia. You all know there's a package of laws in the public debate that will reform the judiciary. You're scaring the public with information that even the porters will participate in the competition. I don't think it's anything degradeable, on the contrary, that procedure will get us to the best, even if they're looking for a porter. The judiciary in Serbia, as long as there are political majority in this House, will seek a modern-defined judicial system, which will fully protect our civil rights. Politically, we can reason on some other opportunities. In any case, I urge you to act as your representatives in the Justice Committee have acted, that you participate in the debate in an argument, to point out the real shortcomings. I guarantee you that any argument of yours, such as that of the Vranj judge, will be respected. Our interest is not that Serbian courts are run by students below average, who were first hired in the 35th year of their lives. It is not our interest that district courts are presided over by people who have never entered the judiciary before. Our interest is a stable Serbian judiciary and we invite you to be our partners. I think it's the only quality way out for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11779	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11780	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the provisions of Article 24 have been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Section 4 of our Rules of Procedure discusses the education of parliamentary groups. Mr. Marsicanin, president of the National Assembly, politely informed us yesterday that new parliamentary groups were formed, new parliamentary clubs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. With this in mind, the MPs did not receive adequate information for insight. In addition, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic has been using for the tenth time a right he does not have. People's MPs who want to stay in the DOS parliamentary group must declare this, they must also send it to the MPs for insight. We cannot know on whose behalf Mr Cedomir Jovanovic speaks at this time. Does he speak on behalf of the Democratic Party MPs' club? As far as we know, the head of that club is Mr. Panajotovic. Does he speak on behalf of any other parliamentary clubs? So it's a matter of procedural character, not personal. And I simply ask the President of the National Assembly and the esteemed colleagues of the DOS to inform us properly, as the Rules of Procedure requires, who today makes up a parliamentary group called DOS. So, I ask the National Assembly to plead on the infringements of Article 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in order to put this matter where it belongs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11781	Now I really don't know how you read this Rules of Procedure. I do not see that this obligation exists anywhere, and the National Assembly has been informed and you could suggest in the hallway either to the secretary or to me or to anyone to deliver the list, simply so that the MPs have an accurate insight into who the members of the parliamentary groups are. A little time has changed, so now you can't get everything you've got before, but you're getting something else. I can only respect your suggestion and I believe that the Members of Parliament should have this information, but there is simply no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it is not a business obligation. (Rajko Baralić, from the post: Mr. President, I expect you to be a serious and smart man, and in the hallway we can dispute about some other things. This is Article 24.) Can you read me where this business obligation is? I will read the whole article: "The National Assembly is educated by parliamentary groups, as is the rule no later than seven days after the election day of the National Assembly President. The parliamentary group consists of the MPs of one political party, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have at least five MPs. A parliamentary group of at least five members can also be educated by association by MPs of political parties, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have fewer than five MPs. The parliamentary group shall be established by submitting a list of members to the President of the National Assembly... "well, I have that list, and you're asking to get it, but you're not the president of the National Assembly, you might be when I'm resolved. I've informed you of that. Next: "... submits a list of members signed by each member of the parliamentary group. The list specifically lists the president of the parliamentary group and his deputy," which you were also informed of, how could you not? You may not have been or haven't heard, but you've been informed, you can look at the stenographic notes. And, last member, "The People's MP can only be a member of one parliamentary group." What's that? Well, that! Now, where does it say to deliver the list? So, I find that there was no, so I'm giving the answer actually, and the Assembly can determine if we put it to a vote on your request. Are you satisfied with the answer? Yes, it is! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11782	Mr. Martian, on the fourth position of Members of the 24th Parliament groups are formed by providing you with an act with a list and a signature of members, and it is delivered to you because you are the first among the equals, because you are in command of the Assembly's multiplication services. If it is delivered to someone else in this congregation hall, perhaps the multiplication service will not listen to it, perhaps it will not be controlled. You're just the first among the equals. You outside this hall have no authority regarding the jurisdiction of the National Assembly prescribed by the Constitution. All you have is the authority to tell the service to multiply and deliver something to the MPs and order the Secretary of the Assembly, of course, to make sure it's done quickly and neatly. When you are informed, until it reaches the Messengers of the people, it is as though you were not informed either. You said yesterday at the beginning of the session that new parliamentary groups were formed, but it must be made clear what parliamentary groups they are, for the simple reason that we do not chase or mix MPs here. We don't know where who is; watch out, and in the halls when we talk, it's important that we know who to say and who not to, because he rats out and goes to Dusan Mihajlovic, etc. Here is one practical reason for you to identify members of all the parliamentary groups, and why are you avoiding it? You could have done it yesterday. Here, if it took you a day, we gave you that day yesterday and this question was not disturbed. We had a problem a few months ago, when your party formed a parliamentary group and it wasn't enough for you, you're still not gonna let us know, and then we don't know. Let's go down the halls, ask around -- it doesn't make sense. Every act here is delivered to us and everything obtained by the National Assembly must be multiplied for the MPs. Everything you get, except possibly some telegram that someone won't come to the session, so we trust you for a word when you read it, you have to multiply for the MPs. There may be no paper, there may be a photocopying device broken down, but then read us the names of the MPs of all the newly formed parliamentary groups, so we're going to use our hands here, and don't play the funny man here anymore, because that sure as hell doesn't work out for you. Anyone here before can be said to be funny, and you're not good at it, you're just being ridiculous. Don't make me look ridiculous anymore, because I'm embarrassed as a MP when the president of the National Assembly makes me look ridiculous.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11783	The reply to the remark, since it applies to the same member of the Rules of Procedure, is already given, and you have the database, if you can use it, so come in and see the lists. That's what your secretary can do. Try using it. Are you satisfied with the response regarding the database? You didn't? Then I put to the vote Mr. Seselj's suggestion that there was an injury to Article 24. I don't know what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 57, against 117 abstentions, there were no votes, 17, 191 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted Mr Vojislav Seselj's remarks. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Mr. Ivkovic, second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11784	This speaker is being told we need a stable judiciary. That's true, but we need an independent and autonomous judiciary. I'm sure that's the goal of each of us in this room. We have already learned to return 10, 11, 15, 20 and 30 years ago and it is certain that there have been gaps in previous periods. Surely there were also attempts by the executive authorities to influence Serbia's judicial system. The fact is that a huge number of employees in Serbia's judicial system worked with honor and congratulations on their work. The fact is, at least there was absolutely no public pressure on the justice system. Today, my dear comrades, on 18 September 2001, it has been almost 12 months since the DOS regime came to power, almost nine months since the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed. You said you had the law on the judiciary, that you had everything ready, and we didn't hear anything until today, except in terms of what would happen to the couriers and the judges on December 31st of this year, and that special elections would be called for all of them. It is true that it is good to look for a good courier, a good judge, a good prosecutor, but today's example, and today's agenda points, is negative for them. Here we have the views of 14 presidents of economic courts throughout Serbia. They were also signed on expertise, they wrote, in the proposal for a decision to elect judges and president of economic courts, they said, among other things, that opinions on the professional and other quality of candidates from the courts' colleges for which candidates are elected, which does not correspond to the truth. Such an opinion has not been requested from any commercial court. Then what was the criterion? What were the criteria for individual polythburo cells in municipalities and district committees to solve human questions. However, we see two, three, four, five changes, and at the end of the day none, as in the Whisper. What are the criteria then? Is it a stable and dependent judiciary or a stable and independent judiciary? You know, if we live in a country where government members have been allowing themselves since October 5th, not only from the portfolios of close justice, but from real estates, to arrest through the media, vice-presidents of the government, then Serbian citizens have the right to think about how immune and resilient employees in Serbia's judicial system can be immune and resistant to such pressures through the media? If we live in a system where criminal charges show up in one day in all papers, and today shyly at the bottom of the Policy, we find out that the district attorney's office has dropped the lawsuit against those who decided to bomb this country. I can understand why they're not suing Shirak, Blair, Shreder, let's say they need those crumbs from the donor table. Why they gave up Wesley Clarke, who wrote and signed that he made the decision to kill an employee in the RTS building. Today Dragan Milanovic is responsible for the murders. Our district attorney's office is dropping the suit against those who killed 3,000 Serbian citizens and there's no details why it gave up. Perhaps I can think that our district attorney's office has obtained from the English parliament and has given immunity to Blair, from the Bundestag of Germany, and they have given immunity to Shredder, not like you to Banet Ivkovic and colleagues Canovic. Well, to say, they got people immunity from their parliaments and we're dropping the lawsuit, Wesley Clark from the U.S. Pension Fund. Instead, we have a shyly written, however, the district attorney's office dropped the lawsuit, dear citizens of Serbia, against the champions of the NATO Pact, who killed 3,000 Serbian citizens, destroyed 18% of the property in Serbia's economic system and 128 bridges, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11785	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11786	I'm talking, my dear lady, about Serbia's justice system and Serbia's district prosecutor's office, which dropped the lawsuit at the same time as the SRJ lawsuit is in The Hague International Court of Justice. Is the next...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11787	I know what you're talking about, Mr. Ivkovic, but that's not the point. Please return to the topic [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11788	It also has something to do with today, because here when the minister of justice threatens me and says, just keep it up, because now I'm in his hands, whether I have a list of 14 presidents of economic judges, who wrote to the president of the National Assembly literally, the atmosphere created mainly by political reviewing the work of courts is a pressure on the judiciary and does not contribute to the independence of judges and autonomy of the judiciary. They wrote here what you were laughing at earlier, that all the economic courts, the number of cases solved is greater than the number of cases received in the current year, which says it worked out well. They wrote that they weren't asked about expertise, and then it's up to us, mortals, to think about what the criteria were for determining these candidates we're going to discuss. I want, because of the citizens of Serbia, to believe that it will still be people, mostly people who will and how they think that tomorrow someone will watch what they are doing today and think about saving their honor and their face. I want to believe that. But this is a negative example, because the presidents of the courts are being resolved, and no Falinka has been found to be wrong. Then it's also a negative example for a courier, who's going to worry about what's going to happen to him on December 31st, and for a judge, because someone who did a good job is getting rid of it. By what criteria and by what interpretation of justice and by whom does it resolve in the state, in which members of the government arrests through newspapers, in which media can publish criminal charges beyond the will of the investigative and other judges, in which they shyly declare that no one is blamed or even Wesley Clark? Then who in that country is going to share justice? Large courage in the judiciary should remain independent, because besides all the stories that no one is influencing, it is very well known how much time it spends in which government of the Republic of Serbia from the district prosecutor's office and from Serbia's justice system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11789	Is anyone else answering for a word from the president of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) First reported for discussion is MP Petar Petrovic, and next reported is Stavan Z. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11790	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we expected Serbian citizens and taxpayers paying for the work of this assembly at 3:30 p.m., when they turn on their televisions, to be able to listen to the debate on this agenda point. As foreseen on the agenda is the debate on resolution, the appointment of judicial and public prosecutor's offices. Unfortunately, we lost an hour and a half in some debates, which in my view were not fruitful and which did not contribute to better notification of candidates that we should vote today, or to give them confidence, to be the bearers of judicial and public prosecutorial functions. I guess the citizens of Serbia will know that they appreciate the elections, which will be in due course. I'm going to try to get the discussion back on the agenda that's here today, and that's to talk about the resolution and appointment of judicial and public prosecutorial officials. In some order of mine, I'm going to talk about the importance, in my opinion, of the faces that were proposed here by the Justice Committee. For those of you who don't know, to identify myself, I'm also a member of the Justice Committee, who's been considering these proposals before you today. In the first place, it is proposed that Mr. Slobodan Vucetic be appointed, that is, to be appointed today, to say so, as judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, by repealing the decision of this assembly since December 1999. That's what it says, if I'm not cheating. The question arises, under what legal act we are talking today, and what legal act we are due to repeal from December 1999. This act does not exist or is not delivered to me as a member of this congregation. There is only the December 1999 Assembly's minutes, which found that Mr Vučetić's term of office, or the office of judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, had ceased. After that, the esteemed Vučetic did not seek legal protection from any of the authorities of this country, where he was able to conduct a dispute, whether working or constitutional, etc. It doesn't matter, I wouldn't bid on it right now. So, at that time, he was where he was, a member of a non-political or non-political organisation that calls himself G-17 plus, who again now declares himself, at least according to the press, or in the press that there will be a political party in the elections, and at that point she declared herself a non-political organisation. So the question is, can we today as the National Assembly make a decision to undo an act that doesn't exist, to annul the finding? Does this mean that today we as the National Assembly, to make a little joke, will realize that it is raining outside, and that some other organ, or another convocation of this congregation after two years, will undo that finding and say that it was not raining, but was heating the sun. So the act de facto doesn't exist. There is another way, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Vučetic, whom I highly appreciate as a great lawyer and doctor of legal science, should the DOS majority consider him to be the judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which is simply that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Milutinovic, proposes it to this parliament, to elect him judge of the Constitutional Court and to be elected afterwards. However, again to make a small trip, one of my distinguished colleagues from this assembly says that the other day he tried to park a car outside the Serbian presidency building, where he should be president of the Republic of Serbia, and security wouldn't allow him to come to City Green to cut the grass, because there has been no car parking there for months and weeds have grown. Therefore, the role of the President of the Republic does not exist, so I guess for that reason, the proposal cannot come before this authority to elect me to judge the Constitutional Court of Serbia. The second function we are talking about today is Serbia's public prosecutor. I was present at the Justice Committee when it was decided on Mr Krsmanovic's request to relieve the functions of Serbia's public prosecutor, or the republican public prosecutor. We have complied with his request, resolved him and there is also a written document, where Mr. Krsmanovic has ordered that he be replaced by one of the deputy republican public prosecutor, Mr. Ivanovic. Meanwhile, Mr. Ivanovic's request to be relieved of his post as deputy prime minister of the republic's public prosecutor has arrived on a personal request, in order to meet the conditions for retirement. However, a new memo came in, where the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office's College ordered Mr Nedic to serve as a member of the republic's public prosecutor's office from three candidates. The question is, what happens if we don't resolve Mr. Ivanovic's post today as vice-president of the Republic Public Prosecutor for any reason... Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you, because you're still a minister, and I'm just an MP and I'm gonna tell you what I have to say and I'm asking you to let me say... And then Mr. Nedic will not be acting as the Republic Public Prosecutor. So, what Mr. Nedic signed, in my opinion, has no legal significance and legal power until we resolve Mr. Ivanovic. That's my opinion. When it comes to the election and appointment of the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions, I also asked the Committee if it is possible for all the presidents of the municipal and district courts to be resolved for one single reason - the dissuasion of the courts in the Republic of Serbia. Is it possible that at least one of these presidents of municipal and county courts is resolved for some other reasons than they're all put in the same basket? Others come to their places, against which my party and I have nothing personal, because we have always advocated, and now we stand up for the position of the President of the Court, the municipal, the district, the economy, in the Supreme Court, the most professional people. You know how these people will be elected, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? They will be elected by fellow judges of municipal and county, because they know best from their ranks who is the most disciplined, who is most capable of running the city's municipal and county court and where the president of the municipal or county court is elected. So, no explanation is given, and also, when you look at the material, you will see that there are a lot of lawyers coming back to the judiciary, conditionally speaking to the judiciary, to the seats of the president of the courts and the president of municipal and county courts. Until this assembly and the Justice Committee session, I was convinced that lawyers, honoring exceptions, had extremely good incomes, had gone to law school for reasons of bad wages in the judiciary. However, I am now surprised, and it means that there are good wages in the judiciary, and that lawyers make a very bad living, when many lawyers return from the law profession as judges, or the president of municipal and county courts. I think we should discuss this a little bit and take care of the future. Next, I think, it is about Mr Batic, whom I highly appreciate, that Mr Batic, as minister of justice and local self-government, should freeze his function in the party he is leading, because he still decides who will run for president of a municipal and county court, and the least of all, there must be a little subjectivism, that there is little cheer for some member of his party, and I don't think at this point it should be the minister who decides. In the end, I'm talking about depolitizing the judiciary. At least the last ten days have been filled with a newspaper title, beginning with Mrs Karamarkovic, and on top of that, unfortunately I have not got one memo from the Svilajnac municipality, where they say, quote: "The DOS presidency of the municipality of Svilajnac has decided to appoint this one and that one for the President of the Municipality of Svilajnac. "So it's not opinion, it's not recommendation, it's decision. Is that the depolitanization of the judiciary? Is it us who decide or some committees, as they are already called, and organs and organizations in the municipalities. In the end, and that would end, I think that in the future, when a competition is called for the presidents of any court, whether municipal, environmental, economic, should literally be indicated that a competition is being held for that and for that place, that people report to that place, that procedure is being followed, and ultimately, that the decisive word has colleagues and colleagues from those courts, who will consider all applications of candidates and that they have a decisive word on who will lead that authority. Still, the president is only the first among the equals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11791	I give my word to the Minister for Justice and Local Self-Government, Mr Vladan Batic, on the basis of Article 88(6). You have 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in relation to the presentations of the president of the parliamentary clubs now by the opposition party, and once a participant in the exercise of power, I must say that I thought that some people were acting like Alice in a wonderland. Those who have violated the judiciary by principle - cadiya and sued them, when they are judges - who have for years violated the Constitution, the law and the rules of law of this assembly, who have allowed the mounted political processes against the leaders of opposition parties, owners, directors, editors and journalists of independent votes, those who have driven them out of the judiciary to lawyerure or other jobs, and those who did not want to go to the bar and who left the judicial office with the will of the assembly majority, those who have organised electoral thefts through courts, whose main protagonists, screenwriters and directors were justice ministers and Supreme and other courts, are today talking about an independent judiciary, respect for the Constitution and the law, about allegedly mounted political processes, concerned about the fate of judges, about their claims and the authorities, etc. It is mentioned here that candidates for the presidents of the courts are proposed people who have never been judges. There are very few such people, only a few of these many suggestions. A number of people were proposed who were lawyers, and most of them worked in the judiciary once and were judges until they were expelled from the judiciary to law enforcement. And even if they were never judges or lawyers, the law does not restrict them or prevent them from being judges or judges. I must also say that we are witnesses of statements and the President of the Supreme Court and the Vice-President of the Supreme Court, and the leaders of the judiciary, that there is no pressure of an executive on the judicial authority and the delusion is fraud, deception and a lie that anyone has been expelled from the judiciary. Gentlemen, no one has been expelled from the judiciary, only changes in judicial and administrative functions have been done during this time, changes in the president of the courts. It is very possible, you can read the law a little bit, there are only a few sentences that determine it, you can also see the decisions of this Parliament -- no one has been relieved of the judge's duties. Only some people, for those reasons that I have mentioned earlier, are no longer the presidents of the courts, most of them have expired and cannot otherwise be the presidents of the courts. So no one was hit on the street. Mr. Ivkovic, it's not true your story that 31st everyone is out of a job. It's fraud, deception and lies. You have to interpret the law differently than lay, if you don't know, then ask the experts. This is the proposal for a law on courts, which is in line with the regulations of the European Union, the Council of Europe, because all laws and regulations must be harmonised with European Union regulations, because we live in Europe, in the 21st century. The working group of the most competent judicial experts, from the judicial authorities, from the Faculty of Law, has drafted a draft law on courts, which has been under public debate for more than two months. I hope that this document has received all the parliamentary groups, it has also been published through the means of information, etc. So, it's not about losing a job, it's not about anyone going out on the street. Of course, I'm saying this regardless of the fact that, not wanting to replicate an honourable fellow MP who was last speaking, the minister is not proposing. He has no authority to propose, as you know, and all these are the proposals of the Committee on Justice and the administration of the Republic Parliament. Everything the minister does, and you're also at the Justice Committee's meetings, it's a call for competitions and obtaining opinions from judicial colleges. As for the reason for the resolution of individual judges, not those to whom the term of office stands, because it is normal to have some other people or the same people elected, there are examples, I don't know how many, people from the Justice Committee know, but quite so far the presidents of the courts have been re-proposed for the presidents of the courts, which means that people who, with honor, honestly, responsiblely, have done their job in the spirit of the law, remain in that place. I'd like to say one more thing: There really isn't any U.S. Attorney's office. The best evidence for that is that, despite the fact that the government was formed just over eight months ago, practically no haranga and hajka has been done for all that time, because if it were, people would have been changed in a week or two days, and it wouldn't have lasted exactly one positive selection for months. Furthermore, the basis for resolution is the results of work, which in many courts are disastrous. Unscheduledness, participation in electoral commissions, organised by electoral theft, inadequate conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration, is presented in the Committee on Justice with absolute accuracy with the percentages, which show it in the best way. I want to say one more thing, how it all worked once before, and what irregularities in the work of the judicial authorities. It was awarded past the procedure from 1997 to 2000 in 486 apartments and housing loans. The funds from the court taxis have not been transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The purchase of computers and technical equipment of 1,600,000 marks was carried out under suspicious circumstances. The budget inspection carried out surveillance, filed criminal charges for both apartments, and for computer equipment, and everything on that plan was done. I also want to say, and the pronoun claims that the judiciary is breaking down and that people are running into the street, that maximum efforts have been made to improve the material position of the judicial employees. It's probably all, of course, modest, because our empty cash register is inherited, budget funds are modest, but they're probably the biggest increase in personal incomes, salaries or contributions in the judiciary right now. The increases by six months ranged from 43% for individual categories of judges and judges of the Constitutional Court, up to 164% for those who had the lowest privileges, often mentioned couriers, maids and the like, whose incomes were increased by some 164%. I wish we could live in a country of prosperity and hope to go slowly that way and that the real judiciary will rise to the level of becoming one of the pillars of government in the state, where there is a normal division of legislative, executive and judicial power. Indeed, maximum effort is being made and it shows maximum goodwill to get out of the situation in which Serbia was probably the only country in the world, in which the Supreme Court did not have its own building, and the President of the Constitutional Court was not a lawyer but an economist. I have to repeat that, because unfortunately, that's the legacy of the past we've found. So there's no trick, there's people working on the most responsible functions, and we've said it countless times, and of course we want to affirm the free and independent judiciary. Therefore, for another time in the public debate, there will be a law on courts and judges, with the acceptance of all well-intentioned objections, which go in the direction of the affirmation of a free and independent judiciary. There have been a lot of objections from the expert public, for example, to territorial jurisdiction or to the courts of general jurisdiction, since the proposal reduces the number of courts of general jurisdiction, above all on the municipal level. There are legitimate objections and we have called on all those who can make a significant contribution to their objections, suggestions and suggestions to be incorporated into the law on courts and judges and to really go through the affirmation of a free and independent judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11793	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11794	Mr. Minister has allowed himself to express a term qualification which is not exactly like the communication between the two gentlemen, and that's why I called in the word. I answered because the president of the Assembly Committee, Mr Hiber, said the next sentence. "A large change in personnel structure." He, like any university professor, has shown his desire to change the human structure, that young people get a chance to work, engaged, unburdened by some earlier solutions, and that is certainly something that should be supported absolutely in practice, that youth gets a chance to do responsible jobs creatively. Surely every citizen of Serbia also welcomes the message, lastly, Mr. Minister, that it is absolutely necessary to seek an independent, absolutely independent judicial system of Serbia, as one of the basic pillars of the Serbian state, a country in which the economy will work much better, in which the standard of citizens will be higher. However, much that has happened in the last 11.5 months points to this, and for this reason I have said what I have received from that qualification, such an echo from the pay phone, that the term - changes - have been interpreted in the system, offering crisis headquarters and introducing its kind of crisis headquarters and Serbia's judicial system. It is known that the first fighters, who have been returned, have been treating the people they have narrowed down in Serbia's judicial system in recent months, however, between their two professional studies, from the Czech Republic to England. The fact is that the paper said that the proposal, in the draft law on the judiciary, stipulates that on December 31st, o.g. All employees in Serbia's judicial system stop working, and two months earlier, under the new judiciary law, a competition will be called, based on whom people will be admitted to work. Of course, competition can be applied to those who are currently employed, as well as those who are not employed, so they will be competitive. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister if we really don't want to see the lies coming from this pay phone, to tell us what's true in some current version of the draft law on the judiciary. I am interested in it as a citizen, and that he understands why it is a very dangerous story, that it ends on December 31st, that everyone will be in competition, because if 14 of the presidents of the economic courts sign what they went through and if there is no evidence, they will be resolved before their mandate expires. It is clear that then Mr Hiber's sentence on changes in the human structure can also be interpreted in the sense in which we have information from the field about major DOS conflicts over human resources solutions. The only thing we have left to believe is that the newly admitted, who will be voted here, will take care to preserve their face, as well as the huge number of those who are now in Serbia's judicial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11795	We're continuing a unique search. The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11796	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I've been getting these suggestions for a few months, which you've been doing so much at the beginning of this debate. The head of my parliamentary group has said that the committee is being re-elected and to write us what it really proposes, all together, because in the end we won't know what we're voting for, because we've got this much material, and half of it isn't valid. Half of your people were mistaken that there would be something, and then you dumped them, so they're nothing. Mr. Hiber, who, unfortunately, is a professor of the university, says here: "You don't touch the personal dignity of the President of the Courts" - and you kick them like a rag, because you say that their courts are impeccable, you peel them off and you replace them, and you don't bring out a frittata of fact, not in front of the board, and especially in front of the Assembly, and then he says it turns out that someone was wrong to go to college with him for a lecture, and it's hardly that he could teach him anything smart. So he tells us here, and he stays alive once more, that the board hasn't made any more serious mistakes, he probably thought that everything they've been doing was unserious, so he can't make a serious mistake. Mr. Jovanovic was saying here something that you didn't find at the beginning of the session, and this, and the Federal Parliament, when you first thieves, murderers, criminals and terrorists amnesty, you haven't found political prisoners in an arrest, and now there are as many of them as you want, so at this point there are the most political prisoners, since the time of the Golog Island, in democracy. The one who left earlier, and he too, the minister, convinced us that in all of this he only turned out to be a technical secretary, the man called the competition and picked up the papers and gave it to the board. Who's naive, are you DOS naive or is he naive? The rest of us can hardly get caught up in such nonsense. There was talk here, the chairman of the board talked, and the minister also talked about how college opinions were sought. Maybe they are somewhere, but mostly they're not. So he lied to the minister, he lied to the board president. Unfortunately, people have names and titles in front of them, inappropriate. Because, for the Business Court in Novi Sad, it says so - at the College of the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad, which was held on September 7th (meaning it was the other day, and remember when we received the President of the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad, and now you are kicking him from that place) it was unanimously concluded that the College was speaking to us in writing about the alleged claim made by the decision on the proposal number and that, from July 20th (meaning, almost two months before, which you did not even ask for), which refers to the work of the judge and the President of the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad. It must be qualified as flat-rate and untrue, or if we want Serbian, as a lie, because this Business Court in Novi Sad in 2000 on average ended 1,295 cases more than before, than in 1999, which is even for 378 resolved cases than those mentioned in the same period for other business courts in Serbia and a series of other things. It is also said - given the fact that the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad in 2000, and especially since the time of entry into office of the current President of the Court, by law of prescribed jurisdiction, has in fact achieved about 1/3 of the intended judicial staff, the information on all the results of the work, as well as the total engagement of all the employees, gives us the right to evaluate all the work of the President of the Court as successful so far. And that there was no division of the case of the "trange france", as stated in what you provided, also the general claim made by the Justice and Administration Committee on the alleged distribution of cases by criteria, past the law and rules of procedure, and that, in relation to the judges and president of the Court of Justice in Novi Sad, was devoid of any basis. The College of Courts considers that the general assessment of the work of the courts in the Republic of Serbia cannot be a reason for the individual resolution of the president of the courts before the time they were elected. In particular, it concerns a conscious circumvention of the Law on Courts, Article 46 to 48 concerning Article 29(6). The law, the prescribed procedure for their resolution. Maybe most of the ones you suggested, which, like, have no political omens or their criteria were that they studied as our friend Chad. And this Mr. Master Mile Korać, who was President of the Business Court in Novi Sad, and as of today, there will be no, because you will make the decision - was born in 1960 and graduated from the Faculty of Law already in 1982. So, he was in a hurry, not like some of them who studied for seven or eight years, to establish the material, so he passed a judicial exam and became a judge in 1985, so in 1987 he went to the district court, so he was elected judge, so in 2000 he was elected judge and president of the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad. Based on all the facts that stand and exist, you have a very flimsy argument for this man, except for what probably belongs to the ones we've seen, in one material that's already been presented here, that they have this flaw that they haven't accepted. About how it went: the Batics asked - if you don't want to be ours, you won't be. Some of them had a more liberal attitude, so they said, if you're with us on business advice, be a non-party person, you'll be a judge. So everyone you suggested has a clear and loud political code. Don't tell other stories. If you say I'm lying, you find that Mr. Korać was not a member of the SPS, or the organisation that was baptized as the seventh month, etc. So, he doesn't care about those labels to wipe out a last-time commie. Is that perhaps the most terrifying assessment of the New Sad court? One statement by Mrs. Leprechaun Karamarkovic, which you have put here to be the main one: "Mr. Mile Korać is certainly the three best men in the Novi Sad judiciary. "Is it then an estimate that only two are worth, and since the third is worth nothing. It can be drawn from a conclusion like this. If he's three, and that third's worth nothing, then what's it about? So, tell some other people this isn't political. But we heard your newspaper (mostly because there are no others), said that there were recommendations being made somewhere, and somewhere your DOS company's decisions were being made, on the ground, which determined who was going to be. The only thing that happens to you is that even in some cases, the ministers don't listen to what comes down and then they suggest something else, and then you rebel. So probably these 40 changes in name. These will be what we've won since we won, and then they won't be anymore. So someone managed to get someone to cut off, take off the head of someone you suggested, and someone survived. To comment on your Belgrade judiciary's decision not to judge these white-world hohstapplers... (Glass from the O.R.: Which is boring.) Go as far as you want, sister. You're probably in pain. And it hurts me, because those who killed so many of our people, who destroyed so much of our property... Bald, don't spread your arms. You're saying they shouldn't be handled. It's probably part of what you got for the task, among other things, that it's not their fault, but that it's all the former government that killed those people, that all the bridges were destroyed, so probably, by that principle and the one in America, at the mall, to go into abs, and the one from the Pentagon will go into abs. They'll apply your criteria. So those to whom it was torn down, they're guilty, and those who destroyed are innocent as a newborn. It's an honor, if you have it. I doubt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11797	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. After him, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a very large proposal, a large one, in which it is at the heart of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. The debate began by a representative of the ruling parliamentary group in this assembly giving a clear order to one of the judges, a judge who judges in case of kidnapping of the Serbian Radical Party's premises, and said the premises must be hijacked from the SRS, because they have been a national treasure for 150 years. Imagine a judge who had to learn a lot in life and gets a warrant from a man who, for example, doesn't know that Zemun only entered Serbia in 1918. Well, if a building is a 150-year-old national treasure, if it's only 80-year-old national treasure of Serbia, then the question is whether it's protected by the national treasure of other countries, as you've done since you came to power? It was said here that Serbia was fortunate to change power on October 5th, and I am telling you, although I know that many people are looking at it today in Serbia, although I know you're going to gravitate -- where lucky that Serbia has not changed the regime on October 5th. It's not exactly the gravitation I was listening to a few months ago. I wish that regime was no good, and this regime is much worse. Why can't we today discuss neither the proposal in general, nor the individual, the proposals I'm going to make here? Because the chairman of the Management Board of Telecom has deceived the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia. Today, in response to my objection that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been injured, by including proposals in the predetermined agenda in the course of yesterday and today, past the business provisions, he said it was exclusively about removing certain proposals. That's not true. I'm sorry that the one who's acting as a promoter isn't in the O.R. For example, the proposal for the district court in Nis, this amended proposal, can no longer be on the agenda today. The proposal for judges from Zrenjanin to Loznica, which was amended yesterday, cannot be on the agenda today. Proposals for Judge of the Constitutional Court - Slobodan Vučetic and Judge of the Supreme Court - Čocuric can not be discussed today. They weren't in the draft agenda you signed, I think there are 126 of you, and based on your request, this extraordinary session has been called. In February, we already had a case like this, in the case of Leposave Karamarkovic, it is possible that there have been other such cases that we have annulled the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to which the judge's term of office has ceased. But that was the 7th item of the agenda of the extraordinary session and was specifically requested by the signatures of a minimum of a third of the MPs in the National Assembly. The draft agenda, which says the proposals for decisions on the termination of functions, resolution and selection of judicial holders, cannot be discussed, in itself, that it contains the annulment of two decisions by the National Assembly. These must be special points of the agenda. If they were proposed by the number of MPs required by the Rules of Procedure, they could be discussed. You can't discuss this today. It's terrible to read what the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee wrote. Would he let his student take the exam to explain one thing to him? In the end, he says the Justice Committee has no right to decide who is V.D. a republican public prosecutor, but there was a man who introduced himself like that. Of the number one, two and three, he was number one, so the Justice Committee says, I guess whoever's number one, he'll be the first. Well, maybe they'll change if he doesn't answer the first one. And the other one, the third one, they're waiting for this first one to get tired or, say, to show he's serviced enough to really be a republican public prosecutor. It cannot be fixed by you in the territory of the municipalities, within DOS, to negotiate who will be the president of the courts, who will be the judges. I read in stenographic notes from the Justice Committee's session, that the judge you have now proposed not to be elected had the support of Ministers Rasim Ljajic and Vladan Batic. It seems to me that Ivosevic, that judge of yours, the Supreme Court of Serbia, said that. Describing the proposal, he said, "The ministers Rasim Ljajic and Vladan Batic stand behind this proposal." You are not listening today to Ministers Rasim Ljajic and Vladan Batic. Since I know them both, I know why you don't listen to them. Then why did you choose them as ministers? They don't deserve that people's trust. The situation in the judiciary can't be fixed by being completely free of responsibility for the bombing in which our children were killed. He can't. If your families were taken care of, safe, you can't on behalf of those families who weren't taken care of, who weren't safe, in the name of those people who waited with a rifle in their hands for the NATO pact to disembark and those who were over their heads howling sirens, you can't as representatives of Serbian citizens past their will, and you've seen what their will on America's fate looks like, to say that they didn't bomb us, that they were terrorists, that they didn't kill us...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11799	Mr. Nikolic, where did you find the bombing on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11800	I don't listen to you at all, Mr. Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11801	I don't like you either, but when something like that gets tough, which is out of the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11802	How do you know what I'm saying when you're not listening, Mr. Martian?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11803	Well, there's something in my ear that's not really a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11804	When something else comes in, let me know if I can get someone to pull you out of it because you don't deserve any better. They only fight over the board the way you fight with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11805	I'm not arguing, I'm just giving you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11806	You can do whatever you want, I'm used to worse things. Don't forget, this is an extraordinary session, and it can be worth it to you until I finish my speech, because I have no reason to answer the word anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11807	But you didn't have a bigger reason for the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11808	Think about it, Mr. Martian, I watched you bravely attack Djindjic and his bulument, and yesterday you told me you weren't attacking them as president of the National Assembly, but as vice president of the DSS. Think about it, Mr. Martian. If you see yourself double in the mirror, you don't have to act like a double personality, I guess your psyche isn't that messed up. And so, let me finish, because you won't listen to the arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11809	I'll try.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11810	We've had party judges and party courts, now we'll have NATO judges and NATO courts. With these proposals, you are completing a work that has been ordered by the NATO Pact, to fully take over both legislative and judicial power. Until now, he had no judicial authority in his hands, it was held by the country's ruling oligarchy, largely, but the NATO Pact had no judicial authority in its hands. The NATO pact is consecrated to the NATO evildoers of the pact on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, when judges had the courage to say who was the villain and who was the victim of the terrorist attack. Now you amnesty them and you're still bringing in judges, and I don't have time to read to you about what Slobodan Vučetić said while he was a judge and now he's preparing for a judge, whose sole goal is to break the SRJ. At the time of Milosevic and Djukanovic's fight, Vučetic accused Milosevic, and Montenegro was wonderful then. Now, at the time of the fight between Kostunica and Djukanovic, it is now a good Kostunica, not a good Djukanovic. In any case, the task of Slobodan Vučetić which you... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... A graduate economist as secretary of the City Justice Committee's party committee proposed to the President of the Constitutional Court, is the one who is the most responsible as your economist is the President of the Constitutional Court. In any case, such a man, who was ashamed to complain about the decision of the National Assembly that was dismissed from the seat of the Constitutional Court, you are now returning after two years, and did you even ask him if he was having a hard time for these two years while he was on the same payroll as many of your MPs, and the money came from Segedin and Budapest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11811	The word has a folk MP, Zarko Obradovic, and then the MP of Zivodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11812	Dear Mr. President, the Presidency and fellow MPs, today we are talking about changes in the judiciary, termination of functions, resolution and selection of judicial officials at the extraordinary meeting of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This should be in line with the importance of this issue, as well as the fact that we discussed this issue as a congregation in this congregation once or twice already during the spring. A fundamental question arises for both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia -- whether the changes in the judiciary that will be done today, or those that have already been done, will mean a better, greater legal certainty, the rule of law, the construction of an independent competent legal system, in one word, be a step forward in relation to the previous situation. If judging by what has been done so far by the DOS government, the answer is negative and today's resolution and appointment will be difficult to change, except up. My assessment also confirms the results of a public opinion survey published a few days ago in the press, which show that 51% of Serbian citizens are particularly dissatisfied with the work of existing authorities in the establishment of the rule of law, only 14% are satisfied and the rest is unspecified. It is an increase of around 20% of dissatisfied Serbian citizens, compared to June this year. This huge dissatisfaction of Serbian citizens is due to the situation in which our rule of law is located, as a result of the way people are elected in the judiciary, where the DOS's criteria are dominant compared to the professional criteria. This is also due to the way you work, you will hear, fellow MP, holder of judicial functions, that is, how they apply the rules they are required to apply. In Serbia, there is no division and independence of the judicial authority in relation to the executive and legislative and everyone interferes with the business, and at least what should be theirs. How can it be talked about the rule of law, when the work of the Republic Constitutional Court has been blocked through the will of the DOS for several months, in order to avoid constitutional and judicial control over the work of the Assembly and the Government. How to speak about the rule of law when a citizen, the previous president of Serbia and Yugoslavia, Mr. Slobodan Milosevic was arrested without a court order, then, on the basis of one anti-constitutional and illegal decision, kidnapped from an investigative prison and delivered to The Hague tribunal. No one in the judiciary had the courage and professional honor, and especially the bearers of the most responsible functions, to condemn one such act. Listing unresponsible, irresponsible, unprofessional statements by the ministers and prime minister of the government about the judicial authority is almost impossible, as many as there are. However, curiosity works, should mention a statement by the police minister who is likely to be perfectly familiar with the situation in Serbia's judiciary and the people working there, said courts in Serbia could prosecute war crimes indictees. Instead of investigating and solving increased corruption and crime and solving at least one of the 12 unsolved murders committed this year, he talks about Serbia's judiciary. The desire by the Ministry to interfere in the work of the rule of law, i.e. to influence it, tells us that the Ministry should seek the government's consent to act, to apply the law and the judicial decision and to arrest the terrorist Thaci, who, by decision of the judicial authorities, was sentenced to 10 years and that of our judicial authorities. Dear fellow MPs, the most responsible people in Serbia's judiciary are replaced without criteria, with disrespect for legal provisions and application of the DOS criteria, as the only universal and only valid. This is also confirmed by a letter from the president of business courts in Serbia a few days ago, who claim that there are a number of examples of procedural and fundamental failures in the court's decision-making process, as the claim that the political review of the work of courts, presidents and judges is a pressure on the judiciary and does not contribute to the independence of judges and the autonomy of the judiciary. Its specific indifference in the work on the resolution and appointment of people in the judiciary was also manifested at a session of the Committee, which was requested to remove from the already established list of candidates the President of the courts in Novi Knežvac, Arangelovac, Kraljev, Novi Pazar, Alibunar, Kovacica, Piroth, Žabovica, Rekovac, Šapac, Loznica or today in Nis. And what does running look like? As the candidates for judicial functions are elected, it says: when the judges were proposed, they heard on the Committee on the First Justice and the Administration that all DOS members or most of them agreed on a proposal for the choice of judicial authorities, or that local authorities, of course DOS, insisted on a particular proposal; no one tried, or almost anyone, to say about the quality of the proposed candidates, their working experience, the number of solved or unsolved cases, the reputation, moral and professional, which they enjoyed; in essence no one talked about it, it was important that agreement was reached within the coalition. What kind of candidates are there and what experts are talking about are information that could be heard on the Committee, as well as can be found by looking at this material. Among the proposed candidates for the presidents of the courts are those who were never judges, ten or eleven, who were not judges. A lot of candidates, over 30, are not from the court they're proposing. Professional qualities are provided with data on the average rating and length of study. For the presidents of the courts, the example is submitted to candidates whose average is 6.71, 6.33, 6.68, 6.56, 6.16, and so on, who have studied Law School for 8.9 or 10 years. Some candidates, with few years of work, have been proposed for the presidents of the courts, meaning very responsible duties. Some have been assessed as unprofessional, some unsuitable as individuals, or are being prosecuted. The way candidates were proposed, about decision-making, bias, party control, also talk about data that could be heard on the Committee, that bigger or smaller candidates were reached around the proposed candidates, but in any case the consent of the DOS, that they agreed on candidates. As regards the expert public, at one session of the Committee, a representative of the Supreme Court expressed his mistrust with the candidate for the president of a court, the proposal was withdrawn, in order to show up again at the next session, this time as a proposal from the Ministry of Justice and local self-government and, of course, the parliamentary majority, or the majority in that committee, of this proposal, that the next session of the Committee would be withdrawn. Political loyalty to DOS has turned, unfortunately for Serbia and its citizens, into a basic criterion in the judiciary. That is why it is not surprising that the promised reform of the judicial system has turned into a mass shift of hundreds of people from judicial and prosecutorial functions. These people didn't get DOS support. They did not receive their party support or refused to comply with DOS party requirements. I am not convinced that the changes in the judiciary, the prosecution and the courts, which the assembly majority will vote on, will mean anything in a positive direction for Serbia. That, I hope, is what the Socialists are convinced of, and the citizens of Serbia. That's why these changes can't get the support of our Socialists. In the end, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, when electing the government and representing the programme, said the government's goal was to establish an independent judiciary as one of the pillars for control of the government. Since it is evident that there is nothing from an independent judiciary, and that confirms citizens' opinion, it is logical that the state is the way it is for us, with corruption and crime at every turn and, of course, without the ability to control the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11813	The People's Messenger, Živodarka Dacin, has the word, and after that, the Messenger of the people Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11814	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been about nine months since the new government was established and since all the resolution ministries were formed, and so has this Ministry of Justice and Local Self-Government. I would say that in the pre-election promises and our elected government, as well as the resolute ministries had a very affirmative effect on the citizens, so I have to admit to me, and these are citizens in the end with their votes and showed, and so the DOS gained the confidence of the majority and was given the opportunity to rule and to correct all the bad actions of the last regime. In the area of the Ministry of Justice, what is most important, significant reforms have been promised in the judiciary, an independent judiciary was promised, so a judiciary that will be freed from the influence of any layer of political option or perhaps political domination. Of course, there is no significant increase in the standards of court employees, so that people are simply relaxed and able without any pressure or burden to make their decisions right. We heard from Minister Batic that there was little increase in the standards of court employees, but knowing people in their midst, I know that it is absolutely not enough and that it cannot meet the needs for the responsibility of the work they are dealing with. Of all this, we have today, as on several occasions so far, just some few personal needs where in two, three sessions back, we talked about changing some functions in courts or in the prosecution, in all courts by hierarchy. So, practically all the judicial reform that existed, I think nine months is still enough time to start to feel the first results of the promised programme. In this, the reform has narrowed down practically to the mass shift of people with judicial and prosecutorial functions. Even people who have never had experience in court, in the prosecution, or in the D.A.'s office are brought in. A question I didn't really want to ask, but I was glad, because I just keep expecting every minister and anyone who comes out to say that the old regime is guilty, and now we're definitely aware that the old regime is guilty of why we've had hundreds or thousands of law offices in the last ten years, now the old regime is guilty of why these lawyers are returning to courts too. It's a question that I can say like this, that it's made me quite satisfied because basically we know that it's all the old regime's fault, but nine months at the republican level of your government, one year at the federal level, if there's no choice for another two or three years, and there's failure, it's probably always going to be an answer -- it's some old regime that's already passed. I wonder why all this is done like this. Is it possible that absolutely none of the changed people possessed any professional quality, ability and efficiency in the work, and that all of this newly established and priori would possess in their references. I wonder what all these courts have been doing, these nine months and if they've been doing at all, when just now, in a large number of courts, we're setting people up. And in particular, the matter of urgency is raised, suddenly a quick appointment of all these people, so this extraordinary session had to be scheduled, and it was too long, for about ten days until the beginning of the regular session of this assembly. It's a very strange time we're in, and I have to say, they're strange and they're people. It has been said that people will be chosen exclusively according to their professional references, proven in their work, and it has, unfortunately, come down to the opinion of the local DOS and to the sending of a recommendation to the minister. This is no longer a secret anymore, because for a large number of cases, we have been able to see in the means of public information that it is a decision or a recommendation from the local DOS, or is it quite a coincidence that, since Mr Batic was appointed Minister of RES, of all professions, the largest number of lawyers and judges are joining the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia. Humans can accept that, and they're probably ambitious people who think that with some political resemblance they're going to get a position in court, because that's not just the case with the Justice Department, but it's simply the case with all the ministries, of these 18 in the coalition, that people have done it. In these nine months, many times our judiciary has not passed its legal exam. Let us only remember what everyone knows absolutely, and these are complete events related to Slobodan Milosevic. Regular citizens see it all as chaos, because you will admit there is no functioning of any state without respect for it. I agree with that, and here on several occasions it's said that the applicable laws aren't valid, they're not good, and then why didn't we go the other way, first we changed those laws and then we did all these other events. But whatever they are, good or bad, they are ours, and as long as they are in force, we simply have to respect them. There is one infidelity and a skeptic, in fact, it leaves a huge impression that the work of the courts is primarily reduced to dealing with political insolents. I'm asking you, are you absolutely sure that everyone now is already an old, changed people who were supporters and listeners to the former regime? I'm telling you, it wasn't like that. They're just people who have been professionally doing their job the way they knew and knew, and I'm not saying it's best, but I'm not saying it's the worst. Please, it's a big mistake to look for any political resemblance, given that it's the most important independent judiciary, because if we all want to do well together with these newly appointed people, we need to think about what's going to happen to these people tomorrow when anyone is in power. I am personally convinced that a much greater effect would have been if this reform had occurred in the judiciary and that all the employees in the judiciary had legal acts, even through their own standards, than we are always discussing some personal changes. Personally, I really can't say anything about any individual, because it's very ungrateful and I wouldn't allow myself to talk about people I don't know, or well, or anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11815	The People's MP Radojko Petric has the word, followed by the MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11816	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, today when we consider proposals for decisions on the termination of functions, the resolution and selection of judicial officials, we clearly see that DOS authorities continue with the mass shift of leaders in judicial and public prosecutorial functions and that it brings to these positions to the DOS politically loyal people. The promised reform of the judicial system has come down to hundreds of people with judicial functions on a mass shift. How to talk about reforms of the judicial system that need to be prepared and implemented by a government that itself makes anti-constitutional and illegal decisions. The day of 2001 will not be forgotten in the history of our people. The Republic Constitutional Court doesn't work, and that's no coincidence. Constitutional and judicial control of the work of the Republic government and its institutions is knowingly disabled. The question arises how regular courts can function when the Constitutional Court is suspended. Why is the Constitutional Court of Serbia not being completed in order to ensure legal certainty? It is known to everyone that one of the most important institutions in the state is the Constitutional Court. Serbia's government has managed regulations and regulations and has so far passed around 60 regulations, setting itself above the National Assembly, above the Constitution and above the law. Serbia is becoming more and more political, not a legal state. Unlawful conduct and decision-making is justified by the existence of allegedly bad laws, and it is known that in every rule of law the law must be respected until it exists until changes. I'll make a funny but true remark to Bran Petrovic. He says a government that doesn't do anything is more contrived by a government that's killed by a job, but contrary to the law. A number of judicial leaders have been appointed by officials, and such a situation continues to be maintained. That's not by any chance. This is how the government puts pressure on the court and the D.A.'s office. It is logical that the government expects the acting presidents of courts and public prosecutors to meet some of their demands in return for the officials to be proposed and elected for the presidents of the courts or for public prosecutors. In fact, the government is testing their obedience. Why is it that instead of acting in the vacancy of the present vacancy, Deputy Judges or Public Prosecutors are not appointed, which would be in accordance with the applicable regulations? An unremembered political cleanup in the judiciary is being conducted. How else do we interpret that it works, just today we're solving 51 of the presidents of the municipal courts. The same assessment of the present campaign can be made on the proposal to resolve six district court presidents. Today, 13 district court presidents are elected, as some district courts have previously been resolved. It's the same picture as the President of the Commercial Court's release. For today's session, it is proposed that 11 of them be relieved of that duty. In addition to the resolution, a number of prominent court presidents left those functions alone, and some left the courts. This came after a public campaign through public information funds and efforts to discredit the presidents of the courts as widely as possible during the previous period. I'll make an example of the President of the Municipal Court in Prepolje. The court has been the first in the Uzic District Court for the past six years, which has 10 district courts. When I say first, I mean the urgency and quality, the percentage of the confirmation of judgments in the second-degree procedure, i.e. according to the criteria of how the court's work is ranked. According to the same criteria, on the basis of annual reports, the court has held fourth and fifth seats in Serbia in the last four years. Despite these results, the President of the Court is, before the deadline on which he was elected, leaving the court and, as he says, purely out of dignity, not being in a position to be defiled by someone unfounded and tendingly and to question his professional and moral level. I note that I have no objection to the proposed New Cadrovian solution for the President of the Court of Justice in Prepolje. This example I cited is certainly not the only one. I have led him to point out to the public that a climate is being created for the departure of professional and competent people from the judiciary, which is not in the interest of citizens and the legal system in Serbia. Dear Members of Parliament, do new appointments provide quality and expertise? Do all the proposed candidates for the exercise of judicial functions enjoy a proper reputation in the environments in which they live and work? It is known that DOS at local level decides who will be in the local judiciary. It's clear what the first plan is. Legal procedures and procedures are not respected. We are listening to statements that in some areas individual candidates have received the support of all DOS parties, and the second plan is to support the court's colleges, so on the professional side. These days we read in the press the protests of the colleges of certain municipal and county courts regarding the proposed candidates and their professional and moral inadequacies to be elected presidents of the courts. Is this kind of human policy and this kind of personnel run by the rule of law and an independent judiciary? What about this kind of justice can the Minister of Justice, Mr. Batic, say? He spoke in this congregation several times about Justicia, the goddess of justice in the Romans. She is depicted on statues as a girl with her eyes tied, with a sword in one hand and a terrace in the other, and the fasting says, "Let there be justice, even if the world fails." Does Minister Batic still believe in the credo, which has quoted us here many times?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11817	Mr. Rajko Baralic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11818	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, esteemed journalists, Mr. President of the Justice Committee, at the election of Judges and President of the Municipal Court in Cacak for this speaker, I said that I support this choice, because Mr. Rade Vranic is a correct man and this assembly has given confidence and support to this man, to the satisfaction of the Assembly and the general public. This qualified me that today, when we have before us a proposal to appoint public prosecutorial functions, and based on the documentation and opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Administration of the SPS and the legal advice of the municipal board of the SPS in Cačka, I present several arguments and try to challenge the election of Mr Zoran Pesic as district attorney in Cačka. Fellow MPs, we received a proposal a while ago to elect Mr Mladen Nenadic as district attorney in Cačka. The Justice Committee gave a positive opinion, as the current municipal prosecutor in Cacca. After that, we received one piece of paper, which has only one sentence, signed by Mr Nedic: "I hereby inform you that I am withdrawing the motion for a decision on the selection of municipal and district attorneys". Among those people who are thus removed from the possibility of being elected for prosecutors is Mr. Mladen Nenadic's name. Instead of Mr. Nenadic, we received a new proposal to elect Mr. Zoran Pesic as district attorney in Cačka. Mr. Zoran Pesic is my acquaintance, with whom he has relatively correct relations, I would say until some time ago and warm, but I am obliged to warn the National Assembly, given that some of this documentation was also in the press these days, in the list of "Today" and some other newspapers. Mr. Zoran Pesic, among other things, is the secretary of the municipal board of the Democratic Party and member of the municipal government, the Executive Board of the Municipality of Cačak Assembly. Mr. Zoran Pesic, as a lawyer from 1995 to 2001, has cut the budget for several hundred thousand dinars on the basis of an untimely settlement of these obligations through an untimely settlement of taxes on services, property taxes, pension and disability insurance. His debts at the end of the years mentioned in these paragraphs and by year range from several thousand to several tens of thousands of dinars. The interest on these items per year is from several hundred to several tens of thousands of dinars. Mr. Zoran Pesic, among other things, is known as the deputy municipal public prosecutor 15 years ago by his senior official, SPO, Mr. Vitomir Ćalovic, was prosecuted by official duty because of the mockery of the socialist order. There's a few more papers. One of them says Mr. Zoran Pesic made several fictitious contracts and thus avoided tax obligations. With his mother-in-law, he made a life support contract, all in order to reduce or avoid his tax obligations. In addition, the Republic Administration of Public Revenue, the Department of Tax Taxation from Cačka, has repeatedly addressed the competent state authorities, the MUP of Cačka, the Municipal Court and the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, to allow the collection of tax debts to be made and to prevent what Mr Pesic has done with fictional actions in this regard. I have to say for myself, for the sake of the public, that I'm very sorry that I've been able to say this, it's possible that I'm going to lose a friend, but party obligations require that people, who are very high-ranking, are told the facts. So it's about a very high-exposed man present in public life in Cačka, it's about a high-ranking official of the Democratic Party and it's about a man who's supposed to be a district prosecutor for four municipalities - Gornji Milanovac, Cačak, Guca and Ivanjica. According to the Socialist Party, there is no risk, not according to the citizens of Cačka, I just want to say that I am absolutely sure that Mr. Zoran Pesic can do the job well, this thing is not controversial, because he was the deputy district attorney for several years. Dispute is created in something else. It breaks into that plane: Can anyone afford to treat a country like this, which should be protected in such a way that all people who break the rules can be sanctioned properly. I think Mr. Zoran Pesic unwittingly disqualified himself for this high place. The position of the SPS Parliament Club is to declare this election individually, not in a package with the others proposed for the district and municipal prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11819	He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11820	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have called for the right to come out of the Rules of Procedure, given that my predecessor has provided some incorrect information. The name of the secretary of the Democratic Party in Cačka is Blagojevic and with the last name Pesic has only similarity in two letters. I thought your only ignorance, the ignorance that follows the status of the DOS parliamentary group. However, you have demonstrated something much more serious. For this reason, I suggest you hand over your documentation on Mr Pesic to the representatives of your party in the Committee on Justice and Management, so that they and their fellow Members can discuss it, and I guarantee to Parliament that the MP group of DOS will not support the person acting against the law. But at the same time, you will suffer a great moral blow, if it turns out that you are not there, and I am in advance showing a large reserve according to what you said, given that you have lost your crown proof, here, in this way, because there is no similarity between Pesic and Blagojevic, except the one I mentioned to you. [[An emissary from the O.R. is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11821	He's got the right to a replica, and you've caused a replica, and as you know, there's no replica on the replica. The word has a People's MP, Mr. Alexander Vucic
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will agree on one thing with Mr. Jovanovic, that it cannot and is not necessary and it is not always a good distraction. After all, we, SRS MPs, have no need to defend anyone here specifically or specifically for our own party or for some similar reasons, because it's not about the people of the SRS, even though some of them wanted from the government and the opposition to abuse, but I'm going to talk about what is the essence, which is that of the fundamental reforms that have been mentioned, in this case there's no speech, it doesn't matter. For months, before the elections were held on September 24th last year, the December elections, and after that, I always listen to the system laws coming before the MPs, before the National Assembly, how we will discuss it, and then after all, nothing, and usually only human resources, human resources, and as many of our people, or other people, replace their people. And it wouldn't be bad either, if there wasn't a lot of demagogy, which says the worst in the world, by the way, I really don't know who these people are changing, I didn't have that kind of experience. For a very small number of them, I know which ones should be placed in these places. But here's one much more tangible thing, which is -- what's essentially changed, aren't party officials coming today to the highest places in the domestic justice system? They're coming, Mr. Pesic, I don't know what function he's in in Cačka, but I know he's a member of the municipal government and a member of the Democratic Party, everyone knows that in Cačka. Whether his office is president, vice president, secretary or not has no function is none of our business, but he is a member of the party. We can't ban judges, prosecutors, from being supporters of certain political organizations. Some cheer for the Star, some for the Partizan, some for the third. You can't ban it, but the point is that it's not good, it's not good, and that's what the authorities here say, it's no good that party officials appear at the highest judicial functions. What's the exact data, which we could talk about here, is what we can see from the material that came to us, which is pretty shrub, which is, the length of study and the grades that people had. It is truly amazing, and it is said that we will try to get the best in Serbia to get the most place, and here it seems to me that those who have been the worst, of those who have somehow passed, are given the right and the opportunity to be the best, to be above all others. I wouldn't say it again, but people's biography shows that the largest number of people who have studied for 8, 10 or 11 years is much more than those four or five years. I'd say another example, which we have data on, which I told Mr. Hiber, though, in an informal conversation, but I was counting on him to look at and check in the materials, so maybe change it. That's not what happened. I, although I do not know him personally, have brought a certified copy to show the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to see who you're making president of the Municipality of Žabari. So I'm going to show you, this is about a certified copy, with the seal of the Municipal Court in Žabari (the ambassador showing the paper) -- it's about that man, who's supposed to be President of the Municipal Court today, and it's about Brankovic Jugoslav, I checked, was not removed from the list, therefore, against him is a judicial verdict delivered on 20 June 1998. I'll tell you why. If someone were less significant or less symptomatic of a crime, I wouldn't even mention it. So, it's -- "It's guilty that on August 14, 1997, about 23.20 hours, in the main street in Žabari, in front of the building where the private prosecutor lived, he beat the same (so it's a woman) by hitting his fists several times over his head, of which the private prosecutor, Marinović Svetlana, fell to the ground, and then he continued to kick his legs on the body, causing her injury in the form of sedation on the left side, skin peeling, with both his hands and his soft tissues to the head." The crime was also committed, and the court, by applying both the SRJ KZ and the KZ of the Republic of Serbia and the ZKP, determines a two-month prison sentence. Is that the man for the president of the court? Maybe it is. I don't think that's supposed to be the arguments that recommend it in such an important place and I don't think it's a biography of praise. You know, if men fight, it's normal, but if someone beats a woman, you'll agree that, at the very end of the line, it's not normal. It's not normal to beat yourself up, let alone anyone else. I'd like to point to something else, a general state of justice. It has been said that there is finally the creation of an independent judiciary, that we will enjoy the welfare of the rule of law, or as the Germans call it "resstat", but it seems to me that there is nothing. There's nothing because no one wants to create a serious rule of law. I will give you an example of yesterday, which will surprise you many, perhaps the topic will even surprise you - it is about what you showed on all the media about Željko Simic. In fact, as a competitive political organisation of the organisation to which Željko Simic belonged, I may have the answer to something like that. Obviously, if he's already admitted it...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11823	Mr. Vukiæu, please return to the topic, as far as I know, Željko Simic is not a candidate for the president of the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11824	Please don't interrupt me, if you don't understand what I'm talking about and what I'm talking about. Please listen to me carefully and you'll understand that I'm talking about the subject, and no one else in the room has objected, except you. Please listen to me carefully. I feel sorry for that man, because you see that it's obviously a disease and that it's a place to get rid of it somewhere else, but I have to tell you something -- it's terrible and what the police did is terrible. There was a genius who shared tapes with everyone in the investigation. That it was done by a private person, so he took it, and he offered it, but that the police are doing it, and he can't even use it in evidence. If he'd been smart about who he was taking the case against, he could have said, "That's not true," just so he knew, and there was nothing we could do about it. There's nothing his authority could have done if he was smart, but he wasn't. I'm just talking about how there's no rule of law, how there's no legal principle, that's a fact. If some can be tried and can be tried, both as politicians and newspapers, and all others -- the rule of law in Serbia does not exist. You're talking about Slobodan Vukevic. Now a situation has been made public as if, in some cases, the criminals are all those who will by chance not allow Slobodan Vučetic to be everything and shine in Serbia's judiciary. Guys, this is the same man who was the highest official of the Union of Communists, the same man who was the highest official of the SPS. It's a man whose house you write the Frog Constitution, who you criticize so much. Is that true? It is true, and MPs know that. Why won't they talk about it? Whose house did this Frog Constitution be written in? Of course, this constitution is much better than it is now being prepared, with confederal elements. Now, like it's some legal genius, like it's some messiah that no one can touch in any other way. I don't think that's an argument and that it shouldn't be spoken of in such a way. I'd say something about it if it wasn't possible to respect the demands of whoever was V.D. The public prosecutor and because he has no right to do so, so basically nemo plus jurist, it couldn't have been accepted in any way. I have to say that he is known for something else, which is evidence and a real indicator that there is no rule of law in our Serbia. He was a man who had to start a chase against the faces who had kidnapped one person, in this case it was Slobodan Milosevic, and could have been anyone else. He could have been Stakic and anyone else in Central Prison, and he had to do it. He had to do it on official duty. (President: Time. ) Not only did he not do so, but he went public with an explanation that it was done in extreme need and that there is therefore no reason to initiate the procedure. Those are really, you'll agree, amazing things. (President: Mr. Wolf, it's 11. We still have a lot of applications for discussion. As soon as it's 10 minutes, you get in at 11. I'll finish. I'd just say one more thing about rhetoric -- it's no good, it's no good. I'm telling you right now, there's not a judge here, not a single prosecutor who's radical, who's being replaced or who's being set up. So we don't have that kind of personal or party interest. But don't use that communist rhetoric like 1945-1946. - Everything before us wasn't right, and now a new age is coming, a five-year-old arrives, self-government comes, so every time something new, much better, will be very different. It's not just the last 60 years. We didn't have democracy before. We didn't have democracy in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia either. (President: Mr. Wolf, 12 minutes. We had no democracy in neither the Kingdom of SHS nor the Kingdom of Serbia. Those who read books, who read something from history, know it well. The bottom line is that we have to make one democratic order, and with these changes, only these changes in which other parties, instead of some parties, will set up their officials, their listeners, or those who will do certain jobs on their behalf, I'm sure we haven't done anything. On the contrary, I think Serbia is on a completely wrong path and I'm afraid it's not straying very far from the path it was meant to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11825	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic. The next is National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11826	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament has a very important issue, and this is a matter of restoring and establishing a new judicial system. The assembly received a mandate from Serbian citizens to carry out a thorough reform, both socially and legally. But in order for legal reforms to be implemented as a guarantee of all these reforms to be implemented, there must be parallel work to change the legal system, but also to change the judicial system, which means that they must be guided and changed to justice, and above all, the leaders of judicial functions must be changed, as a guarantee of law enforcement, a guarantee of equality of citizens before the law and a guarantee of the rule of law. Why do I say that? We, as MPs and as citizens of Serbia, have found the state and its state system in one collapse. We have found a criminalised state, where there is a sign of equality between crime and state institutions, where state institutions are affected by bribery and corruption. On October 5th, because the institutions of the state and the system did not rule, the people demanded and forced the system to change. Of course, these changes won their legitimacy in the December elections, precisely for this congregation home. So this assembly, in this session, has the mandate of citizens to make radical changes in society, and so on in the judicial system. I must say that the proposed changes, above all by those holders of judicial functions who have acquired legal conditions, to stop them, but also by the behaviour of certain judicial holders, suggest the deep involvement of the previous regime in conducting justice in Serbia. I come from Nis, where it was the people who participated in the 1996 election thefts, because they were the presidents of the election commissions against whom criminal charges were filed. The city's low assembly is the first in Serbia to be established prior to the adoption of the famous back of specialis, which has just recognised the involvement of judicial officials in the electoral theft. Unfortunately, the leaders of the Nis judiciary are still decorated in those participants and inspirational thefts in 1996, which led hundreds of thousands of people to protest the streets of the city of Nis, because the institutions of the state and the systems did not guarantee the protection of the citizens' will that was achieved at the time in the elections. Unfortunately, judges who were elected from the lists of the most loyal members of the SPS, JUL and other parties of the then coalition remain in the courts. We are in favour of depolicing the judiciary, because depolitisation of the judiciary is just a guarantee of the rule of law, so that all citizens are equal before the law. Yesterday's decision, by which this assembly took away immunity from the MPs of this assembly, is precisely to ensure that we all equalize ourselves before the law, that we all take responsibility for what we did against the law. As for the promoter who has submitted a proposal to this assembly and to the Committee on Justice and Administration, to give an opinion and an assessment of the candidates, in terms of their ability and qualifications to perform a specific function, I believe that the Justice Committee has based its opinion on facts. Our goal is to firstly establish a judicial system and we cannot call for any legal void, any legal handicap, because the law has not consistently and Decidently determined how to transfer power to an institution such as the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. We cannot, because of the lack of consistent regulation, question the state and the interests of the people. So this assembly is the highest authority of government in the country and it has the authority to appreciate candidates in terms of fulfilling legal conditions for performing functions, to appreciate their moral ability to perform that function, and above all, given the opinion of the environment in which they live and work. By the way, most of these candidates have received an extremely favourable assessment of the environment she's been working in so far. As far as Nisa is concerned, candidates for the highest legal holders are not party members of the previous regime or current parties that have a majority in this assembly. In determining the candidate's proposal, the applicant had in mind and their expertise, their current professional work, which guarantees that, regardless of any centres, these people will be able to carry out laws consistently and allow people to be equal in front of the laws. It is necessary to change the holders of judicial functions if we want to reform the legal and judicial system. Compared to that, we have to change the laws because it's not enough just to strictly enforce the laws. We are witnesses that we had such laws that put the minority above the people, which led to an unequal position for the citizens of Serbia before the law, so that the political centres of power over the levers of power could construct and manipulate with the judiciary, to conduct political processes against citizens, without them having institutions in which they could exercise their rights. Such an example is also Mr Vučetic, with rights denied to him in this very high house, where, without any discussion and procedure, the Constitutional Court delivered an opinion or just to the knowledge of this assembly home to resolve this very competent lawyer, known in our legal public. I believe this assembly is a place where all the harmful consequences that have been done to this man should be removed. It guarantees the rule of law, it guarantees the return of trust in the institutions of the state, it guarantees that all citizens will have equal treatment before the law, because the highest holders of judicial functions, and even the holders of the functions of the Constitutional Court, did not have the opportunity to protect their legal interests, because this highest institution that judges the laws and judges acts, violated exactly what they swore they would respect. I'm just wondering what kind of rough debates are needed in the judicial system, and I'm wondering who's bothered by the establishment of a rule of law, or the rule of law, because I think that only mobs and criminals are bothered by the establishment of a normal, logical and functional, as well as an effective judicial system. I call on all of you who care about the rule of law and all of you who are constantly protecting the interests of our citizens to vote for changes in the judiciary, which guarantee the implementation of reforms and in this very sensitive area. Of course, in the assessment of each candidate's proposal for a judicial office, we will also appreciate those remarks we have heard about this Custinian speaker. The ruling majority will not be deaf to facts and evidence available to MPs, from any party to come, if these facts and evidence reduce the value of those who need to perform these significant judicial functions. So we will appreciate everyone's ability individually and we will make those decisions that are in the interest of our citizens and states, because these holders of judicial functions and judges on behalf of the people, but they are obliged to respect the laws consistently and equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11827	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and the next one has been reported by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is really unimportant that any MP, and especially me from the SRS, when we talk about a proposal for candidates for the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions, to talk individually about each proposal, to point out some specifically, especially because you have been such an interpreter, although, as Mr Hiber said, that the Committee of Justice and Administration has sat down in the past two months, but such a tumbling and such an encroachment, with such bloodshed because of certain candidates, you have made a general mess and it would be best to withdraw such shameful candidacys and proposals. However, I do not believe that you will listen to what we insist on because you have never heard of what is meant to be done in the National Assembly, especially because you have taken care of your own personal interests in your acuity. The basic criterion in the vast majority of cases in the run for these people with revised lists for selecting the holders of judicial functions is loyalty and obedience, as well as belonging to one of the political party conglomerates, etc. DOS. People who, as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are now elected to the most responsible functions in courts and prosecutors are not recommended, as a rule, meaning in most cases their work, their expertise, but, as they like to be praised -- by the past internship in the parties so-called. DOS, and theirs, as they point out again -- a long-standing fight against the former regime. So in Kragujevac, as a rule, when it comes to such proposals, local domiciles meet at a deaf time of the night, agree on quotas, argue over all of this and, of course, want to kidnap each other as much as possible, distribute those quotas, and place certain judges, district public prosecutors, deputy district attorneys, place as many of their activists and party staff as possible. Some candidates simply compete in self-releasing and in the emphasis of their candidacys. They usually do so through local and other media, and not only in Kragujevac and Šumadija, but in all of Serbia, and most of all praise their merits in the fight against the former regime and as they say they were walkers, and many of them as their biggest contribution and as their biggest reference, as their biggest recommendation in running for one of the judicial functions, say that they are members of some Association of Serbian judges who support and finance their Western mentors, which is one of the paradud organisations that hold seminars across all municipal district courts across Serbia and which is funded by the Soros Fund, so-called. Open Society Fund. But even those of that Serbian Justice Society, who are the extended hand of DOS, which we have talked a lot about, about its devastating influence on the judiciary because they are an extended hand, your policy, Western, American and their Western allies, even they, assessing the way they choose and proposing candidates for the highest judicial functions in our country, have many objections. It happened that they say the following -- DOS politicians are now advertising in the press, and judges should learn from those statements. Before that, they were called on the phone, and now only advertised in the shampoo and that the new government, according to the Soroš association, the Serbian Judges' Association, continued with an unprofessional, dilettant and uninterested relationship with the judiciary. In July, all of this, in a trial dedicated to judicial reform in Serbia, was found by Omer Hadziomerovic, the newly elected president of the Serbian Judges' Association, whose destructive action we Serbian radicals otherwise pointed out earlier, and he even added the following -- that the judiciary remains unequivocal, unsupervised, corrupt and slow. They also found from the Soros association that the state is affecting the judiciary, in which the predecessors, they say, Justice Minister Vladan Batic, who serves only the interests of his party. When such an assessment of the judiciary, of the way you propose to elect the bearers of the highest judicial functions, judges and deputies of municipal and districtal public prosecutors, those who are your extended hand, who are synchronised along with you, will now be found, of course, in the next elections in that option that will suffer a disastrous defeat, as will then the assessment of the work of the courts to give ordinary citizens who want to protect their civil rights. Minister Batic, who has repeatedly claimed that he has nothing to do with the creation of these personnel lists, that he has no influence on municipal and district courts in our country, is in his address on June 7th this year in so-called. "Independent light," just about the election of judges and prosecutors, said the following: "We had to talk to local authorities, with some other people, to try to make the best of the selection." Minsitar Batic is obviously uninterested in all of our legitimate criticisms and he left the gym, he left the session when he was talking about such an important agenda point, but if he were there, I would ask him and ask him now, even though he is not there: with whom people the selector, prosecutor and judge Batic were to talk? Which are other people, that it may not be a criminal Stanko Subotic Cane or some other criminals in a close relationship, in direct connection with the current government in Serbia and the SRJ. If it wasn't for all those criminals who found refuge in the party's van, it's also unremarkable to repeat her name, that it's not the same...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11829	Miss, please get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11830	... Who are being prosecuted for many acts that the minister himself is protecting. On the other hand, something happened to the general disdain of our people, the whole of our public, and what some fellow MPs mentioned, is that the ruling of the Supreme Court of Serbia made a complaint against the defenders of such villains who bombed our country and our people for 78 days and caused us so many civilian casualties and enormous material damage. So, the Supreme Court of Serbia, whose impartial decision you are calling on here today, has respected the appeals of defenders Blair, Schroeder, Fisher, Clinton, Madlen Olbright...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11831	Ms. Jovanovic, I give you my first warning because, in addition to my warning, you still do not stick to the topic of the agenda (at the same time as the president).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11832	The district court has dared to abolish that verdict, under which these villains, under our law, are sentenced to the highest sentence of imprisonment. This is exactly how the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Belgrade District Court and all that you are doing just to get as close as possible to your Western employers, says in favour of this, you may be surprised at the fact that you are members of opposition parties but I do not believe it, because, as the MPs of the SRS and our general public see, you may conclude that the information that arrived several days ago via state television, as well as other media, that the "blue language" disease is imported from abroad. It is simply not true, because this disease is so widespread among DOS members, among the entire DOS....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11833	Miss Jovanovic, on the basis of article 101, I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11834	Because you, ten years ago, have been courting Americans and their Western allies, the enemies of the Serbian people, have shown that you....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11835	Miss Jovanovic, I take your word. (Natasa Jovanovic continues to talk. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11836	Please, on the basis of Article 80(2), check the quorum, there are a lot of cards inserted, and there are no MPs, and even at your table are three cards, and two MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11837	Two cards were inserted at our table, mine and Shabicev's, here, check it out, come check it out. What's up there? I'm telling you, it's got two cards. Maybe the electronic system's wrong. I'll call the service to check it out. Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from the scene: ) Please, to determine the quorum, insert your identification cards into the MPs. Also, I ask the e-service worker to give us an explanation of why there are three cards on the monitor, and only two at the Bureau table were inserted. I ask the service to count whether there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, since apparently the MPs of the SRS did not insert identification cards into their parliamentary units, and they themselves insisted on determining the quorum, which also constitutes a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The People's MP Goran Cvetanovic has the word, and after him, the MP Slobodan Janjic. Here, too bad, you don't have an audience right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11838	You're my audience, there's no need for mine to hear it, they already know it. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, analyses carried out in Leskovac during the last period of time show that the situation in the municipality of Leskovac is not even 5% of Leskovčana satisfied. The analyses that have been done show that for the new elections more than 38% of Leskovchan and against 20%. Even 90% of respondents estimate that the situation in the judiciary is poor and without significant changes. Since the promoter, Dr Hiber, has already said that the change in personnel structure is in this agenda itself, and that these are reform changes, let's see exactly what these changes are about. First of all, he is currently in office of the President of the Court of Justice, and the son-in-law is the mayor of Leskovec, Mr. Zivkovic, who is a member of the Democratic Party. That's probably why the nine months haven't even been made. As for the President of the District Court in Leskovac, he was formerly the minister of justice and, since his sons-in-laws are probably due to this and he hasn't changed so far, but, well, there may be some justification there. I simply wonder what happened to Mr. Milan Stojanovic, who is the president of the Municipality's court in Leskovec and who has been a longer period of time, since 5 October, for the treatment of neuropsychiatry, so none of the doctors are able to release him, because the fact that treatment has not been resolved and I am surprised that these changes have not occurred. Let's see these changes that are now, what they are. First of all, if you look at it, as far as the Jablanic district, or Leskovec, is concerned, except for a single honorable exception, which is as far as the President of the Municipal Court in Leskovac, Miodrag, and here it is either a printing error or apparently the promoters do not even know the name of their representative, Jankovic, who is also a member of the Democratic Party, is the only judge already in that Municipal Court. Everyone else, whether it's a district court in Leskovac, whether it's Lebanese or not, they're not even judges of those courts. So, first they were to be elected judges, and only later to be appointed presidents of the courts, so it's already clear what kind of candidates they are. Apparently, Mr Batic asked the judges primarily to join his party, but apparently people have a vision that he is short-lived, so they did not want to join and then the loan from the closest coalition partners from the Democratic Party was made at the moment. I will introduce you to several examples that have been proposed, and above all for the District Court judge in Leskovac, Jovica Ilic, a lawyer, means the Bar of Nis. So he's not even a judge, let alone more. As a result, I received a memo, and many of them were given to me, and they were firstly given to the National Assembly, the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, as well as the minister of justice and local self-government of Serbia, with the signing of the DOS committees and the Leskovec municipality Assembly. The letter reads: "After 5 October 2000, contrary to the DOS pre-election promise that root, democratic change in society would take place and that the most responsible places in the pavosuary would be chosen by professional, competent and honest people, there were divisions of party quotas, where they essentially distributed war-grass, nepotism and the expedient interests of the drawn-up DOS personnel list for Leskovac. Basic human, moral, and democratic principles have been betrayed in the frame. On this occasion, we point to only one such example for the holder of the judicial function in Leskovac. A lawyer, Jovica Ilic, as a member of one of the DOS parties, was proposed for the head of the district court in Leskovac. Mr. Ilic was the judge of the municipality court in Leskovac between 1984 and 1991, when he founded the lawyer's office. And as a judge and as a lawyer, he's never known as an expert, and it's generally thought that his moral and human qualities are suspicious. Due to several unprofessional and unconscious proceedings in court cases, which the entire collective was familiar with, he was invited to discuss in 1991 by the President of the District Court in Leskovac. He was then pointed to his inadmissible behaviour and advised that he had to resign in order not to be relieved of these judicial functions and not to conduct any other proceedings against him. At the time, it was not popular for the regime to be resolved by the holders of state judicial functions, as this would reduce the reputation of the regime at the time. As a lawyer, Mr. Ilic didn't make a career, but after winning DOS, he came out of nowhere and entered someone's personnel quota. We suggest that you obtain a report from the competent department of DB and the president of the district court in Leskovac, which is why Mr Ilic had to resign as judge in 1991, so it will be clear to all. On behalf of true and democratic changes, the construction of the rule of law and the achievement of the principle of independence and independent judges and courts, we ask that you consider ahead, and as responsible factors in the process of selecting the holders of judicial functions take all measures, since it is necessary to choose the best people in these places, with the help that will be possible to achieve the forwards of those principles." If your DOS committees say that about your representatives and your candidates, there is really nothing left for us to add to the Serbian radicals. I already said it was delivered on August 27, 2001. the year to the National Assembly, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the minister of justice. Go ahead and check it out. You have plenty of opportunities to check and see for yourself. As for your further candidates, we can discuss that. On Sunday, I was in Lebanon, given that there should be elections there on the local level on November 4th, and there the Democratic Party has placed its frame, and that is Mr. Borisvoje Kocic, a lawyer. He's probably a great candidate, although I'm hearing he's already built a house on municipal land and he'll probably verify it now, and since you say he's a great candidate, I'll finally tell you where you can find him, from seven days to five days, he's probably in a local bar in Leban.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11839	Right on the line, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11840	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have listened very carefully to all previous criticisms, recorded the case of Cačka, the case of Žabara, in addition to the previous cases of Smederev and Vranja, and asked you to contribute our work with adequate documentation and call on the Serbian Radical Party MP from Leskovec to make this information available to us. At the same time, I most resolutely deny what you said, calling on the unnamed DOS committees, who found it appropriate to write to you, who they were fighting, and not to us who represent them here. As far as the Lebanese Municipal Court is concerned, that solution is not even on the agenda of this session. So another harsh insinuation, which cannot possibly answer us as MPs, because we are looking for the best solutions. Here, say what is a good proposal for the Lebanese, please state what is a good proposal for Leskovac. Do not question human fate in this way, because it is also too humiliating for the Serbian parliament. You're a doctor, and here you've broken the sacred rule of medical ethics that doesn't allow a doctor to talk about his patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-18-0.u11841	Since work hours are limited by 19.30 per Rules of Procedure, the next speaker cannot use his ten minutes belonging to him by the Rules of Procedure. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. We continue a unique search on the proposals for decisions on the predication of functions, resolution and selection of judicial holders.
