ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3896	The resurrection Christ. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. According to official records, 137 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Aleksandr Krstic, Zahari Trnavčević, Branko Besevic, Miloš Lukic, Veseljin Jankovic, Slavoljub Matic, Karol Kermeci, Miroslav Martic, Nedi Arnerić, Jovana Todorovic, Dusan Budišin, Dragoljuv Vojinović, Vukosavo Tomasevic, and in the morning: Pal Shandor, Radoj Simic, Milorad Stanulov. The delay was announced by Istvan Ispanovich and Anton Biachi. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3897	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, having seen the stenographic notes from Thursday's 12th April 2001 session, we can be sure that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been drastically violated several times. First, Minister Djelic, in his discussion, used offensive terms - lies and lies - for members of other political groups, which injured Article 99(3). A Rules of Procedure that says "not allowed to use offensive expressions... "and so on.; then, in the good part of his presentation, he spoke about his interpretation of the previous times, instead of talking about the laws on the agenda, which injured Article 98(1). The Rules of Procedure, which says, "the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." On these violations of the Rules of Procedure made by Minister Djelic, you, Mr. President, have remained silent, although you have been obliged to warn and warn that you are not serving offensive terms and that you are sticking to the agenda. That is what Article 100(1) also obliges you to do. The Rules of Procedure, because it's your turn to take care of the session. In addition to the above, we witnessed an even more drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure, we know that you left the session just six hours ago, by the vice president of Mrs. Micic's National Assembly, who chaired part of the session at the end of the working day. To remind ourselves, at the beginning of the working day Thursday it was decided to work until 18 o'clock. It was then that the discussion of MP Dragan Tomic ended, and instead of being completed after this discussion that day, manipulation by the chairman, Mrs. Micic, was attempted. At any cost, she worked hard to allow the address of Minister Šumarac, although several MPs had previously advertised the lack of quorum and violation of the Rules of Procedure, which injured Article 95. The Rules of Procedure which laid down that the MP who wishes to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly or the Chairman shall give the floor immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. All of this happened in front of the public after 18 hours, until it was decided to work. Everything that happened after that time was no longer a session of the National Assembly, but a private meeting of Mrs Micic, where the participation took place by 116 DOS MPs. To make everything worse by parliamentaryism and democracy, Minister Šumarac abused the speaker by spreading accusations and talking about things that are not at all on the agenda. And, Minister Batic took the opportunity to insult all the MPs who left the session, saying that he resented Mr Djelic for not introducing a tax on stupidity, because the tax on the stupidity of all those who left the session could definitely fill a budget that is 3.5 times higher than last year's budget, and health and education salaries are not 3.5 times higher than last year. Since we are convinced that nothing happens by chance, Mr. Chairman, is this number of injuries to the Rules of Procedure and the mounted circus at the end of the working day the introduction to the story of irresponsible MPs and the unserious parliament and the abolition of direct TV transmission at the meetings of the Assembly. Mr. Chairman, I have listed the injuries of six members of the Rules of Procedure in less than four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3898	If I understand the essence of your objection correctly, it refers to the fact that I did not warn the speaker when he used the words - lies and lies. If you think these are offensive expressions, I don't know what other expression to use.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3899	There are six injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3900	If there are so many injuries, I can answer you in writing, and I can't right now. I'm obliged to react to what I see as the essence. You're saying that I didn't respond to the use of words - lies and lies - or that I stayed silent in using those words. Really occasionally, as chairman, I stay, not only silent, but also stupid of what's going on here. It is really hard to determine whether the word "false" or "untrue" is referred to a national MP, or a parliamentary group, is offensive or not. I can't define an insolent word that would mark the truth. On the other hand, more serious than these six points is the end of a session that I really didn't attend and I can't give you an answer. I heard that it was pointed out that the sessions end up with a government representative, however, according to the Rules of Procedure, the government's representative gets a word when he asks for it. Since they, in my confidence, are quite logically seeking at the end of the session, the matter of the chairman, it was me or Mrs. Micic, to give the government's representative a word. When it is estimated that they should report, and they estimate that it is most effective to ask for a word at the end of the session, the president is obliged to give a word to the government's representative in the Rules of Procedure. I have to look at the rest of this, so I'll make my point. Should we put these proposals to a vote? No, I don't. ) We move on to the 5th item of the agenda: – COMMUNICATION PRIOR ASSESSMENT ON THE GROUP OF THE IMPLEMENTATION (convening) We are continuing a joint search on: Proposal for a corporate tax law, Proposal for a Law on property taxes, Proposal for a Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing goods, Proposal for a Tax on Financial transactions, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Housing, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Self-Government, Proposal for a Law on Tax on the Fund of profit. There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3901	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is already, and I don't know what debate, about taxes in this assembly in the last month. I can say that this government, most likely, is a recordr in the introduction of new taxes, regulations, extensions of the basis for paying taxes and expanding taxes and increasing taxes. Mr. Minister, so far you've done a good job and with these new laws, which are discussed in principle, you've circled probably the first round of tax introduction, where you've tried to collect from citizens everything that could be charged, and more than that. You've introduced taxes on food, water, apartments, medicine. I would now recommend that you round up your tax regulations, introduce a tax in order to increase the birthright in the Republic of Serbia, and tax on unborn children, so that our citizens can choose what is more worth more to them - whether to pay that tax or to pay on diapers for single use, child food tax, child medicine tax, bed tax, walkers, school supplies, etc. With this you would give citizens the opportunity to choose which tax is more paid to pay. So far, tax regulations have mainly concerned legal entities or craftsmen, and citizens' standards were reflected later, through inflation or a reduction of personal incomes. Now, for the first time, you're introducing taxes that citizens have to pay directly. A colleague from Gornji Milanovci tried to deny me a few days ago. As a matter of fact, his denials came down to the fact that the workers of a agricultural combination were not sent on a forced vacation, but were, with their consent and the knowledge of the union sent to such absences. On that occasion, it is not said that an employee who is on paid or unpaid leave loses the right to two benefits, to whom you have introduced the tax. And that's probably one of the reasons why they're on such leave. These are the benefits of a warm meal and a regress for an annual vacation. When we discussed all this, I thought then that the directors, meaning the responsible faces of these companies, sent out workers and perhaps told them to go home to work on black, on white, to learn how to feed their families. However, now that you have introduced this tax on goods, apartments and all possible private property, I am now coming to the conclusion, so I was wrong then, that the directors have told them: people, go, earn a tax, that the tax collectors of Minister Djelic would not come into your houses at night and drive your wife and children out into the street. On this issue, such as this government is expert, I can say that you have violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia member 21 and the Constitution of the SRJ in Article 31. I wish Mr Batic were here to tell you where those violations are. But he's gone now. When it comes to the proposal for tax on use, holding and carrying goods, the experts in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have suggested that, among other things, the tax be paid to the weapons of personal safety, hunting, sports and any other, which they could remember. Thus, in Article 24, under point 11 Mr. Djelic introduced a tax on an automatic rifle. If it's from the experts, it's a lot. First, Mr. Secretary didn't separate what an automatic rifle is and what automatic weapons are. There are two kinds, Mr. Minister. There's an automatic gun or a popular machine, where you can classify "scorpion", "hekler" and an automatic rifle. Under the Law of Holding and Carrying Weapons and Ammunition, automatic weapons can only be available to members of state security, police and military. Automatic weapons cannot have a single citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who does not work in these institutions. He can't own it in his own name. In fact, Mr. Minister, you've performed here quite cleverly, that this does not apply to those 500 million dinars, which are meant for Mr. Covic. You probably introduced this tax for Mr. Covic to charge this tax from the Cypriot terrorists, who call themselves an army. I can tell you that I'm very glad and easier about it... (votes: theme). Well, I'm talking about the subject, about the guns. And they're taxing themselves. I'm very glad, because the 500m dinar tax is likely to be paid by terrorists, so I would suggest, since Kosovo's territory is still part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to introduce a similar tax to KFOR down in Kosovo. I'm really surprised what this is all about. As for Mr Batic, at the end of Thursday's session, he proposed to you to seduce another tax. I'm not going to insult the MPs and ministers, so let me say what tax it is, but I think the only reason why that tax wasn't introduced is because he would fill your budget well, so you wouldn't have a problem with him. In your presentation, you said that MPs, who talked about inflation and the consequences of these tax regulations, were lying. You said nothing increased, everything is the same, and even less. I don't want to be offensive, Mr. Minister, to tell you that word, I'm going to tell you that you're not telling the truth, because you've increased your tax rates on food, to what is fundamental, and you've expanded the list of everything that could be taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3902	There is a word from MP Radojko Petrovic, followed by MP Srdja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3903	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Presidents, respected members of the Government, within this set of laws that we are now considering, I would like to point out some questions, which, I think, should be regulated differently. This refers to two laws, a proposal for a housing law and a proposal for a tax on use, keeping and bearing certain goods. As we heard last week, a large number of MPs pointed out the lack of justification for the abolition of the obligation for companies, institutions and state authorities to pay 1.3% of their contribution to gross earnings, which provided funds for solid housing construction, from economically poor employers, to address the housing needs of wartime disabled people and their families from the aftermath of the armed actions after 17 August 1990. It is known that there are a large number of employees with 20, 30 and more years of employment, without a settled housing issue. It is the same situation with wartime wartime peoples and their families from these aftermath of the war operations that followed in August 1990. A large number of mostly modest dwellings and a significant number of favourable housing loans were built and allocated from the pooled funds to the solidarity funds. This has been a major contribution from the SPS government to this category of low-income citizens, the disabled solve one of the most fundamental issues of life, and that is to keep the roof above the head. The government is now proposing to abolish the obligation to pay contributions to solid housing and to explain, among other things, that this is aimed at decentralising financing at the level of municipalities. We all know it's groundless, because these funds have been collected and placed at the municipal level so far. The law made it clear that the funds of solidarity were managed by management boards at the level of municipalities and that they also gave their representatives unions on a parity basis. It is also an unsustainable explanation by the government that there is a need to abolish the obligation to pay contributions to solid housing, for the reason that various irregularities and abuses have been committed in these funds. Compared to that, it would be like taking a decision in a company to close down a store, because it's being stolen, instead of tightening control, catching up with a thief. The same should be done with solidarity funds. Indictees of abuse, normally with evidence, call for responsibility. The existence of solidarity funds was important for the engagement of a construction operation. The same was important for several manufacturing companies, from different activities, which work for a construction operation. Construction is known to dynamicise, accelerate the work of almost all production activities, so let's remember the crisis of the 30s and the American public works. It would be a good idea for us today to discuss how to implement a ten thousand apartment building plan for young professional personnel, which was launched by the SPS government. It would be a good idea to expand the plan, not to abolish solid housing. It would be our mini-diving her. In addition to providing apartments for a large number of young professional staffs, as well as for other unoccupied citizens, it would launch a total economy to get out of the crisis. The impact and connection for the development of the economy, the creation of new goods and purchase funds are known. It is an opportunity to remind ourselves that the decades-old housing building is mostly financed from the contribution to residential construction. This contribution rate was 4% on gross personal incomes or about 5.5% on net personal incomes. The budget for this year provided two billion dinars for the apartment, which is only about 1,200 apartments in the whole Serbia area. The government is now proposing to introduce a tax on a 3.5% profit fund. This tax would replace the current contribution to the use of municipal goods of general interest, which in municipalities was paid up to 3.5% and up to 5%, as well as the contribution to residential and solidarity construction, which was paid at 1.3% on gross earnings. It leaves the possibility for congregations to set out the purpose of spending these funds, including part for solid and residential construction. However, knowing the needs of municipal spending municipalities and how much they have spent so far, for example Belgrade had a 5% contribution rate, which is the current rate that is valid, without solid construction. It is almost certain that if the government's proposal is adopted, solid housing construction will be shut down. For all things said, it would be reasonable for the government to give up this proposal. Dear MPs, as I announced at the outset, I would also like to point out some questions that should be regulated in a different way than the proposal for a tax on use, holding and carrying certain goods. First of all, in the case of a tax on the use of motor vehicles, I think it is unwarranted that there is a significant increase in the tax liability, which has already been pointed out by several MPs last week. It's an acceptable principle of justice, to pay for a bigger tax collection car. However, there is no respect for the principle of justice, to adequately tax used cars. The bill says tax cuts on the amortisation name are done 5% for annual use, up to 30% or, in other words, by 6 years. Last Wednesday, you, Minister Djelic, here told a pay phone that the government corrected a reduction of up to 40% or eight years' use of a motor vehicle. However, it is known that the average age of motor vehicles is 12 years. It would be logical that the maximum release is at least 60%, i.e. to recognise depreciation in those 12 years, if it can no longer, and it would be logical for each year to reduce that amount of depreciation. My proposal makes sense to accept it, if we bring it into analogy with the Property Tax Act, where the government proposes that the property tax be reduced due to depreciation by 60%. The second question, which I would like to point out, concerns the proposal for a tax on use, holding and carrying goods, which refers to a tax on holding arms. I've been giving you one event since last Thursday. A friend of mine, Colonel of the Yugoslav Army, was waiting for me at the entrance to the Assembly and said he had been waiting for me for 30 minutes. He told me he got a prize gun when he graduated from the Military Academy as the best in the class. When he graduated from war school, he got a gun again as a prize, as the best in the class. For health reasons, he retired early and was sent off officially and received a gift from a hunting carbine. He claims that no grain was fired from that carbine. As an officer, all three weapons are dear memories. For these reasons, he is extremely emotionally bound. He further states that he has given his son a vow to preserve and transfer these weapons to his granddaughter as his beloved memories. The colonel said if the government's proposal to tax is accepted, it would cut those weapons into pieces and take them to the MUP. Indeed, there are compelling reasons for the government to amend its proposal to tax arms and provide for the release of such and similar cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3904	The word has the MP Srda Popovic, followed by MP Dragan Pantelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3905	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I applied for this discussion, it was my intention to talk programically about a package of new laws, to say something programmically about the newspaper the DOS government intends to introduce in this sphere. It was my idea to mention this DOS campaign, to which so many opposition deputies are invited. Let me remind you, at the beginning of that campaign, the average salary in Serbia was 80 marks, and now the average salary in Serbia is 150 marks, without the right increase in production. The increase in production is a major problem and this is the next data, and it was very important for us to know how to raise real wages in Serbia and citizens know it and it happened. I was going to mention another thing, very important, strategically in the DOS campaign, which is decentralisation and the return of jurisdiction to municipalities. It was my intention to talk about 3.5% of the profit fund, the property tax that is now being registered as municipal income, which is very important to people in municipalities, because, as some say, the Duke's money in the Duke's pocket, my 96 voters claimed - the Lazarus money in the Lazarus pocket. It will never be again: Nis works, Belgrade is being built. I hope this is one important thing we need to talk about. Don't blink, please. My theme was also supposed to be 3.5% relief for companies that allocate resources for environmental purposes. In fact, DOS intends to deal with environmental problems seriously. That's my profession. I've studied it a little bit. Meanwhile, the debate on taxes has become a public topic, number one in Serbia, and that's something citizens talk about, that's something you'll be able to hear on the street. We DOS MPs are very pleased about that. We think that one of the fluids of our victory is that both this Parliament and the people of Serbia will discuss economic issues in the future, social issues, and that in this assembly and in the election campaigns, the battle for parties will be lost and won on those topics that are related to citizens' standards. So, economy, social security, environment, basics. Never again in the empty pirate stories that have usually ended, to remind you, in this House very sad debates and in the very bad atmosphere about various plans, the Daytons, Ahtisaari - Chernomidin, and that was not the topic that made our society happy, as the MPs did not overjoy our society. On the other hand, it made me, since I'm not an expert in the tax system, take away the calculator because I know the multiplication table, address some people who are experts from the government and try to answer the basic questions that are behind this speaker and which citizens are asking every day. We got one result. It is one table available to both MPs and journalists. It is a comparative display of small ones, according to the opposition, a minor charge from 1998 called taxes and various taxes and taxes that we are introducing with this tax reform. It's very simple, believe me, a man doesn't have to be an expert to calculate it. Here is the result: first and foremost, it is obvious that this reform does not introduce new taxes. Some taxes, imposes and taxes are already in place. I'll just list some, since it seems to me that some MPs have forgotten. Citizens, believe me, they haven't forgotten a 3 per cent Belgrade tax, not a famous fee, never understood, to get out of the country, not a citation for railways, not a solidarity log, and that's it, and it's all gone. So first and foremost, we're not introducing any new taxes, we're sorting out the tax system, and we're cutting off some pretty pointless taxes. Secondly, you need to give a public answer, in numbers, to those questions that torture and people that are around me and people that I meet every day and the citizens of this country. It's about some basic things that every citizen asks about. They're about first of all property. The first and basic thing people ask questions about is the apartment. Gentlemen, the apartment is a very important thing. These are the keys to the apartment that my father made fairly, 62 square meters: I took thedigitron to check how much I paid in 98, how much I'm going to pay this year's taxes on that apartment. In particular, he's being held as the owner. I've established that regardless of what we've heard here, different opinions, taxes don't increase. They remain 0.4% at the 1998 tax level. It's true that everyone whose value of the apartments is, and where 70 percent depreciation is recognised, up to 6 million dinars will not pay an increased tax this year. It is true that some, whose value of the apartment crosses that sum, and according to the account of experts from the finance ministry, will pay more than 250 square meters in the narrow zone of downtown Belgrade, greater than 300 square meters in the wider area of Belgrade, a progressive rate, and let them pay. The next important item in the property of our citizens, mentioned by my predecessor, is the one that citizens call a car. A car is a very important issue with property taxes. I took the digitron, a piece of paper and a pen and calculated that in 1998, I paid the two thousand dinars at the time. I'll remind you that at that time, the black course was eight dinars for one mark. It was about 333 marks officially, 250 marks per real, black course. This year, I'm going to pay four thousand dinars per single course, since there is no more black course, which would be about 133 marks, with amortization every year of the vehicle - 5%, and at most 40%, which I'm very interested in. The average age of the car is 12 years. My car's turning 18 this year, so he's gonna be a minor, so I asked him that, too. The next important thing to say is, it's a number between 30% and 40% less. That's verifiable. You know, every year when I register a car, I keep that check, so there's proof of that. There was a tax on the cell phone here. There was a tax on the mobile phone in 1998. The tax on the mobile phone at the time, to remind you, was exactly 100 dinars, according to that course -- eight dinars for the mark, exactly 16, 6 marks. The new solution is 200 dinars, according to current course 6.6 marks. So, more than double the tax on the cell phone was reduced. It can be checked by anyone who, like me, has prepaid cards. It is known how much it costs on the pedestal card, or that 500 - or 1,000 - dinar scratch on the kiosks. It's very simple to check, no matter what some may say about this pay phone. The boat fee was the theme here. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, as a kid, I started fishing. It's clear to me that people who love water that motorboat represents a lot more than a piece of property, it represents life. I've been asking around this boat tax, and I've taken the digitron, and I've calculated that waterfront load up to five meters, so for the spikes that are used by the Danube Alas and plastic weekend boats, and for the famous four or four-and-a-half horse engine, it's 300 dinars or 500 with the engine. Since our river lovers use mostly older vessels, and there is depreciation at every year of the age of a water facility and it goes up to 50%. Most of the owners of boats in this country, both older and smaller, will pay a fee of between 250 and 300 dinars this year. It is true that we have introduced a tax on yachts, but I don't know who it should be except for Mr. Radet Markovic. In the end, 80,000 hunters should not be forgotten. Someone's throwing guns at me. Eighty thousand hunters in this country have heard here that they will have to return their carabines, their hunting weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, compared to the duties they have paid so far, which in 1998 amounted to 37,5 Marks for the hunting caravan, 25 Marks for the hunting rifle, and the duties have been reduced and are 20 Marks for the carabin and 13.3 Marks for the hunting rifle, on an annual basis. The fact that some are concerned about how big a gun tax is going to be, that's what people whose assembly was a place to move a gun are worried about, but 80,000 hunters in this country don't need to worry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you to vote for this package of tax laws and so take an important step forward. Next important reforms in the area of investment, privatisation, a package of social laws. The fight for reform in this country will be long and difficult, such as fighting for fundamental democratic rights. We have shown that we are very persistent when we engage. This country began to move forward on October 5th. The Slovenian Parliament held a meeting every day for seven months until it brought legislation into line with the European Union's regulation. (President: Time. ) The anti-reform forces were collapsing there, doing nothing, and the process went on. It's a historic process. That's how it's gonna be in Serbia. This country is heading towards Europe, slowly but surely, and that is what is the mission of us DOS MPs in this assembly, to bring Serbia to the point from which there is no turning back to the isolated and criminalised state you left us with. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a great Europe and there is room in it for all the citizens of this country, and there is room for those of you who are so afraid in Europe this time because you can't see beyond the stories of a world conspiracy against Serbs. The Sionic sage protocol, mondialysm. Believe me, we're going to Europe, and that process cannot be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3906	The People's MP Dragan Pantelic has the word, followed by MP Mujo Mukovic. Since Dragan Pantelic has given up, the word has been passed by MP Mujo Mukovic, followed by MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3907	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to refer to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. The amendments to the provisions of this law, which give greater authority to local authorities, are in place both when determining the degree of burden on taxpayers in their territories and when it comes to determining the purpose of the public revenues raised. These changes are heading towards decentralisation of power. I would like, as an MP for the Sandzak Democratic Party, so one regional party, to support the government's efforts in this direction, although it is the first and initial steps in that direction. So it's about our party's basic programming definitions. Someone here very picturesquely said that the claustro centralization of the government was maximumly tightened in one direction. Now the government is making efforts to gradually move in a different direction. It will move until it reaches its optimal position. I, like the citizens, have the understanding that now this crevice should not suddenly be pushed in the opposite direction. Citizens will surely support the government in this effort, as they have understanding of the still poor standard and for the difficult economic situation. However, what citizens may possibly resent the government is the slowness of the government, i.e. the resolute ministries in implementing staff changes in the republican, state authorities, public enterprises and institutions at lower levels. These changes, combined with the return of certain powers to local self-government, would be practically respect for the election will of citizens, as citizens voted for change on October 5th. These days and today, we have heard a lot of criticism here from the opposition to the work of the government, on the proposals of the new legal solutions that the government is proposing. Of course, there's nothing to argue about. The opposition is there to criticise the government, often without the right arguments. However, the credibility of the opposition is raised, since it was the government until yesterday. In particular, the question of individuals from the opposition who were as we know about the feathers of the former regime is raised. Also, the question arises as far as these criticisms can go, not to go beyond the limits of good taste, not from the government's point of view or from the parliamentary majority's point of view, but from the point of view of citizens who certainly do not have a short memory and who, for the past 10 years, have been in power, who has led this country to this state. So, any criticism of citizens at the expense of the government that will arrive or may already arrive, they are completely different. I'd say they're quite the opposite of the criticism we hear here in Parliament by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3908	The word has a folk MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by Jakov Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3909	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first admire my young friend, who will one day certainly become a great politician. He can pick the data, he can place it, but unfortunately, he can't count. He took a rapper cab in 1998, so it worked out like he said. However, he forgot to say that those fees in 2000 were the same and that in 2000, the black course, as he calls it, was 40 dinars. The tax of 100 dinars was five marks, and now the tax of 200 dinars is more than eight marks. It's a great story. It's just a bad bill. The course rests, and the other thing, apparently he didn't buy anything long ago, and he didn't get bills from the firm, which at the bottom of the page, so shyly, he writes, the accounting course for a German mark is 33.5 dinars. I'll show him after the check. But this budget and tax laws have been discussed so far by many MPs and several ministers. It's possible to extract several irrelevant facts from their speech so far. First, if Mr. Minister had had to consult with all the experts in this area, at least within his coalition, before submitting this bill to the Assembly for a decision. Secondly, that Mr. Minister claims that the budget and following the legal transparency, and if we prove and if we have proven that almost a quarter of the budget's revenues are hidden, and that's only the revenues from excises and taxes compared to the quantities of goods and services taxed last year, it shows that the budget is not transparent, but that it's the budget as they call it in the West -- black funds. If there weren't any black funds, there wouldn't be this many hand-to-hands in citizens' pockets. That's the third. Four is that all tax laws are unconstitutional, i.e. that they are in collapsing with the Tax System Fundamentals Act, which does not allow double taxation, i.e. taxing on sales. Fifthly, these legal projects primarily hit the poorest layers of society, then the middle layer, while those with property worth several million marks die laughing at the annual expenditures of tens of thousands of marks. Those who drive jeeps and angry cars spend more money on tips than the amounts you threatened to pay for a vehicle registration. The sixth, to be taxed from now on, so in the future they have to charge in the manner of tax payers from the West, first of all Go Amin Dade and Bokas, who also charged taxes at night, so if the taxpayers didn't have money, they ate them. That tax laws are the result of pre-election lies about large financial aid, those villains who otherwise caused us 50 billion dollars worth of damage. Eight, that both the budget and the tax laws are the basis for the criminal prosecution of their creators, who, by one move only, by the Regulation on the transport of oil and oil products, damaged the state of Serbia for 35 million dollars that they pushed into the Croatian budget, and 15 million marks of direct damage to the tax on services that will not be charged by domestic carriers, by the river fleet, by the railway and the owner of the car-cistern. The basis for criminal charges is that there are more than 10,000 workers left without a job, in transport companies, in the river fleet, in shipping companies and in oil companies. Ninth, how could you possibly have passed the laws of adoption to the Assembly without having previously sent them to The Hague or to the European Union. Do you have permission to submit these laws to the Assembly for adoption if you have not been granted at least Bodo Hombah? Now that you've done all this, all you've got to do is charge people the tax on property they've earned for years with all the denials, the car cuts that you so gallantly let them do to the European car cemetery, and to which they've already paid all the taxes, by the way. To collect a salary tax, which workers do not have to accept, but they have to pay a gross contribution. Whoever's talking about increasing the pension base and benefits of pensions obviously has no idea about the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, and the provisions of that law, on average. A time bomb, Mr. Minister, which will explode in the heart of Serbia, which needs to be disarmed, is not a pension basis. The time bomb that needs to be disarmed is this government. This government that says we have a happier future with it. He's not smiling at us. He's laughing at us. The tax on profit that most companies can only wish for, unless the tax exemption of 3.5%, which my young friend mentions, does not help. With this package of tax laws, there's no need to worry about ecology. We'll shut down all the factories and we'll be an absolutely ecological state. Tax on the profit fund, which abolishs the solidarity of housing. You killed yourself explaining to us that it's not being abolished, but it's being left to solve the local self-government. If they don't build apartments, if they want to spend that money somewhere else, does the law oblige them to do what you recommend? It's normal not to commit them. Now the agricultural producers, by your solution, separate 3.5%, 1.5%, or I don't know how much for a solid residential building. They haven't gotten those apartments yet, and when, like Jackna, we don't know. You round the financial transaction tax along with the PDO commission to 1%. However, the worst in this Matthias tax-law singer was passed by service providers. The first tax was introduced on the marketing of services at 20%, then when owners of these companies or employers of the business units pay their profits to themselves and employees again in addition to health and disability benefits pay another 20% of the gross income tax, means also a contribution to health and social insurance. Finally, after this haircut, when they pull out some church girl wherever they go, there's a new 20% tax on everything they want to buy or use, and I don't understand that you stubbornly reject well-intentioned advice, suggestions and amendments. I have proposed an amendment that absolutely eliminates the possibility of manipulation in the calculation and collection of taxes, and you have rejected it. Clearly, it's the influence of some lobby that uses this as a valve to import without tax. Otherwise, no one in their right mind would refuse hundreds of millions of budget revenues unless it was instructed to do so out of higher interest and no longer defend the bill's proposals by saying - we took it from the current law or - and the previous government did the same. It wasn't the people who chose you to be the government of continuity, it was the government of change. Everything you've changed, you've changed it in a freak way. Sinning is human, Mr. Minister, and admitting a mistake is human, but it seems to me that the problem is that you think it's a little bit more humane. Let's get one more thing straight about the last government. I fully agree with you that the past government has been the worst that has ruled Serbia since the old people say the pigtail has twisted. The government may have been worse than the one where New Democracy has been harassing Serbia for four years and I am very glad that the Serbian Radical Party did not participate in the previous government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3910	The word has been given by MP Jakov Stamenkovic, and after that, MP to the people, Borisvoje Katic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3911	Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, as you know DOS went on a campaign with a parole -- to carry out reforms. These reforms will certainly be implemented by DOS and one of the key items is the reform of the tax system. It is simply necessary to introduce order in this area, to know where the money is going, and not like so far, dozens of dedicated taxes are being paid outside the budget, in different funds and public enterprises, over which there was no control, or no good control mechanism has been established. Let me remind you where everything and how the funds were poured out. You know that in terms of taxes, additional taxes, for example for railways and Belgrade, were paid, there were special relief regimes for privileged ones, such as the delay in the obligation to pay taxes and contributions, allowing them to pay net earnings without previous accounting and tax collection and contributions. The situation of the gray economy is well known to us all. There are data on the basis of which the following results are obtained: only unpaid excise duties on tobacco, oil and alcohol, the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been damaged annually up to $1 billion. There were high taxes on earnings, already said that on 100 dinars there were taxes of 105 dinars, there were different basiss for calculating taxes on earnings, etc. What does this new, democratic and reform government want to change? Most importantly, the new government proposes to charge taxes on gross earnings. What does it matter? There were a lot of objections and objections here, which is why taxes are charged on a warm meal, on a regress, etc. and unlike those who claim that it is not an important basis for pension insurance, we believe that the consequences of the policy that has been conducted so far, i.e. that the tax was only charged on minimum net income, without everything else being taxed, will be seen only when people retire and when they see their pensions. So, the concept of gross wages removes anomalies that have been in the tax system so far and will be seen very quickly. It is also important to note that the amount of income tax will be lower and that is simply because the base of the income tax is expanding, so the contribution rates will be less so as to keep the employee and employer on the same. Instead of the current 105 dinars, the tax on 100 dinars of net earnings will be 70 dinars. I'd stick to the Law of Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods right now. We all know that the only real prices were expressed in stamps, and as much as anyone didn't like it, comparisons have been done since 1998, and what the new government is proposing, it's clear that all taxes paid on cars, on mobile phones, on all kinds of weapons, although some have objections as to why on the hunting carbine, some of which, on the small caliber rifle, here, gentlemen, there are data in this table that all these taxes are paid earlier with what's been expressed in German marks, they're all smaller now. I just heard a comment earlier when someone threw it behind me, said I wasn't paying taxes. We know that many of you, or those who have been in power or besides the government, have not paid taxes and one way to get everyone into the same position, that everyone pays taxes is this way. What is also important is that the government takes care of the most vulnerable, which also confirms that the budget has been set aside for 300,000 poorest households, in fact a special budget of around three billion dinars has been set up and this should be a compensation measure for the collection of some in their consumption of the most important products. So the biggest price of reform will pay the richest, not as the poorest so far. Also, when we adopt the extra profit tax, all the luxury will be taxed, but not because we don't like rich people, but because people have come to these treasures thanks not to their abilities but to their privileges, because they were in power or near power, means their privileged positions, and in this way at least part of the injustice will be corrected and a new system of values will rest on abilities, not on privileges. Therefore, gentlemen, we no longer want to live in a state of vision but reality, and reality requires reforms, complete reforms of the social and political system. We are aware that this path will be a lot of obstacles, but this new democratic and reform government is ready to deal with these obstacles to the election. Besides, the more obstacles it is, the sweeter the victory, because the road without obstacles leads to impediment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3912	The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Katic, and after that, MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3913	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, all the legal projects that are in front of us today and that fill the budget, which actually feeds the blood flow of a society, when compared to those taxes we've had so far, it's very clear that these taxes, which we have today, at nothing, are neither giving nor taxing more than the previous one. That's really so many times said here and it's also very clear, and it's also clear that these taxes are only increased by that inflation that is clearly foreseen by this budget and even less. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a illogicality that has not been clear to me since the beginning of this session. The opposition comes out for this pay phone and speaks very clearly and deliberately about not accepting the legal project ahead of us, and it endures a host of amendments. I'm really curious about why. If in advance, in the principle debate, you will not accept certain legal projects, why do you submit so many amendments? To make evil bigger, many of these amendments are accepted by the government on boards, resulting in that, not voting for a legal project, they are literally voting against their amendments. It is a very clear intention that these amendments do not want to improve the functioning of budgets and legislative projects, but that one of the best obstructions is to be made. Ladies and gentlemen, these legal projects and budgets are one truth. It's been told to the people one truth about everything that's happened to us in the past ten years. It is clearly and unequivocally spoken in all these projects and in the budget itself. You know, the truth I can never tell you is the mean ones. The truth tells you... (President: Please stick to the topic)... who have good intentions, who really want to improve this country. This government has indeed drawn one line with the previous regime. A very clear line is undermined, a desire to inject a democratic improvement and a civilizational basis into the social life of the new Serbia. You know, I understand that the truth is very painful and I understand and I can assume that feeling in which people are told when the truth is said, when a man finds himself in an environment where he feels terrible, when he gets scared, that he comes into a situation, to avoid that fear, to yell. That's why this pay phone sends out screams, arrogance and they very clearly talk about the intention to challenge social unrest in public opinion, social unrest, one situation we've had to see in the last ten years, because it's a simple environment in which these people live, it's their natural environment, in which they know they live, but it's clear that it won't come and that Serbia is looking for big steps in its better future. We, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be responsible for what no one has asked us... (President: Please hold the topic for the second time). I think, Mr. President, that I'm in the dark, because everything that's been said from this pay phone lately, I'm sure I'm in the context, absolutely, and now I'm gonna end up. You, ladies and gentlemen, spoke very clearly of those great things from this booth, giving this country what reminds me of that people's, "My giving hurts my head has made him sound."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3914	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3915	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, by adopting an unreal inflation budget for 2001, amounting to over 130 billion, you have caused this set of laws, this "violence charge" -- a set of laws that should force citizens to fill this budget. Mr. Minister, you said that the revenues from this set of laws are small, but they are for the citizens and how great. It does not introduce or tax anything new - which is not true, because it is taxed and what has never been taxed before. So the expenditure on this set is going to be up to 5 marks, which is also incorrect, and this is some moderation of tax progression, which also doesn't stand. What it stands for is that this is only transparent, and in translation transparency means transparent, glassy, meaning that this people, who currently have no means, want to skin naked. As far as the company profit tax bill is concerned, you could change this one member and say that it is a monopolitical enterprise, because it alone will be able to pay these taxes, while all other companies will be closed after 6 or 7 months, so you will not be able to realise this tax that you have provided for on corporate tax income. In the proposal for a tax on property tax, there is a tax on immovable property on a useful area with the average market price of a square metre. This tax rate is increasing. It used to be 0.20%, and now it's 0.40%, and for larger objects it's progressively increasing. This increase is for those who have great fixedness, which is not so important, it is important that those who have small ones are taxed too. On the other hand, there's another anomaly. The same is compared to the square meter of the person who got the living space and bought it for 10 or 20 marks, and the one who spent his whole life investing and building his own house, his home for life for himself and his family. As far as the Bill of Taxes is concerned, the use and use of certain goods, you have violated your pre-election promises here. There were certain taxes, which you repeatedly pointed out and criticised with the previous government, that the fees were unrealistic, that they were imposed and that when you came to power, you would end it. You've abolished the fees, but you've nicely translated them into the bill, so you've taxed everything from car to mobile phones, boats and aircraft to weapons. You taxed cars so that some car owners would have to pay more taxes than the value of those cars. She was so weird and she made your decision to import old cars. It was just one bait to get people to invest money, get cars, and now they're gonna have to pay taxes on those cars. The bill on the use of mobile phones -- there was a story here that in 1998 it was much cheaper, but it should be reminded that there were 100-200 000 mobile phones at the time, that that was when the mobile phone cost about 1,000 DM. Today the mobile phone is a very cheap thing and necessary for life, and costs about 100-200 DM. This 200-dollar tax is really big, because it's a monthly tax, and in a year it exceeds the price of the apparatus we use. As for the proposal to tax arms, I will remind you that, when Mr. Minister laid out his exposés, I compared his exposés through that general section to the Kushner exposé, when he came to Kosovo, and probably this is due to the fact that by holding hunting weapons, rifles, carabines, threatened American interests. That's why weapons should be taxed, since taxation rates are very high, then citizens will have to free themselves of that weapon, in order not to endanger that American stability. As far as the proposal for a tax on financial transactions is concerned, it is a law introduced from the conditions that were then created and then the funds were strictly intended, used for rebuilding the country, destroyed by the bombing that took place in 1999. You are now removing these funds as a tax for rebuilding the country, but that is why you are introducing a tax and the people will continue to pay these financial transactions. I would suggest, since there are now vulnerable Serbs, and these are very endangered Serbs, who have remained to live in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, that at least 50% of these funds be allocated to Serbs who have decided to live in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. What Serbs would spend these funds in Kosovo and Metohija -- they would spend above all on the university, for education, for health care, for infrastructure, for apartments, because we are aware that many houses have been destroyed, for the financing of workers, because we know that there is not one job, that they are all fired, then, for building a hall of sports and stadiums -- now we are taking action to make one hall of sports and to create a stadium in Kosovo Mitrovica; then, for the business space of state authorities, because they have nowhere to work, they have no place to receive citizenship, for culture, for sport, for everything they do not currently have, and they need, as they could function, to live and work. So I think that by one regulation, by one decision, 50% of the tax on financial transactions could be rerouted to improve the lives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The draft law amending the House Act abolishes the funds for the Housing Solidarity Fund. The reason, you say, is that abuse, there was one board of directors, and now it's being transferred to municipalities, to 200 boards of directors, and the possibility of abuse will be even greater. To break one law because there were some abuses, it is a very bad explanation and does not stand, especially because we know that a large population could only get to the roof over its head. And the last in a series of these laws is the Bill of Taxes on the Fund of Profits. This is one move towards decentralisation, I just don't agree that the tax is not clearly defined and the possibility is left up to 3.5%, so it's left with the possibility of manipulation again, that the authorities of local self-government determine according to the sympathies to which the tax will determine 0.5%, and to whom between 3 and 5%. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to introduce you to the fact that today, yesterday and the day before, is very tumultuous in the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija. The Occupiers introduced customs on Easter, at the border crossings in Zubin Potok and Leposavic municipalities. I should remind you it is against Security Council Resolution 1244. The occupier argues that these customs are introduced with the consent of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and customs will have a very devastating effect on the life of Serbs. I just asked you to say this, this is very current, it's much more important than a set of tax laws that need to be passed without being effective for two months. With the introduction of customs, Serbs feel like they belong to a state, so that is an introduction to the creation of an independent state of Kosovo. The second effect is economical, because with the customs, anyway, expensive goods, which are currently 30 to 50% more expensive, in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica will be even more expensive, so the occupier, in co-operation with the Shiptars, since they were unable to drive the Serbs out of the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, will try this customs, i.e. This economic pressure, to banish the remaining Serbs. I would like and I would like the topic to finally be introduced -- Kosovo, so that the Serbian Parliament will plead out on these problems, which plague the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3916	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3917	Dearly respected Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, we have before us a debate on a package of seven laws, and this - a bill on corporate tax, property tax, tax on use, holding and carrying goods, financial transactions, housing, local self-government and income tax. So, a whole series of very important and fatal laws for our people, given the situation in which we are in economy. In this difficult economic situation, new imposes are imposed on the people. In addition, however, something else is noticeable, which is -- during the debate on the budget, the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget, has been organised, the arrest of SPS President Slobodan Milosevic, and thus distracted citizens and voters from this very important topic. Last week, during a debate on the set of these laws, a new process against the SPS parliamentary group president, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, was organised. It is a shame that these significant laws are being discussed in the package, not individually, because that way our voters can understand the essence of these tax laws that each taxpayer and every householder will be affected. The Socialist Party of Serbia represents the interests of people living off their work, whether workers are in factories, farmers in fields or intellectuals. However, in the very basis of defining tax policy is more than an illegal arrogance towards our troubled people after sanctions that continue to persist in the unfeeling NATO aggression that was in 1999. Some trade unions have been consulted during the adoption of these laws, and some have not. These days, a lot of members of the Independent Union who have not consulted on this package, and we know that the Independent Union in previous times of over 300,000 disputes, as far as it was run between workers and employers, have managed to resolve more than 95% in favour of workers. It may sound old-fashioned to someone, but without the elemental interests of the working class, without strengthening production, there's no social progress. Basically, every production is a man who works there, and without production, there's no income. In addition, Republika Srpska Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said from this pay phone that industrial production in Serbia is only 25% for now, so citizens will be forced, not all, but certain, to sell their property, or part of it, to carry out their obligations to the state in the coming period. So it's not about affecting citizens' incomes, it's about the substance. As one of the representatives of the Serb people from Cosmet in this House, I would like to ask Minister Djelic: How and how will the tax laws in Kosovo and Metohija apply? Because, as my predecessor said, since yesterday, eight hours has been set customs. As I left Kosovo and Metohija, representatives of the Belgian battalion asked me for a passport. Hans Hackerup, UN Secretary-General's special envoy for the week, will bring a document saying the Kosovo state will have its president, the assembly, the constitutional court. So, executive and legislative authority. Why are we silent about this and why does the Serbian parliament not say so? The road we're going now is a road that leads to the sale of 4.5 thousand of our companies, as the London Times says these days. Because every economist knows that a foreigner in our country is making extra profits, and he doesn't leave it in the country, and even less wants to invest it in infrastructure, schools, hospitals. With regard to the proposal for a tax on the use, holding and carrying of goods, they particularly fall into the eyes of the enormous amounts provided for the taxation of the owner of registered weapons. Such a tax policy will be affected by citizens who keep these weapons at home to protect their family from growing crime and terrorism that threatens our country's independence. Such green sums that gun owners have to extract from their home incomes will surely force them to give up their property, and many of them to violate the law that represents illegal weapons possession. In addition to the end-users there are indeed many, I must point out the disastrous consequences of this kind of tax policy on the domestic industry. The SPS MP group in the National Assembly these days received a letter from the flag - the dedicated products in which they react and gave the opinion that the bill on taxes on use, wearing and keeping goods. I believe that the world's famous Zastava - Purpose Products factory will be virtually closed, because the adoption of the proposed arms tax directly violates the interest of the manufacturer, and thus the domestic market will, in some ways, close, endanger some of the employees and increase the labour force's surplus. The supply of second-hand weapons will increase, the percentage of illegal trafficking and ownership will increase, and citizens who have legalized weapons will feel deceived. In the end, I will finish my presentation with the words I had already referred to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I did not get an answer to that question. Mr. Minister Djelic, in Article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 3, reads: "The obligation to pay taxes and other taxes is determined according to the economic power of the taxpayer." The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that 120 billion dinars, how much they should be made to the budget this year, divided by approximately the number of inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia, mean that each citizen, from a baby in a cradle to a pensioner, will single out 12,000 annually, or 1,000 dinars per month. I'm asking you, you honestly believe that in this difficult economic situation, at the moment we're in, it's possible to realize what's going to happen to bonds that aren't able to meet it. There are certain sanctions there, but what if it can't be done?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3918	The word has the People's MP Mr. Djura Lazic, and the next is the MP, Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3919	The respected presidency, respected members of the government, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, has indeed said a lot these days about a package of tax laws that the government of the Republic of Serbia has put under consideration to the Serbian parliament. There were opinions and positive government moves, but there were also a lot of objections. One thing is that we are having a debate on the tax package in a very difficult time, at a time when many separatist forces occur both in Kosovo and Metohija, in Montenegro, in southern Serbia, when we are at risk of breaking up the state. There were a lot of the worst words from individuals, at the expense of last period. I think there are weaknesses in the functioning of the state organs in every period, but there are also positive things that the new government needs to respect. We shouldn't all be looking black for one period, especially if we think that there are exceptional sanctions from the international community for our years. In these conditions, our government and our country had to resort to protect the safety of citizens, to mitigate the social situation of citizens, and at the same time to encourage the functioning of the economy as a basis for social upgrade, that is, social product. The international community's sanctions against our country have been lifted after the DOS authorities were won. Our citizens, and I myself, were expecting a better period. It was realistic that there was a better time for our country, first of all to free ourselves from these chains of the international community and to allow for better functioning of the economy and better flow of goods and capital, in order to stimulate economic production and create greater national income. It turned out, based on the current situation in the economy, much harder than it was half a year ago, and that fewer collectives and less capacity work for us, and businessmen and economists know that economics is the basis for budgeting. It is not good that we have paid little attention to this issue of resuscitation and promotion of production in enterprises, as a basis of social product. That's why I think Minister Djelic and the government will pay more attention to this in the coming period. I didn't see that in this package of measures it was quite pronounced, but it was more likely to go through tax laws, to the arrest of citizens. I understand that you pay the liabilities for extra profits and what is really possible to pay. It is illogical for people who built a house in the country, on their property, to pay taxes on these facilities, on buildings that serve them as housing, because that way doubles tax obligations are paid. Taxes on land and tax on an object which man himself created for his household and his family. As for the latest moves by the international community, namely UNMIK, in the northern part of the Leposavic municipality, there are indeed great reactions by our people, as representatives of the international community point out that the move to set up a customs checkpoint has been taken with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other representatives of the Yugoslav authorities. People react, and I'm obliged to ask the government's representatives, is it true what Hans Hekerup is saying? That's what they'd like to know. If these customs offices get tough, it's really a question of how these people are going to stay down and what's going to happen to them after everything we've heard from my predecessor, what Hackerup and the international community are preparing down there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3920	There is a word from MP Zoran Nikolic, then MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3921	I must admit that as an SPS MP, it is really not easy for me to talk about this package of tax laws, when the president of my party is sick in prison and when against my comrades and my parties are being conducted by a hack, which has not been recorded since the time of the IB and the Google Island. However, not wanting to violate the Rules of Procedure with my discussion, let me say a few words about the law package that is before us. As always, first of all, I would point out what I think is good in these laws. The whole package of laws we are considering today is well done in a formal, i.e. legal and technical sense. This is particularly evident if we compare these laws to those proposed by the Government and discussed at previous sessions. This is certainly due to Minister Djelic and his determination to retain professional associates in his ministry, who have done their job properly so far. I am particularly stressing this, because this is reflected in the practice that has been established since 5 October, from the level of the local community, local self-government to the largest state authorities, to be replaced, resolved, demoted and even kicked out of work by staff and experts who have done these jobs so far just because they were put up by previous authorities. It is the beginning of good practice and an attempt by the minister to consult and exchange views with different economic and political groups before submitting the bill to the Assembly. However, it seems to me that there was not enough power to accept the numerous and strong arguments of the Chamber of Commerce, trade unions, political parties and the same infrastructures in the draft laws that we are considering today. I think this should have been done, because the necessary condition for our country is at this stage a consensus on important economic issues due to its internal stability and even survival. I don't think it was a good thing for you to be honest in a particular case. Thirdly, positively, the adoption of this package of laws refers to simplifying the part of the fiscal system by equating the basis for taxing and reducing the number of taxes in the tax system. This will certainly contribute to a more efficient collection of income. I think the end of the story is about the good side of this package. In a number of government officials' performances, it stands out as a special value for this package of laws, the reform character and their so-called so-called ". transparency. I don't think these issues are based on facts after all. Namely, the magnitude and character of the change proposed by these laws cannot really be called reformal. The only important change is the replacement of the compensation for solid residential construction and the benefit for the use of goods in general, the new income tax, the same nominal value or approximate and without determining the purpose of using these funds. I am sure that it is very clear to Minister Djelic that there is no beginning of a real reform of the existing, 1991, built, tax system without the introduction and application of the additional value tax, a tax without which there is no essential integration into European and global economic flows, a tax that has become an indispensable part of the fiscal system of all developed countries because of its betrayal. As far as transparency is concerned, if this implies a clear and visible demonstration of all relevant revenues and expenditures of a single country, I would like to make one comparison of these regulations to those that have been passed over the past years. I chose 1994, because then he started a new dinar that was equal to a German brand, which is values that are easier to compare. Otherwise, the budget was worth 2.1 billion, and total public spending in 1994 was projected on four billion German marks. The budget in the formal sense was shown on 34 pages. This budget, which we've had a chance to consider these days, has been on half the smaller sides, on page 17. In this non-transparent 1994 budget, you could conclude, in addition to what the state will spend on the salaries and material costs of the state authorities, and the public as well, how much the state will spend to encourage the research work of young people, to preserve Miroslav's Gospel, to regulate the banks of the Drina River in order to protect Pavlovic will before or as much for the Republic Fund for Regional Development. I think these examples clearly indicate that the rules, which have been passed so far, also have a clear feature of transparency, which is so much talked about today. And not only that, from what I have said and from numerous examples that I have not cited, which are written in the budgets so far, until 2000, it is clear that these budgets and following tax laws had a clear developmental character. That stimulating, developmental part has lagged in the budget and in this package ahead of us. So you can't find all these examples in the regulations that we're considering today. On the contrary, we have the fact that very large amounts of funds are planned and left to the discretionary assessment of individuals, the most respected finance minister, and that for large amounts within these powers there is no legal basis for the distribution of these funds. This specifically refers to the part about the social care of vulnerable families, where billions of dinars are planned to be spent, and we know that Serbia still does not have a family social map and that many months and years should pass to make the social map a valid criterion for the distribution of these funds. I'd like to say a few words about the compliance of the law we're talking about today with federal regulations in this area. Although one of his colleagues clearly spoke about it, it is clear that the system law on the basis of the tax system did not change the Federal Assembly. It remains in force double the amount of sales tax, different access to excise duties, as well as other budget revenues. This means that anyone who has a legal interest, and under these regulations indeed has all the citizens and all the economic operators, can, after the entry into force of these laws, initiate a procedure for assessing the conformity of these laws with federal law, with the sole possible epilogue to put these laws out of force by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The fact that the federal government submitted the Bill on Amendments to the Tax System Law does not affect the consequences that I spoke of earlier. Now that I have already mentioned this bill, it is interesting that it contains in the most part, in fact, and in language and grammar terms, the reasoning that contains the laws that are before us today. This clearly indicates that these federal regulations are also written in the Republic Government. What implications can it have, I won't really use this pay phone, and if it corresponds to the views of some others on the survival of the common state. Dear People's MPs, the draft laws, which are ahead of us, are challenging between us and the public conflicting comments. Just in order to find out what effect it will have on economic life, I've divided these bill proposals into several enterprises, larger, smaller and medium-sized, to come up with arguments related to these effects. Simulation of their application has been performed and the results do not speak in favour of the discharge that is so talked about. I'm sorry that I'm losing perhaps to the authenticity of my discussion and I can't state the names of these companies, because we live at a time when the SPS is mentioned in some business collective is immediately conducted by deep and all kinds of controls. This is certainly not the Minister's initiative, but some other strengths and structures, but it's not the subject of this debate either. I think these laws were actually written in October and November of last year, following talks by our representatives with IMF representatives, when certain parameters and allowed volumes of public spending, growth parameters and other conditions to be met in order to return to membership. However, it's obvious that...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3922	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3923	Excuse me, one more sentence. The lack of respect or non-recognition of the economic power of taxpayers will deepen the recession of economic life, stimulate non-payment of taxes and increase the grey economy, all of which will result in a deterioration in the position of all budgetary users. This team before, which is evident that the budget growth norm is disproportionate to the growth in budget beneficiaries' earnings, which, day by day, loses the price race, is proportional to industrial production. For all these reasons, I am of the opinion that these laws will not achieve the objectives for which they are adopted, and for these reasons they should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3924	The word has a folk MP Milan Stankovic, followed by MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3925	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, for several days now, there has been a debate on a package of tax laws, which will undoubtedly hit the poorest part of the citizens, and in our case the majority of the citizens, because, just to remind you, the interests of some countries have been to destroy our country, to impoverish our country and our citizens, which is why we've been under sanctions for 10 years. That's why there was armed aggression against our country. In such circumstances, citizens have lived very hard and with such tax laws, in such economic circumstances as we are now in, it will live even harder, it is doubtless. I would also like to remind you that many economic operators have stopped working since 5 October, many have dried up and completely suspended their production. It doesn't take much sense to understand the government's intention with these tax laws and with the adopted budget. Let every citizen of this country who deals with private affairs think carefully about filling his budget at home. Is it going to work by taking money from parents, grandparents every day and filling their budgets, or getting busy, starting their own work, and thus filling their budgets? The exact same situation exists in our country right now. The government does not want to make an effort to consolidate our economy, to get on its feet, to start creating income, and then tax that income and fill the budget. The government, unfortunately with its wrong moves, is not taking a path that Serbia will go into a brighter future. The order of government moves is such that it significantly bounces away from pre-election promises, not to say that it leads to the complete opposite of what they promised. However, the government may have promised this, but some other citizens of Serbia, and it certainly did not promise this. The government put before itself the task of filling the budget, as usual, very transparent. First, the budget was 3.5 times higher than in the previous year, it was 35 billion, and now it's 129 billion. One logical question arises immediately, whether they will pay educational workers, doctors and other employees 3.5 times higher, not only in nominal value, but whether standard and purchasing powerful people will grow 3.5 times. The answer is quite clear, of course not, because our economy is not working. There's our whole problem. Secondly, in order for the government to fill a budget this huge, and of course it can't out of the economy, because it doesn't work anyway, the government remembered that the money for filling the budget bank exists in the public's personal savings. All we have to do is get the citizens to put the money in that bank themselves. The way, or to express myself in the jargon, the money sticker in the budget bank, the government thought of making a package of tax laws and thus allowing one of these huge budgets, unsuitable to our terms. When we add to this a statistically established drop in industrial production, and this can be seen in all areas, in Borsk, in Zajecarsko, etc., where almost all companies have been working since 5 October, including giants, such as Bor and Majdanpek, the government's intention is indeed transparent. The first intention is to kidnap and impoverish citizens through these laws. Secondly, to try to fill the budget in this way, and then to return from the budget a handful of employees in the form of nominally higher salaries, and whose real value will be lower, because already prices are growing and that's in stamps. The value of the consumer basket has increased, the price of electricity is rising, so for all these payments, citizens will have to spend their savings, although their salary is nominally higher. The government's third intention is also very transparent because it has inaction allowed those companies that have worked, closed and stopped working. All these three things that the government is now working alongside a hickey on political inexperiences, hacks and rights, but more on imaginary thieves, while the real ones are walking around freely, representing one, a preparation for fast and uncompromising privatisation, which the government wants to do so that 30 to 40 percent of the shares to workers, 70 percent immediately sell to the market most often foreign, possibly domestic investors. Under these circumstances, it is clear how many people will be on the street as much work force. The government's second goal is to throw dust in the eyes of citizens, due to developments in Kosovo and Vojvodina. As we and citizens deal with the budget, tax laws, customs checkpoints between the administrative border of Kosovo and Metohija are established during that time. Tax laws that are proposed are laws adapted to developed countries, not to us. As Noah Chomsky said to one of his books, capitalism is a system designed to take the poor, not to take the rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3926	Dear fellow Members of the People, I have been very disciplined and regularly listening to all these days your proposals, countless amendments, the budgets you have proposed, and I simply could not believe my own eyes and ears. Is it possible that you, who brought us back to the future in the late '80s and early '90s, dared to do something like that again? Will you take us again with your amendments and your budgets to where the workers you were seduced today have a total of two years' wages equal to your monthly incomes. Gentlemen, you have introduced a tax that has not been known in Europe with your myths and militarism, which is a tax on freedom. Of course, those of you who introduced it don't feel it, and you don't know what that tax meant to us, ordinary citizens. We who were not free to go to the nearest store or to work, we know how high that tax was. Please don't try to bring us any more of those budgets that brought you factories, some Gods and mines, credits, medals, some big pieces, commissions, airports, private planes. You, gentlemen, and your officers, your dead and your wounded, some kind of liberation wars, the dates when you were enslaved and you were freed. (President: Please stick to the agenda. We have recently celebrated one of those. We, what did we have? Actually, we had those of yours, i.e. our dead and wounded. We have the misery and poverty that is not in Europe. We've got diseases that are breaking down on us in flocks. It's all that, misery and pain. As you threw away, I remembered Hemingway, who said, "Better one night a lion than a 100-year-old calf, it's better to die on your feet than live on your knees." Gentlemen, many of you, not that they were one night, but were many years lions, but we were never calves. (President: For the second time please stick to the agenda theme. True, you and your laws have thrown us down from your knees. It's just, we're in this misery, we're crawling, we're crawling, but, you know, we're gonna get up on our feet, not to die, but to live. And you listen to the people who tell you and recommend: cover yourselves with your own ears, and keep your mouth shut. You know, there's no more army, no more police, no more RTS to provide you with conditions, that you're messing up and muttering.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3927	Here you go - according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3928	In accordance with Rule 95, the gentleman who was now speaking violated several members of the Rules of Procedure. He wasn't talking about the subject. He spoke offensively of other people's messengers; the time that passed was in a way that spoke of him all things, and he said nothing of us. The time is coming he talked about in a way that no one here understands besides him. (President: You too are violating the Rules of Procedure because you are entering a replica. I ask you to focus on breaking the Rules of Procedure. I don't use direct speech. Mr. President, you warned me last time. So, not one word here was what was on the agenda, but about some kind of imaginary freedom tax. Serbia is a big secret. He doesn't know what night he's wearing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3929	Please continue your work. Mr. Ambassador, are you expecting an answer at all or did you go out to abuse a pay phone, as did the previous speaker?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3930	I don't abuse a pay phone at all. The previous one broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3931	Didn't you hear he's been warned twice about that? Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a Minister of the Forest.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3932	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to clarify the solutions to the Bill of Amendments of the House Act. So, the Solidarity Building Fund stays. The Finance Committee adopted an amendment to the government and to the MPs, under which the funds reached between 0.3 per cent and 1% on the income tax are aimed at solid housing construction. On this broad base, that 1% means actually 1.45%, which means more than it was. In this way, this government, above all at local level, in municipalities, wants to solve housing problems, primarily wartime military peoples and socially endangered populations, in such a way that, unlike the previous authorities, the funds will be spent on a local scale. We've seen an example of the Upper Milanite here. We have received complaints from Užica, Kraljev, from many places that these funds have not been spent on purpose and that the new municipal authorities, after the September elections last year, will make the criteria by which the real apartments will be given to those who need them. In this way, the government of the Republic of Serbia has also adopted requirements, and we have a large number of these requirements, by the Association of Military Disabilities and Trade Unions. On the other hand, you know that in the budget, at the republican level, the government has provided funds to solve housing problems, first of all, tenants. Therefore, the charges by opposition parties, above all, of the SRS and the SPS, that this government does not care and that it is inhumane, do not stand. I call upon all MPs to vote, first of all, on this law and on all other laws. It is indeed to expect that the opposition parties, these two I mentioned, will also vote for these laws and thus begin to correct their mistakes from the previous period when instead of, first of all, the tenants and wartime disabled persons were assigned to the activists of their parties and at the republican level, we saw, first of all, the officials of these parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3933	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3934	Dear Mr. President, ladies and Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you just two opening words in the next 10 minutes and draw your attention to three key points about this tax package. The first opening statement concerns what the first speaker, Prof. Dr. Ivkovic, said about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I'd like to say that at no point did I want to offend anyone, nor is it the style of this government, and certainly it's not my style. I just wanted to point out that in the last 10 years we've had, unfortunately, and there's no ideological charge or ironing, with these legally arranged ways of taxing our population, two more forms of taxation that we disagree with, and in this tax system, we want to break up. The first way is to run budget items through special accounts. We've already talked a lot about it at the moment of this budget's acceptance. I'd like to say that we heard from opposition MPs' mouth that they now agree with that commitment. It's gone. We see everything or almost everything on the apart side, and that's how it is today on the income side, and that's how it's supposed to be. One speaker earlier said that the 1994 budget was somewhat more accurate. There were several items where that budget was more precise and that's true. I must tell you that in the longest two months you will receive a new draft bill on the budgetary procedure, because I think that this budget, as it is today, is not precise enough for you, the MPs, and therefore our people, to have sufficient insight and sufficient control over what is done. It is my firm belief, if you vote in a few weeks, that the next budget for 2002 will be voted on by this very budget procedure and by this extra transparency, and I would say honesty. So that's the first sight we've crossed paths with. In our public finances, we will show every intervention from our economy and from our citizens. That's what's good. There is another vision and this morning we have a classic illustration of that other vision, which is that our citizens have received some kind of tax through unforeseen interventions. It's an old foreign savings policy, because they didn't expect it to be returned to them, they believed in state and social banks, and on the other hand, there's a law, and I'm not talking about other aspects -- a loan for the rebirth of Serbia, which has not yet been paid back, and we have accumulated our country's debts. I am pleased to see the lines in front of our banks and it is a great pride that the Republic of Serbia directly through the Republic's budget has provided 56% of all funds for the return of foreign savings, and since, unfortunately, we know that the taxpayers from Montenegro are investing in the federal budget, so almost 2/3 of all funds for the return of foreign savings are provided through our public finances system. That's good, we can all be proud of that. Today is the first war of 110 marks, this year with three more wars we will be able to secure money, and that money will provide 80% of the savings, almost two million people, to get back what was taken from them. That's what's good, because that's when we start returning gradually again, and it's going to be a tough job, trusting our taxpayers with the state and the government, whoever's in power. It's the first thing that's very important. Another thing I'd like to say in this opening statement, and my colleague spoke earlier about how the 1994 budget was, I tried to see when the last debate was being held in this assembly about the tax system on this level. It seems to me, I may be mistaken, what I managed to find this weekend, is that this is the first time in about 10 years that there has been such a debate in all of this, about all of these texts. It seems to me that it's good and it seems fair, but just by showing it in the same place, at the same time, all the interventions our citizens and businesses have, we don't need to make two conclusions. First of all, we've introduced some new taxes. That's not true. I want to be honest to the end. There's one thing that's new, it's boat taxes. It is the only thing, but through the government's amendments after a public debate, we have further reduced them, as one MP said earlier. There's no other new tax. There's nothing new about it, because it's not appropriate at this point to raise our people's grips. I agree and the government agrees that the economic power of our people is not such as to go into further action from our people. The second thing that doesn't stand, I think, is what was heard very often, which is that these changes will lead to chaos, instability and further poverty of our people. We can best defend ourselves with facts. Three weeks ago, when this parliament adopted a new sales tax, and there were changes, many opposition MPs with DOS, said it was a good reform because we closed down a large space for alluding, and someone would say, even for some other forms of negotiation between economic operators and the state. At that point, it was suggested that the inflation effect would be 20%, 15% and 25%. What are we saying? I remind all MPs that we are already living with this new law for two and a half weeks. We're finding out what we're predicting and what I'm suggesting for this speaker -- that the inflation effect should be about 3%. He was divided into two months, and it didn't even happen, and I won't say, because, well, tax reform had a neutral effect, it's because of the poor purchasing power of our population and many commercial houses, because the purchasing power is small, and the effect of tax reforms on traffic is very small, and they decided to take it over to their margin, to share it with producers. So, there's nothing out of that tax shock, as one newspaper said -- so far it's no big deal, and I'd say, this other part of the tax laws will show that there's nothing scary about it, it's just something more modern and something better tax laws, for the benefit of our citizens. That's the first opening words I've ever wanted to say. I'd like to say a few words about three key points to this for the next three minutes. First, it was said that we kept a lot of things. If you take a bit of a broader perspective, what is done in this first step of tax reform, essentially, we kept what was good in reform in the early 1990s, because there were good things. At that moment, the reform allowed Serbia to be on the same level as other Central Eastern European countries. Where it's good and where practice has shown good results, we haven't changed. There are some things like very low rates, such as profit tax with 20%. It's the lowest rate in Europe, Hungary has 18%, but there are other handles there and they can see that they have something more. That's good, given the situation in our economy, 14% of the profits, I remember sometimes it was 30% and 19%, and today it's 14%, and it's on a good level, and that's how we kept it. So there are many things that are good. With these changes, for example, moving to a unique rate of sales tax, and this morning it was again about that word, we took one big step in preparing the value tax and, of course, that's the next step. Unfortunately, in the last nine years, not enough has been done, most likely due to lack of resources and personnel, to prepare the information system that would allow it. Our firm intention is to make it 18 to 24 months, and, you're right, we'll see what the federal and republican governments are up to. There were questions about that. Don't be surprised if the language was all identical, of course we've consulted very deeply and worked very hard with our colleagues at the federal level, so that it would be consistent. Tuniko did not prescribe the other, it was done together and this coordination is both necessary in our system and in our country as it is arranged today. So that's the first thing - we've saved everything we thought was appropriate and it's a good base, with some changes, for the next steps. Another thing I'd like to mention is what we've changed. Basically, we're putting our public finances in order. I'd like to explain it a little bit to you through six short examples. First of all, as regards excise products, many MPs have noticed that we are expecting a larger inflow of funds, and that is true and that is just. That's where you MPs will be able to see if we have any success in fighting the gray economy and organised crime. Do We have success in what we used to do? If we fail in the range of oil and oil derivatives and cigarettes, of course we won't be able to raise that much money, and you have control over what the government is doing, and that's fair enough. That's why we predicted these things, which is why, if you're looking at oil, it's extorted and temporary and, as it was said last week, it's already giving some results. As for cigarettes, you'll see these weeks, we're ready to go to a very determined fight against the gray economy in that area. The other thing is reasonable progressiveness. Some say - you should have caught more than people who have jeeps, who have fairies, why just so much. That's where we have to be reasonable. It's important to keep building villas in our country, because of construction, it's important that people who have money spend, it's good for the economy, but it's also important that we go and someone talked about this this morning, that we start taxing on the economic strength of our businesses. We can't do it overnight. This system needs to be progressive over three or four years to place more and more tax on additional value, corporate profit tax and synthetic income tax on citizens. They're real taxes, but we can't develop them all of a sudden. Finally, the third thing I would like to point out is the incentive to invest in culture, and that is one big first step for culture; 1.5% of total income can be deducted from taxation for those who invest in that sphere and that's important, and 3.5%, that's even bigger, for sport, for spiritual activities and so on. It's good at one point, to maintain the soul of our nation and what's been good for the last ten years. The fourth thing is to defend the most endangered layers. That's where you should put things in the right place. A lot of policies were run through tax policy. If I may put it this way, tax politicians were put and developed and social policy, and there was not enough space on the part of the tax policy to do so. I'd like to point out today that we are this year, and it's a newspaper, and in advance, we're going to pay off those child benefits bonds that are just coming next year. This is thanks to this tax policy, rationalising what our administration is doing, and that is where August comes to give extra funding, not only with children's allowances, which we will regularly pay, rather than two years late, not only through this single social assistance fund, but we will find additional resources to help those who need it and who really need to be helped to compensate for the price hike of some products. Of course it's meant to be. As for moving on to gross wages, and I'd end up with how we're putting things in order, I wouldn't talk about that heavy time bomb in the heart of Serbia again. Some of them talked about it again this morning. We can't sell the future of our fellow citizens anymore, we can't put off any more problems. Some MPs have noticed, and they are right, that moving on to gross wages in some cases will push additional funding from some businesses, but it is much better to put things on the right feet, on the right bases, on a healthy basis, and then, honestly, help and find a solution with these businesses, where there will possibly be some problems, and not distort the whole system and sell the whole generation, two generations of our people just because we have a few problems in some businesses. That's the right way, and that's why we've predicted four billion dinars on the bulk side of our budget, precisely because of these cases, just because of the flag, just because of other such companies, where we're going to need additional funds to get through these changes and this moment. That seems like the right way to go into reform. The third key point I would like to point out -- many MPs, and I agree with them, the government agrees, say the budget and tax laws can't do everything, that if our economy doesn't go better, this will be difficult to implement. They're right. We predicted in this budget and it seems to me to be a realistic forecast, a real growth of 5% of our gross national income. Some say it's too pessimistic, it seems conservative to me, because the budget has to be built on conservative development, but it's obvious that this budget already has a lot to do with the economy. I already mentioned these four billion for those companies that are going to have difficulties. 5.1 billion in the Agrarian budget were foreseen through additional effects of tax reform and, believe me, this weekend we were in the field, the villagers realized that these were very positive steps for them. It's just, it's not enough. If you look at tax laws, you will see that we have not only an incentive for investment ventures, not valves for possible washing of dirty capital, which is either exported from our country one moment, so now it returns in an untaxed way, it is not appropriate, but for those real investors those benefits and incentives are planned in a little longer term. This morning, there was a story again about it, and that is the firm intention of our government, to attract exactly those foreign investors who will be with us in the long run, not those who would come to rob the economy and leave with fast-earned money. It is not our commitment, and that is why in the tax system we have an incentive for those who will be long-term investors and who will share the fate of our economy and our people in the long run. Of course, if you look at the budget and tax laws, they're of course not enough, the situation in the economy is difficult and we all know that, but look what's done in a few weeks. Let me mention, last week we had three good news simultaneously. The first is the opening of the first microcredit bank, though with a small capital of 20 million marks. 30 projects have already been submitted, two have already been approved, and here's a chance for our entrepreneurs to start new jobs, to take advantage of the new environment. The European Development Bank approved 125 million trade marks. Our government, with the National Bank of Yugoslavia and with business banks, has provided an additional 100 million marks for export programmes. This weekend, we've been working on various projects, and we're counting on about 20 to 30 export projects to be approved in the next two or three weeks. It's just the beginning. What does he expect us to do about abroad? We are expected to receive 400 million marks from the European Bank for Development, 400 million stamps from the World Bank's loan, 400 million marks from the International Monetary Fund, and as far as the donor conference is concerned, it is confirmed for June, and we expect an additional 600 million to a billion dollars, i.e. 1.2-2 billion marks. Is that enough for our country? Is that part of the compensation for what was done in our country? In any case, both diplomatically and economically, this government, the Federal Government and the National Bank of Yugoslavia are working together to do everything we can to attract fresh capital and enable our economy to go better. The last thing I would like to mention is that at the last session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a Commission was formed to regulate the problem of internal debt in our economy. We intend to do this regulation for the next six weeks and unblock our economy, because you all come from the surrounding environments, and I know that this indifference, blocked giro-accounts, is a major obstacle to our economy. Now we're going to solve this problem and I hope in six weeks we have positive news on that plan. To conclude, if we look at these tax laws, they are neither brand new nor sufficient to be declared celebrant for the overall tax reform, but they are a very significant step that our country, if you vote for them, can make what is our delay of about 10 years from that tax reform at the beginning of the 90s, we reduce to two or three years; and to close this gap and delay next year and finally enter into action with other countries in our environment, not France, Germany, but with Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary and in two three years we reach not only on the tax system, but also in the economy of their performance. It's dynamics. It won't be easy, but believe me with this budget and these tax laws finally our citizens and our economy have a perspective. There will be a lot of obstacles, but the dynamics are finally on our side, and as far as taxes are concerned, I only have one message for you. This is all in shape - help us help you. This will be done fairly, the state will no longer spend unintendedly and everything that is chosen will be used for the benefit of our citizens and our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3935	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3936	Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to exercise my right under Rule 111. Rules of Procedure, before moving to the vote, I would like to propose to the National Assembly that the vote on this important package of laws be made by a call. Article 111: "At the request of the People's MP, the National Assembly may, without a search, decide to vote with a roll call." A brief explanation: we heard a few discussions, I liked Mr. Srdjan's discussion, who said that this package of DOS laws would introduce us to Europe, so it wouldn't be fair to keep it undetected in history, that the people remember who brought us into Europe, who relieved the citizens, who helped them. Not only does it record history, but we allow our citizens, taxi drivers, neighbors, friends to know who helped them be relieved, and who didn't let them be relieved of their taxes, who wouldn't let them go to Europe. I've debated one more thing last time. I would ask you to show your personal courage, to vote with a roll call, because by looking at the stenograms you can clearly see that each vote has 10 MPs who have not voted and after that when a neighbor, a friend, a cab driver is not satisfied, we call on us to be the ones who didn't vote. I think it's in the interest of the ruling party to vote with a roll call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3937	We'll get to the bottom of this. This is in line with the Rules of Procedure. Let's close the search first, and before we put it to the vote, we'll decide. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3938	An infringement of Article 98 has been made. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly when, President, you allowed the previous minister to speak something that is not the point of the agenda. We're radicals nice, we have democratic manners, we let the minister give the final word, and then we comment. [[Sagar.]] The minister was talking about the Solidarity Building Fund. Minister, where did you read that information? When did you adopt that? Are you having that session...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3939	Do not hesitate, but point out where the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3940	I've stood out where they are, and I'm pointing out where they are. The minister said the government accepted the amendment. When did you get into this at 2400 hours? What is this, the government of vampires? Second, take a look, Minister, and you've completely annulled the law. Article 44
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3941	You enter the controversy, I warn you a second time. You reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please end it or leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3942	I'm just pointing to places where the minister has strayed from the agenda. The man comes out two or three times and benefits, of course, the advantage that government members have and brings up some data that no one knows about in this room. You've also annulled article 44. You don't commit local self-government in any way. Now the minister says it's binding. Oh, what the...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3943	I take your word for it because you're not talking about the Rules of Procedure at all. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3944	I'm just stating what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3945	I'm taking a five-minute break. I'm interrupting my break. I'm concluding a joint principled search. The National Assembly on these draft laws, on which a joint principled search has been carried out, will individually vote in principle, conduct a search in particular and vote in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Tax Tax Act on TERMINATION Your proposal applies to all laws, right? Let's not forget that later. You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the amendments submitted by MPs Petar Jojic to the bill... (In the meantime, MP Seselj is looking for a word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3946	Article 346 has been injured. First you have to vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3947	There's no member in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3948	Well, there is, but you didn't get ahold of that member. First, it must be voted on in the principle of every law before it can be discussed with the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3949	Well, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3950	You've already started the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3951	No, you're texting the Rules of Procedures that don't exist, and then you're rushing like, as the people say, they're collapsing in front of the ore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3952	How, how? What did you say, I didn't hear?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3953	That's what the people say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3954	How am I in a hurry?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3955	They're drawing in front of the ore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3956	You might want to take care of your decent behavior in this congregation. The fact that your party and your President Kostunica are being compromised from day to day by bad political moves and the destruction of the country into an ambience doesn't give you the right to insult the MPs here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3957	I'm truly most sincerely sorry. I really didn't mean to offend you with this. It's an old folk saying when he's in a hurry. There's nothing offensive about it. We've been doing it the exact same way for three months. A united debate is closed, moving to agenda points, reading which amendments have arrived and one law at a time before that is adopted in principle, and then considering amendments, and the other law in principle and so on. There is no news and no new correspondence of the Rules of Procedure. We've been doing it today for two and a half months. There's no need to rush. We're doing exactly what you suggest. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Petar Jojić, Miroljub Veljković, Natasa Jovanovic, Milorad Mirčić, Predrag Canovic, Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Goran Cvetanović, Dragan Tomic, Veroljub Arsic, Stevan Kesejic, Stevo Dragasic, Ljubomir Kragović, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Dragan Colić, Nebojsa Jović, Dusan Ilic, Predrag Bajčetić and Gorica Mojović, Dragoljub Stamenković and Goran Cvetanović, the Legislative Committee and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the opinion of the Government on the amendments submitted. National MP Dusan Ilic, at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, withdrew all amendments he submitted to the bill, and MP Stevan Kesejić, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 48(1). You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee has proposed that, in the framework of the legal and technical regulation, Article 33(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The bill of law states: "share company" replaces the words "action society", which was agreed by the proposing representative at the Committee's session. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. Before that, we will decide on Parliamentarian Dragan Jovanovic's proposal for this law to be made public. I ask the MPs to make this proposal known by their vote. For 64, against 130, with four abstentions, four of the 202 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I put the proposal for a corporate tax bill in principle. For 136, against 63, the abstentions did not vote four, out of 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3958	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 15 reads so that it changes - expenditure on health, cultural, educational, scientific, humanitarian, religious and human environment protection, as well as sports purposes are recognised as expenditure of up to 5% of total income. By amending Article 15, companies investing in those expenditures would recognise a higher expenditure of 5% and thus meet the need in these spheres that are in chronicity, and some basic needs could be met. Now you have a chance to show that you really want to improve in health, cultural, educational and scientific areas. Costs for these purposes would be recognised as expenditure of up to 5% of total income. If you don't adopt the amendment, you'll show by who knows which way to take care of these areas. It's a wide range of your taxes, and there's no area of human activity left to be taxed. As soon as the citizen gets up in the morning, he will pay the water tax he washed, the toothbrush, the suit he put on, the breakfast or the food he ate, then the tax on transportation to work, the car tax he drove away, and at work he pays the income tax he earned. It's your picture and opportunity. You've got it all figured out. If it wasn't for Serbian radicals, Serbian citizens' fraud would be more effective. Your absolute authority, your strictly controlled media, with plenty of lies, yours, and yours alone, DOS's truth, is based on the deception of the people. Be sure the citizens of Serbia understand what DOS is offering them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3959	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? He has the word Dr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3960	This amendment has been well thought out, but I would like to present a few more arguments in addition to its elaborate, which require that the entire article 15 be drawn up. The law reshapes. First, it is necessary to increase the amount from 3 to 5% of the total income that would be exempt from paying taxes if money is directed for strictly purpose purposes. This is where these purpose purposes are listed, but they are not precise. They're only specified in one case, where it's about humanitarian purposes, but not enough. It is said - expenditure for humanitarian purposes shall only be recognised if executed through humanitarian organisations, which are registered for those purposes. That doesn't say anything. There are a whole series of alleged humanitarian organizations, which are falsified and used to launder money, or to abuse money. At the time, Batic's deputy, Aleksandar Stefanovic, had his humanitarian fund. That's one of the reasons why we kicked him out, but as such, Dude is welcome. There's no evidence at all that the money from that fund actually went to humanitarian purposes. So you have to say exactly what humanitarian organisations are to be freed from paying taxes, and no, someone invents a humanitarian organization and moves money there nicely. And what he was doing with the money -- he shared for humanitarian purposes, to whom there's no sign. Then, there's a very serious problem when it comes to sports purposes, it's not a good solution. And that should be specified, is it going to be money for big sports clubs, and we know what crime is like, a football store, money laundering, etc., or is it really going to help a mass physical culture? Well, to be precise - for building sports playgrounds in schoolyards, gyms, for building other facilities. This makes sense if sports facilities are financed, not if they're given to those we know in advance that they very, very often speculate money and abuse that money. Obviously, the minister does not care to specify these things, but wants it to stay this way in as broad a formulation as possible, in order for abuses to be much greater than it could be in a social environment like ours, where economic crisis and social misery reign. Then, for educational purposes, you have to specify -- what are educational purposes, what does that mean -- educational separation? And somebody says, "I'm giving for education," and where you educate what you're funding -- at home, there's an evening school. A voice from the O.R.: Gashi controls it. Well, the minister, for him, and the medical consulate, which was subjected to by the Serbian government, has concluded that he is an alcoholic reconvaliscent and that he is unable to perform the job of the minister of education, is determined for Gasa Knezevic, and do not mention him now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3961	Mr. Seselj, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3962	You warn those who earn me, I did not mention Gaš Knezevic, but I was called on behalf of Gaše Knezevic. So a whole series of questions are being opened to this member of the law, and the government hasn't thought about it. You see, why would a membership chamber, alliances and associations be released in the first place, and not political organisations? It's a private matter for everyone to join somewhere and to pay their membership fee. Why would that be the basis for tax exemption? This government, which skins people off their backs, simply gives them the opportunity to join wherever they want and be freed for that amount. And he's going to introduce large amounts of membership money somewhere. It's not a problem where there's a symbolic amount for membership fees, but where, like the Rotara Club, there's a bigger amount, a percentage of the profits, or a percentage of the total turnover. Are they going to finance the Masonic Lodges and Rotaries - Clubs now? Just laugh, it's very serious. Federal Interior Minister Zoran Zivkovic publicly admitted to being a member of the Rotari club. They're not naive things. So this member requires a more thorough designation. We, the Serbian Radicals, are in favour of also being freed from taxes for religious purposes, to this amount, but to say precisely what religious needs are, so to say -- for the Serbian Orthodox Church, who is Orthodox, for the Roman Catholic Church, for the Islamic religious community, for the Jewish religious community, for the Protestant churches, and to say who they are. Here you will consider the separation of religious sects, the social religious sects. That's not naive either. That's an additional reason to take care of tax exemptions, since you've taxed the poor this time. When you tax those of whom you have something to tax, you don't exaggerate your freedoms. There are many things for which taxpayers should be freed, but then it should be specified - for mass physical culture, for registered religious communities, traditional churches, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3963	Mr. Seselj, I must warn you during your time. Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He's not answering. ). If not, I'll put this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to declare themselves by voting on the amendment of MP Dragan Colic. For 56, against 93, one abstained, did not vote 25, a total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Unity Party has submitted an amendment - in Article 15(1) of the word "up to 3%" to replace the words "up to 5%", to free economic operators for the following purposes - for sport, for humanitarian, religious, for the protection of the human environment, and other humanitarian actions. We think 3% is not enough for companies to help these segments, given that production has dropped in all businesses. If we remind ourselves that we have abolished the Ministry of Sports and that the sport is very little, then we should have created certain conditions for those companies that want to help sport and free them, that instead of 3%, it would be 5% for sport. The Serbian Unity Party has one humanitarian organisation - the Third Child Fund, where we help all families who have three and more children, but for known reasons, since production has dropped and traffic has fallen to all those businesses that have helped this organization so far, we suggest that instead of 3% increase to 5%, to free businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3965	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, then I would like to put the amendment tabled by MP Dragan Markovic. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this amendment by voting. For 54, against 98, there were no abstentions, no vote of 25, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. National MPs Predrag Bajčetic and Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted the 15th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment has been submitted to the article. 15. Company profit tax law. Article 15 reads: "Employments for health, cultural, educational, scientific, humanitarian, religious, human environment protection and sports purposes are recognised as expenditure up to 3% of total income". The amendment in Article 15(1) changes the amount of 3% to 5% of the total income, in order to stimulate the separation for these purposes. In addition to this amendment relating to the first position, the amendment has been extended, unlike other MPs, and Article 6. The law gives - advertising expenditures, propaganda, the team is recognised as expenditure up to 3% of total income. There is a change in the position of Article 15. Delete, and add a new text, item 6: "Popaganda and Advertising Issues are recognised as expenditure of up to 5% of total income". But a new 7th position is added, which reads: "reports for the team are recognised as expenditure of 1% to total income". For what? It's the same amount, but we believe that as far as propaganda and advertising are concerned, we need to increase that percentage, or separation, but in order to reduce abuse based on the team, from the proposed 3%, we go to 1%. So, first of all, advertising and propaganda should be viewed as advertising in electronic and printed media, participation in fairs, etc. This should be stimulated, while gifts and business lunches are not included, so in the first case, the proposed amount should be increased and the second one reduced to 1%.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3967	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic. For 50, against 92, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken 31, a total of 173 people's workers were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 16 by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3968	Dear People's MPs, I'm really impressed. In addition to the many amendments the opposition has tabled at this and all previous sessions, let's make it 500, twice DOS deputies have come forward with the amendments. It's these two ladies and the government, and all the assembly committees have accepted them. Where they found these pearls, these economic experts, and we've killed ourselves all this way, working and no amendment to pass. Let me move on to the explanation of my amendment. One of my predecessors, DOS MPs, said he did not understand how the opposition criticised the bill's proposals in principle and made such amendments. He called it obstruction. We are criticising the bill in principle because this tax law is now bad, and we are making amendments to fix these tax laws. Be assured, as far as we are concerned, Serbian radicals, that any good proposal from the government and the MPs will be supported. Here's an example: in this proposed package of tax laws, which is bad, this bill is the best, Mr. Minister, or better say - he's the only one who can get a transitional assessment of us Serbian radicals. It, for the sake of truth, contains modern and simple solutions, which makes it very acceptable for economic operators. On the side of the fact, pointed out by Mr Toma Nikolic and Mr Vucurovic, which is an economy in such a state that the budget will have no effect on this profit tax. The truth is, the bill is not bad. Despite the good solutions, there are two shortcomings in it, which are: one, it is very restrictive in showing recognition of the costs in the business business, and it therefore slows down and destimulates investment in the economy. You just said something else. However, there is no evidence in the draft of other tax laws to stimulate any investment in the Serbian economy. Two, this bill is completely detimulative for ino-investment. The minister was trying to convince us today and the other day, telling us about some dirty money laundering, etc. We need to attract capital to fiscal policy measures and other measures of the state administration. If we didn't tax that dirty capital when it was removed from this country, why are we taxing it now if it needs to come in? You lived in Western Europe, you know what Austria has done in the past 15 years. All the dirty capital, especially from Eastern Europe, has entered Austria in the last 10 years, so now they wash their hands, return normally, but the Austrian state and the Austrian people have had great effects on that. What's Switzerland been doing for 150 or 200 years? I think it's one demagogue thesis you brought here, my God, to prevent any capital that's been removed from this country from returning to this country by accident. I guess we should do exactly the opposite. On Article 16 of paragraph 5 of this proposal, I have submitted an amendment, and I propose that item 5 be amended and that it reads: "The burden of expenditure in the tax balance is recognised the actual costs of the investment made in the current year and the amount reserved in the following year". The importance of investment in economics for this country is immeasurable. At this point, only investments can trigger Serbia's economy and fill, as much as possible, this wasteful budget and raise population standards. What's that proposing that he's afraid of? That, if the amount of investment envisaged in the following year is reserved, it will not be transferred indefinitely over another year. There's a very simple solution. One clause can be installed in that member to reserve the amount of investment in the following year and spend it in that year. And let me finish. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, we will not fill the budget by shaking the pockets of the population. In those pockets, it must be clear to both the minister and you MPs of the DOS, there is no money, but we can only charge the budget if we start the business machine of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3969	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment of MP Veljkovic to the vote. For 52, against 97, there were no abstentions, no vote of 23, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 90, there were no abstentions, no 34 votes, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members Dragan Markovic and Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 39 of the second amendment in the same text. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? He has the word Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3970	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in article 39, I asked that the company's profit tax be paid at 15%. This law provides for 20%. The rate used to vary from 15% to 25%. However, in light of all the tax regulations that this assembly has brought, as well as the burdens on businesses to comply with such tax rules, I believe that it is necessary to reduce the corporate tax to 15% and for another reason, which is that some deputies and ministerial assistants are already announcing a new accounting law where so-called fictitious costs will not be possible to display and thus reduce the profits of the company. We all know what our economy is like, and I think that this will help both the economy and the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3971	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3972	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in Article 39, the 2nd item of 20% should be replaced by 15%. We feel that we need to cut the tax from 20% to 15%, given that we are in a very difficult year. This way they would stimulate private entrepreneurs to employ a little more labour force. If we remind ourselves that in six months, there will be privatisation and, as the minister told us, that every factory will have a surplus workforce and that these people will lose their jobs, in this way, at a lower rate of taxes for private entrepreneurs, there is a possibility that they can receive extra labour from state-owned enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3973	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put to the vote the amendments of the MPs Veroljub Arsic and Dragan Markovic. For 53, against 98, there were no abstentions, no 26 votes, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Ljubomir Kragovic and Petar Jojic submitted their second amendment to article 39. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a corporate tax law points to another fact that the MPs of the SRS have been presenting for the assembly speaker since the day of adoption of the budget for this year. In a united debate, we really had very little time, only 10 minutes, to talk about seven points of the agenda, i.e. Proposed tax laws. However, it is evident that this latest wave of tax reforms aims only to completely sink a fragile and weak economy in our country. The fact is, and this is what Minister Bozidar Djelic said today, that the government expects to grow 5% of the social product this year. Prime Minister Djindjic said he is optimistic and expects 10%, which is beyond any reality, because if you look at all the major production capacities, all the factories in our country, starting with the flag in Kragujevac where I live, through all the other major industrial complexes, you will clearly see that since the DOS government has taken the helm into its own hands, nothing produces or very little, and the question is what will happen to the huge accumulated surplus workers, without being able to find solutions and new programmes for these companies. Indeed, my manner is not that, as an opposition MP, I praise what the Government is proposing, and I see nothing but clearly defined items in the bill, or each member individually, which is what should be commended here. This is for the simple reason that this law only fits into part of your pre-election promises, but not for the citizens of Serbia, who will not benefit from it, but for those who helped you to come to power, above all the countries of the European Union and the world financial institutions, by whose orders and by which you agree these tax rates and the whole package of laws. After all, the budget itself is so projected. The point of reality in this crippled DOS government is completely absent for a simple reason... I don't know why you yell, it's nothing offensive. You know, if you say -- crippled, then I don't think it's possible in the right light to see the situation in our country, not with the Secretary of State, not with the Prime Minister, not with the Vice President, but through the fact that it has to be coordinated by calling for what's going on in the countries around it. And don't talk about the fact that they're so-called. International financial institutions, the IMF and the World Bank, in an experiment in Latin American countries, have shown what their goal is and that this same recipe will be applied here. It's simply a large grinding machine, in which they want to draw the small and weak, but those to whom they are thus represented by the current power. And it's the government in this country that's going to say that everything here is gone, that we don't have any resources, that everything has been destroyed through the unsuspected economy and through the sale, why they're going to make the position of employees, and those who need to find a solution in these economic complexes, even harder. You would have to manage what has been said by us Serbian radicals, so that you can tax as much as any economic operator or citizen can make real income, income, in the current year. It's obviously not your goal. You have a budget projection drawn up, you have the amount of funds you-you have to move, and to that end, an amendment to Article 39(2) has been tabled. The bill to reduce the tax rate on the company's profits from your projected 20%, even though you are referring to European Union countries, to countries in the environment. We heard an example of Hungary just now, that it's lower, only 18%, and that's not enough, and it's going to be a disaster for our economy. If you want to stimulate our development, if you want to think about it, we only have to rely on our own resources... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... on that mind, on that knowledge and on those workers who want to work, but not by being in a subordinate position, but that in this country all major industrial complexes have an equal partnership and a strategic partner to the extent that we have to have it, and some of what you intend and the EPS, and the flag and all the other industrial complexes and all that you can, to sell for what it is. If you're already with great drawbacks... (President: Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... This law in general, in principle we actually adopted half an hour ago, would be more than necessary for you to accept this amendment and for the company's profit tax rate to decrease to 10%, in order for our economy to be stimulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3975	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 39. I proposed amendments to the corporate tax bill as much as the previous MP said, to reduce the corporate tax rate from 20% to 10%. Why? Social Circumstances have changed. The legislator, although retaining an existing solution, should have been aware of the fact that circumstances have changed in the meantime and that the economy is in a very difficult position. Only these 10% reductions would allow, in this poor business of many and many businesses, to encourage the production process, which is the only factor in our society to still improve production, develop economy, and on the other hand, to provide funding for budget filling. That is why I am staying with this amendment and I propose to the MPs that they adopt it. This shouldn't be a tax government, not a people's government. Let the MPs think, because it is time for certain things to be corrected and must go in the direction of improving the working conditions, the economy, which is and how valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3977	Ambassador Kragovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this proposal for a corporate tax law, in Article 39 of the corporate tax rate is 20%. I have submitted to the amendment that this corporate profit tax rate is reduced to 10%. The idea was for this relief to be introduced for one reason, so that the economic situation in the economy would improve. This reduction in tax rates would create conditions for development, both small and medium-sized enterprises and for the employment of workers in larger enterprises. The 20% tax liability will only make it difficult and will lead to many businesses not being able to pay this tax. By reducing this tax, it would be a measure of easing the business's obligations. We know that the economy is the momentum that needs to trigger the entire economic situation in our country. On the other hand, by hiring new workers and taxes, normally on personal income, much more would happen than with this 20% corporate income tax. Therefore, I ask you to accept this proposed amendment and vote that the corporate tax rate is 10%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3979	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting amendments to the MPs of Natasa Jovanovic, Ljubomir Kragovic and Petar Jojic to the vote. For 58, there were no abstentions against 111, there was no 13 vote, a total of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 39, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevo Dragisic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is the promoter here? No, it's not. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting MP Dragisic's amendment to the vote. For 58, against 94, there were no abstentions, no 27 votes, a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word has an MP, Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to Article 43. It is an accelerated depreciation, which the obligor has in relation to fixed funds for: 1) prevention of air, water and land pollution, noise mitigation, energy savings, deforestation, collection and use of waste as industrial raw materials or energy fuels; 2) scientific research; 3) training and training of personnel. This amendment in Article 43 adds a new point of 4 which reads as "Health and Social Protection Equipment". So it's about making it possible to get the most modern medical care equipment, at the very least. You yourself know the conditions and conditions of our medical appliances. In any case, it is necessary to provide, insert, that these apparatus, which are used by healthcare users, are subject to this depreciation. And you know it's a lot of expensive machines and that, starting with the ECG apparatus, the X-ray apparatus, they're in really bad shape. For example, a scanner in Leskovac for two years was not operational at all until about 70,000 marks were found to get a lamp, so it was almost back on track. I'm going to have to tell you that for the mandatory service of one scanner, it's a monthly withdrawal of 30,000 dinars. That's a lot of money. Although we also consider that private doctoral practice, or home doctor, should be stimulated, it should be possible for these healthcare professionals to obtain as high-quality appliances as possible, thus allowing healthcare users to receive cheaper and better treatment. On this occasion, I appeal to the MPs, first of all, to the MPs of the DOS, to adopt this amendment, because there are a lot of health workers. All I know is that there are six doctors in the Democratic Party of Serbia. They themselves know the importance of the apparatus in our patients' health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3981	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 59, against 100, there were no abstentions, not 22, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic to Article 44. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. I find that the amendment has been withdrawn. Member of the 44th position of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3982	Honorable Members of the People's Parliament, Article 44. The company profit tax law is interesting because it specifically regulates the matter of tax exemptions. What is important for the matter of tax exemptions in all laws is that the legislator takes particular care of the areas, i.e. the duties to be given to the taxpayers and takes care of how categories of individual taxpayers do not suffer great damage. What is a fact, and this law is definitely shown, because the previous law at least cited much better solutions in this part, and as far as I know, such solutions exist in all European legislation, it is taking account of newly established and newly created enterprises. This is particularly about companies in the area of production, in the area of agriculture and these small enterprises, enterprises, in the area of provision of services. The legislator deleted the point from the law with his proposal, because he believes that the newly created company, which has begun to deal with production, has no need to be freed. An earlier legal solution was for three years. I thought and suggested it was good to be tax-free, but for one year and, in particular, to be related to the area of production, i.e. the area of small enterprises. We've had and we've always had a story in the media that we're going to support production, that we're going to support small and medium-sized enterprises. It is definitely clear to this member of the law that you are not supported. The only right acquired by the newly established company to have a tax relief in the first year of business was clearly erased, with only one reason and an explanation given to me by the Finance Committee - that there is no reason for this company to be released. Why am I saying this? I speak for a simple reason that at a time when it starts to invest, create, organise, design a process of production, create a particular type of product or deal with it or work, extremely high and significant funds are invested, starting from lending to individual banks and later the obligation to return loans to banks and banking organisations in some period. Obviously, the legislator does not intend to support new businesses, especially in the fields of production, agriculture and services, with its legal solution. We have offered at one of the next points and a bill from the area, where there is a clear need to support small and medium-sized enterprises. These legal solutions offered by the promoter are certainly not good in this area and I don't think they bring anything good to producers or people who provide services, and in particular they will have problems, because almost everyone in this country doesn't have big cash to create businesses, but they have to sell property or take loans from banks, and these loans are not cheap. So they won't have the breath to maintain the level of production and their desire to deal with certain actions. I am sorry that the Government and the Finance Committee had no understanding of this proposal, and not only my own-man, more associations and citizens asked me to propose such an amendment. In doing so, I think MPs in the National Assembly should hear about this amendment and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3983	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 110, there were no abstentions, there was no 16 vote, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 44 by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a company's profit bill to article 44, which regulates the issue of tax exemption, so another point 4 will be added after point 3, which would read: "A newly established company for two years from the day of its establishment". For what? Because I consider new start-ups to be too much of an imposition if it is taken into account what other obligations they have, that when registering they already have to provide a starting bet, and we know that this founding stake is about five thousand dollars in dinar equivalent, that they have to get basic assets and equipment, that they have to hire workers, and we know what contributions are now made to each employee. It will probably also be burdened with loans, and the current credit policy of banks is extremely unfavourable for credit users. If we want to help businesses, then we need to help them at the very beginning, then when they're set up and when they start working. Then when they get on their feet, it's easy to take from their profit tax, but at the moment of establishment, no matter what activity they're dealing with, they need help. Therefore, the state should have little hearing for those who opt for this type of establishment of new companies. However, I see that there are certain reliefs in the law itself, but when it comes to the establishment of business units, in areas that are underdeveloped. There is no reason to make a very big difference, the whole of Serbia is undeveloped in this sense. And if it should be given some relief to start-ups, then it should be whether in areas that are underdeveloped or in some other areas that are allegedly developed. Given the situation in the country itself, believe me, intimidated by these tax laws, citizens are thinking this way -- I'm not even going to start this year, I'm going to wait for the next one, so I'm going to see what I'm going to do. So there's one uncertainty, there's one fear. If it exists in our house, if citizens as individuals have such a feeling of discomfort, insecurity and fear, then what it's like for those who need to start new businesses. They probably won't decide for a while to go into that kind of business either, and we'll all suffer from it, or the state itself, and the budget won't be able to fill. It takes them two years to get on their feet, to start doing it, and then in the IRS, and in the budget, I'm a cashier by myself. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3985	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3986	On the occasion of this amendment, submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, it is important to highlight another important moment. The creators of this bill did not take account, in tax exemptions, of making it easier for companies with a large number of employees and that they are ahead of companies with a small number of employees. As much as any company has unemployed workers, it pays the same income tax, with any of these benefits that are equally applied to everyone. Here, it would be very wise for companies with more workers to be freed at a higher percentage of the profit tax, such as a company that has 1,000 workers, to get rid of 50% of profit taxes and more than that. Companies that only have a few workers not to be exempt from profit taxes, to encourage employment. That anyone who owns the company has that factor in mind, that he takes care if he doesn't want to pay some excessive amount to the state, then increase the number of jobs. The state is benefiting again - for each employee, or for every salary, a tax is paid to the state. The company, which has a hundred, or a thousand or ten thousand employees, pays the highest amount to the state through profit tax. The company that is on the minimum number of employees, there does not pay much to the state, there is a minimum wage and therefore there should not be any other benefits in terms of profit tax. I see Minister Djelic, in this regard, did not actually get into trouble and did not seek a variant that would be appropriate to our economic and social conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3987	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I am putting the amendment of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to the vote. For 54, against 106, one was abstentioned, did not vote 16 and a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We have a proposal to add a new member of 44a, submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic, after article 44a. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3988	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to add a new member of 44a after Article 44a with the following text: "The payment of corporate income tax is released newly established legal person for the first three years of the day of enrolment in the register, except for newly established legal entities registered through acts in the single classification of activity in the area of 07 - trade and in the area of 11 - financial, technical and business services - banking, group 1101, and the insurance of property and persons". I therefore propose this amendment to free a newly established legal person from the field of production from paying a profit tax for the first three years of his business, a newly established legal person who performs activity in undeveloped areas and in a free zone. This is particularly necessary in order to get as many municipalities out of the undeveloped circles as possible, and I think this will speed up the development of production in undeveloped areas. So, the first and only condition for the exemption from profit tax is that this newly established legal person, works on the territory of an underdeveloped area, not to be registered there, but to be active in another area; therefore, that the actual place of establishment is in that area. Secondly, in my explanation, I can say that I do not consider a newly established legal person to be a legal person created by a merger or a division of an existing facility, or a taxpayer, or a status change, but rather a truly newly established legal person. The government has been telling us that so far there have been many abuses over that tax exemption. There are tax authorities, competent inspection services that can at any time determine whether someone has misused that tax exemption. Secondly, could it be provided in the law that, if a newly established legal entity terminates its business in the first three years of tax exemption, and that, after the end of the three years of tax exemption, the tax authority may lose the right to tax exemption, so that the tax authority may charge the tax on profits, revolving the tax and applying the price rates to a small extent, using data issued by the Republic's authority in charge of statistics matters. I think this amendment should be accepted precisely for the reasons that I have cited, and above all, the development of production and exit of underdeveloped areas from a circle of underdeveloped ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3989	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I am putting MP Jovic's amendment to the vote. For 55, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 17, and a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 45 by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3990	Article 45 refers to the company concession, and in the first position, the legislator says that "in the case of concession investment, a concession firm, or a concessionaire who has a registered company to carry out a labour concession, tax payments on profits made on the basis of concession incomes for up to five years are free". In Article 4(4), "a concessionaire which, in accordance with the law governing concessions, is not obliged to establish a concession firm, in order to exercise the right to exempt from profit tax, shall, in particular, account and determine the profit obtained on the basis of the revenue from the concession case under the law". My amendment refers to the erasure of attitude 5, meaning the position arising from Article 4, that "the Minister of Finance and Economy is closer to regulating the way in which the concessionaires' income and expenditure are shown in Article 4's position". So, the minister will, on his own, determine, according to one of his arches, when taxes will be paid, when they will be released from paying the profit tax, leaving the minister enough space for various malversions, illegal actions. That is why I believe that this member should be completely deleted, because the minister cannot have the autonomous right to regulate his own way of showing income and expenditure. It's something that needs to be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3991	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment comes from the fact that in every modern legal order, taxes can only be prescribed by law and by any other legal act. Tax legislation must be simple, easy to understand, easy to understand and easy to apply. Tax legislation does not suffer any complicated forms and does not suffer the broad powers that the finance minister would have under this bill. It is obvious that the finance minister deliberately leaves to himself in article 45 practically free hands in the area where he is most interested, in the area of concessions. Why? The question alone raises doubts about his potential good intentions, and there is only one way for the minister to convince us that there is no bad intentions, it is to accept this amendment and to delete this power of the minister. We have seen in other legal projects that we have discussed together with this, that the minister gives himself too much freedom, and in publishing books he will determine what is worth for science and culture. We have seen that the minister gives himself great freedom where he or she can personally be financially interested, him or the government, and that the government gives such freedom to a minister where she is ideologically interested. She doesn't need a censorship system, because he's extremely unpopular, and what sometimes can simply be taxed to destroy anything that is ideologically not similar. In this case, the minister has the full freedom to fully destimulate a concessionaire who is not in his best interest by putting into him impermeable barriers or by opening up to a concessionary who is broadly willing to open up opportunities to which neither the public nor parliament will be directed. That's why a law like this has to delete the minister's overly comfortable authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3993	If no one answers the word anymore, I am putting the amendment of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to the vote. For 59, against 103, two abstentions, there were no 16 votes, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Predrag Canovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3994	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted as a member of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group concerns tax relief in the said proposal for a corporate tax law. In the Serbian Unity, we agree and believe that Article 47 of the bill should add a new position 1 which reads: "A newly established legal person for the first three years of his entry into the register is exempt from paying corporate tax, except for newly established legal entities in the area of trade, financial services, banking and insurance of assets and persons". So, we believe that in order to create new private companies, it is necessary to free them from profit taxes over a certain period of time, and in our opinion, the tayoptimal time period is three years, because it is some period during which these companies could stabilise, get on their feet and normally start to function. Of course, this exempts all newly formed companies that work at the start are profitable. We believe that this amendment should be accepted, a team before this relief, or loan, has already been provided for by Article 42(1) of the applicable Company Tax Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3995	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting MP Canovic's amendment to the vote. For 54, against 100, two abstentions, there was no vote of 24, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th position of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party has also submitted an amendment to Article 47(1), asking that the word "two years" be replaced by "five years". Why? For the very simple reason that there are many ends in Serbia that are underdeveloped or underdeveloped at all, and we believe that all taxpayers who invest in these areas should be exempt from the profit tax over a long period of time, in order for Serbia to be equally developed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3997	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting Mr Petrovic's amendment to the vote. For 55, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 19, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 48th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3998	This part of the Tax Credit-Defining Act is well-conceived, but as I said in my previous presentation, the huge flaw in this bill is that it is not sufficiently stimulating from the point of view of investment investment in the economy. We all agree that the government in this tax package has defined itself to destimulate consumption, which, in my opinion, is a huge mistake. For a period of my life, I lived in the United States. In many countries, the United States, for example in the state of Illinois, where they have a completely different approach to covering fiscal policy, all possible state instruments are being accelerated by consumption. Listen carefully, learn something, you MPs of the DOS. For example, the total amount of representation, total investment investments, investment maintenance, and even some banal items are recognised by economic operators. The owner of a company to buy 500 suits or 500 pairs of shoes, is recognised as a cost. Taxi ride, bought a holiday home, bought this boat, etc. It's a smart policy, respected MPs from the DOS parliamentary group. Why smart? Because by speeding up consumption, two things are achieved. A momentum is given to the machine and the state budget is filled through an increased inflow of sales taxes. Money in the budget, gentlemen and my ladies, from e.g. profit tax and sales tax, they're no different. They're not these from the tax on yellow, and let's say, these from sales taxes, lila paint so you can tell them apart. Money is money. That's where the state, so it stimulates businesses not to show profits and pay taxes on that basis. She's forcing them to get spent. Think logically, though I know that the logic of DOS MPs is not a strong party, but if a business operator in Serbia at the end of the business year shows profit in the final account, for example, 10 million dinars and according to this bill should pay the state two million dinars of profit tax, each businessman is thinking - better not to pay a profit tax than all 10 million to spend, to buy something. He'll pay again through sales tax, etc. Or, for example, a man buys a yacht that is taxed with 20% sales tax, em on a yacht you've introduced these new taxes unconstitutionally, so the state doesn't lose anything in terms of tax revenues, but the state and the economy get a terrible momentum, because someone can spend all those basic assets. That means a man will spend 10 million more, buy new machines, invest in investments than give the state two million dinars. That's one logic that doesn't exist in this whole set of tax laws. Here we have another logic, to destimulate consumption. By destimulating consumption, we also destimulate business activities in this country. It's very simple, in that sense, to think that taxpayers are being stimulated not to pay this tax. As our people say, we must make our pledges not to pay on the bridge, but to kill two birds with one stone. To speed up production and fill the budget. In that sense, I suggested that investment in fixed assets, so in this article of the law, tax is reduced by not 10, as in the bill, if it can't be 100%, it's at least 50%.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u3999	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 107, the abstentions were not voted 11th out of the 174-nation MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 1st amendment was submitted to article 48 by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 106, the abstentions did not vote14, out of 173 international MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 48, the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic, and he withdrew this amendment. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that a brief meeting will be held at the break of this session in the I-story. I call on the presidents of the parliamentary groups, the vice-presidents of the Assembly and the MPs from Kosovo and Metohija to attend him. The outcome of that meeting you'll be familiar with. Before we take a break in today's session, I'd just like to say that I really hope that you're sharing my confidence that today's session was decorated with one pleasant atmosphere, that in peace and tolerance, we've heard each other's statements and arguments. (Glass: There's no Batic. ) Perhaps it is because of Batic, and I hope that we will continue with such work. We'll continue at 3:30. [[Continuing after the break.]] I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I realize we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a break of 10 minutes. [[Continuing after the break.]] I figure we've got a quorum, so we can keep working. Before I give my word to the Rules of Procedure, let me read you a note. The fifth session of the Education Committee, scheduled for April 18th 2001, will take place on Monday, April 23rd at the 48th on the second floor, starting at 1300 hours. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4001	Brothers and sisters, Christus rises. (Louds from the O.R., True Resurrection.) ) Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... Mr. President, I suggest you read again Mr. Mitic's letter, a teacher from Leban, which you read a few days ago, and I took as the voice of the people. In that letter, it reminds us that we must respect our role as MPs. Today we had no quorum at the beginning of the afternoon work. I don't think that's right, I think MPs who avoid their obligation are breaking, not only the dignity of this home, the National Assembly, as the highest state body of Serbia, but the dignity of all citizens of Serbia. DOS MPs have 176 MPs in this assembly with the will of the people. The will of the people should be respected. Thanks to the opposition, we work and we have a quorum. Then when we have it. I don't think that's right, and I think, gentlemen of the DOS, that you have failed the trust of the people he gave you in the election on 23 December 2000. If you have failed that trust, and it is, then I suggest since you have a majority, you have your presidents, call new elections, let's all go to elections on our own and see whose strength is in this House. This kind of behavior really isn't right and it's really not good for the opposition to keep the quorum of this home. Ladies and gentlemen, it really isn't right and Mr. Mitic of Lebanon is right. A lot of people come here just to get their journals and go home. Over half of the DOS MPs are not in the Assembly and it is almost a regular phenomenon. It's not right, mind this home, protect the reputation of this home and preserve the dignity of your voters and all citizens of Serbia. Thank you for your understanding and for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4002	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4003	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in politics everything is allowed, and among other things, it is allowed to give advice to representatives of the opposition representatives of the position. However, politics is not allowed to distort reality. It is often called the DOS parliamentary group because of the fact that there are 176 MPs in this House, and in terms of the lack of quorum or dysfunctional work of this assembly. Whether it's about Mr Mitic from Lebanon or any other citizen of this society, I think it's incorrect to underline the DOS, like that force in Serbia's political life, which does not match the look it formally advocates. We do not invite MPs of the Republic Assembly to go to Pristina for a session of the Republic Parliament, because we know that such a thing is not possible. We are making sure that at all times we are politically responsible for the citizens of Serbia and that we can respond at any time to those political views that we formally advocate. At no point was it a quorum in this assembly, when it came to the election of a law. You of the opposition have the right to take out the cards in the numbering situations, but I remind you, let's say, at that assembly session you left, because you weren't working after midnight, even though it was clear that we were questioning the functioning of local self-government by this relationship to parliament. We can also count ourselves at this point, at any point at which someone asks through the rights arising from the Rules of Procedure such a procedure. The Republic Assembly is working, and it works thanks to the work and engagement of DOS MPs who have been sitting patiently here for days, listening to amendments proposed by the opposition, who often cannot be justified and thus de facto deny what is criticism, and what you, Mr Pelevic, have now said here. If you are already talking about Mr Mitic, quote him correctly and recognize us, the MPs of DOS, in the criticism he mentioned in his public opinion. We're not here for pay. The DOS parliamentary group has introduced a new rule of conduct, and among other things it has limited the number of people who have the right to permanent employment in the Republic Parliament. We're not here because of the diaries, we don't stand out in it, we're a parliamentary group that's brought savings into public life, political life, and that's how we're going to behave in the future. Arguably state what decision depended on the DOS parliamentary group, and I will agree with the moral pucks that you share in front of the Soviet Parliament group DOS. Everything else is political demagogy and it is finally part of politics, but it is not part of a policy that is a policy for the benefit of the citizens of this society. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4004	There's no replica on the replica. (From the O.R.: Rules of Procedure. There's no replica on the replica. Please, we had Mr. Pelevic's announcement to the Rules of Procedure, don't throw it away - according to the Rules of Procedure, we had a replica of Mr. Jovanovic, and I didn't see what I could answer about the Rules of Procedure. There's no replica on the replica. The only way you can get back to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4005	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, article 80. The Rules of Procedure speak of quorum, I didn't understand Mr. Jovanovic, but he probably didn't understand what he was saying either. We've never left the assembly session and we've always put our cards in and we act here the way our voters expect us to. Article 80. The Rules of Procedure speak of the Assembly working with the quorum. I continue to argue that half of the DOS MPs, around half of them, are not regularly in our assembly sessions, and I guess citizens across Serbia see it as well. So, Mr. Jovanovic, you're really wrong, we've always been constructive, we're acting by the rules, by the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, and I have no intention of giving any one of my lessons. I just want to say that the Soviet Union is fulfilling everything our voters expect from our parliamentary group, which is not the case with DOS. Although I don't understand why it's even more called the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, since you have power at all levels. Therefore, Article 80. The Rules of Procedure are very clear - either to be here, except for those who are justly absent, or to return their mandates, so let the people choose some better MPs than all of us together. I didn't rule out the Soviet Parliament's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4006	If it is an objection to the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to answer that this congregation has not worked at any time without the necessary quorum. There was a delay in the beginning, but without the quorum it didn't work. Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I assumed that you, as chairman, would determine the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is, the abuse of the parliamentary right of the head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Professor. Pelevic. (Borislav Pelevic: I am not the boss.) Then you abused the pay phone. As a member of the DOS, I felt offended by Mr Pelevic, the MPs, and thank God that the viewers who were watching this assembly could see who was telling them this. It's an insult, because I can't accept it, and I don't know about the other 176 MPs, everyone should come out here, let Mr. Pelevic give me moral sermons why I'm here and why I'm sitting in this assembly. I think it is well known, enough of this hypocrisy, demagogy, because it is a disgrace to this Parliament. Everyone knows who's been doing what in this country for the past ten years, and if there's talk of diaries, many of us in this congregation have been having a hard time living, supporting their families, not like you, Mr. Pelevic. First, go out and explain how you've managed to be who you are in these few years and how you don't need a paycheck or a living diary? In what ways, by which means, that school can make so much money in this society, when the people have nothing to survive, with five marks, these ten years? How do big businesses at the expense of a society that's failing? (President: I ask you to talk about the Rules of Procedure, Mr Markovic. Don't say that to any DOS MPs anymore for this pay phone. Explain who you are, what you have acquired in these ten years, and don't give me any more moral sermons here, about the duties of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4008	You have the right to reply, but in the follow-up session there was no MP who did not go out to object to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, without having done so himself, from first to last. That's absolutely true. I'm really asking you to focus your energy at noon lunch and break on the legal proposals, not on what you've been doing since this session started. After this replica, please stop the inter-party debate. There's a TV show, there's a duel show, there's a tribune in the interior and in Belgrade, and we leave those things there, and here we do what we're chosen to do and what we should do. That applies to everything. Here you go, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4009	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to answer questions like this that are not really moral, which my predecessor has asked. Talking about morality is really difficult, especially when it corresponds to a man who changed several parties during his being in the Serbian Parliament. But his moral character is his moral problem. I just want to say to the citizens of Serbia, since I was truly called out of the lowest urge of the gentleman mentioned, that I was never a businessman or a businessman, nor a great fortune, and I have lived these years by sharing the fate of my people. In one part of these ten years, and fighting, with a rifle in hand, for the freedom of the Serbian people and Serbian territories. In that war, I was badly wounded. Sir, you can check that out. I don't have any great wealth. I got it all off my ten fingers. Otherwise, my biggest salary is a large salary for Yugoslav conditions, which I get as vice president of the World Federation (kik boxing), which counts 119 member states. I couldn't get there through any business. This is decided by delegates from 119 countries. I got 111 votes, and my opponent only got eight votes. It's a paid function and most of it I live on, and I live on my profession at Higher School, Mr. Darling. You can check that out. I'm handing over three items. One is the Theory and Methodology, the other is the Technical and Tactical Preparation, and the third is the Pedagogical Practice. I suggest you be my free student on the subject of Pedagogical Practice. There's something you'll learn, my dear sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4010	There's no replica on the replica. Out of the question. You've caused a replica, listen to the answer and dot. Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4011	Mr. President, I'm very glad you've given in to the strict interpretation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. If it were two or three polemics a day, then you would probably not force the opposition to what you call obstruction, which is not obstruction, but simply the struggle of the opposition to take a breath. First, false claims brought here that this congregation never worked without a quorum. She worked last Thursday. It was found that there was no quorum, so it was counted in the O.R., so it was said 126, which I immediately went out to, so it could have been 125, and the Assembly was working. That's not true, there was no quorum, you worked to speak to two ministers. Furthermore, here Mr Jovanovic said that this time DOS is thrifty, that there is a limited number of MPs who can be in a working relationship in the Assembly. It's not a matter of austerity. It's a matter of persecuting the opposition. Every MP, whether in a working relationship or not, receives the same money. If there's no other salary, then he gets a pay gap. Here you have only prevented a number of MPs who do not have bread elsewhere, from having their working relationship and health insurance run through the Assembly, and nothing more. That was a clean-cutting opposition. We have five or six MPs who could not work. (President: Mr. Seselj, you are opening a replica to Mr. Jovanovic, and you have reached out to the Rules of Procedure). I commended you, and you're just interrupting me, only harassing me when I say things that are consistent with... (President: I was harassing the others, but you hit me. Nothing worse for my political career than for you to praise me. Okay, next time, I promise I'll attack you much harder, so you'll move forward in your career. So that's about the MPs who are here on permanent duty. And those who aren't, they have a salary, but they don't have pension and health insurance. That's pure-cutting. And in the end, since you never let me answer a variety of lies and untruths launched by DOS, you know, I do it through "The Witnesses", on four sides (shows the magazine "The Witness")...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4012	This last one's nicer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4013	I do that, that this is better for the president of the Assembly (shows the magazine "The Witness"), just to watch, of course. What's the point here? Just laugh. What's the point? DOS uses the Sunday Telegraph, then he finds someone who's an outcast, takes someone out of the container, to launch a lie. When I answer and when I tell the truth... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm not looking for anyone from the container, not Peter Panic, not Ac Stefanovic, not 5th or 10th, I personally declare, I personally oppose, I personally expose myself. There's a difference here. DOSs are looking for people without morals, people without character, such people use in the fight against the Serbian Radical Party, thinking that through such lies they place in public they can portray as the truth. Well, you can't. The Witness testifies how much you're lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4014	Six reports, six violations of the Rules of Procedure, six abuses of the pay phone, and I'm taking five minutes off. [[After a break.]] I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we can keep working. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4016	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the chairman, Mr. Minister, I've come out twice for a pay phone and warned you, as chairman, that I doubt your evaluation of the conduct of the session. I think you were the one who was supposed to react to Mr Pelevic's exposure, not me, because in Article 101, paragraph 4. - maintaining order at session, paragraph 5, reads: "If the MP presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons... "You could have reacted. I don't know why you didn't as chairman, chosen by these 176 MPs of the DOS, protect them from that type of qualification why they are here, who they serve and why they sit in the O.R. and whether they are doing their job properly or not. I think you were obliged to do that and then there would be no need for my reaction. The next thing you know, Mr. Chairman, I don't know if you're aware that after discussions like this, after the threats I've suffered from MPs whose MP group, president or party leader I mentioned, that you have complicity in the fact that the image of this Parliament is what it is, because you've allowed this kind of story, debate and abuse of a pay phone by certain MPs and that kind of provocation. So, according to Article 101(5), you were supposed to act as chairman, which was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. A very ugly picture of parliament and a very ugly qualification of MPs sitting here you should prevent, as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4017	Mr. Ambassador, it is not my duty to assess the truthfulness of any MP, nor Mr. Pelevic, nor yours. You object that I did not react by grading someone's exposure to the false. It is not my duty, it is the duty of the president of the parliamentary group, and he used his right to report for the replica. And therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not mine to judge whether someone's telling the truth or not telling the truth. As far as the threats are concerned, etc. There's nothing there. If you respect the Rules of Procedure, you have nothing to say but that you are asking the Assembly to declare that a broken Rules of Procedure has been broken whose number I have not heard - 88, 101?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4018	So you're not listening to me. You cannot register any member, or any position of the Rules of Procedure I have said and how you can discuss it, and you answer to me whether it is true or not. I just said that then you have to have some elemental facts that you know when an MP is talking here whether or not it applies to MPs, whether it's possible or not, and whether it's an offensive qualification for me, the MP who sits in the back row, I know why I'm here, and I know what kind of work I'm doing here. So Article 101(5).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4019	Are you asking for the Assembly to make a statement about this? (Michilo Markovic: Yes. ) I would like to put to the vote Mr Markovic's proposal that the Rules of Procedure in Rule 101 of Article 5 have been broken. I'm asking you to make your point. For 43, against 96 abstentions, 29 did not vote 14, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has found that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure under Article 101(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Replica, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4020	Dear ladies and gentlemen, my discussion was truly well-intentioned. I absolutely didn't want to offend anyone. Mr. Markovic told me in the hallway that I was talking about all 176 DOS MPs. That's not true. I was talking about half or even talking about almost half. So, only those MPs who do not perform their duty and failure to do so destroy the dignity of the highest state body and of the citizens who have chosen us. So, if anyone recognizes themselves in that, then it's really his problem. I really didn't mean to insult everyone. I always say that all those who come regularly to the sessions, those who come forward, those who write amendments, honest and honest people's representatives, MPs. Mr Markovic did not hear well, and I ask the lady who writes to explain to him that I was talking about the half of the MPs who do not perform their duty. If Mr. Markovic has suffered, as he says, threats from some member of our parliamentary group, I apologize to him for that. I truly suppose that someone, irritated by his speech of my morality, or immorality, has said that, and therefore, I apologize for that, but I claim that no one like Mr. Markovic can talk about my morals or any other MP's morals. I guess he knows it well, and he knows why.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4021	This was a replica and there's no replica on the line, Markovic. On Article 48, paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (WHISPERING)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4022	There's nothing to know about you. Once you're together, you're opposed, God asks what this congregation will look like. To get back to the subject and agenda, so the president doesn't use emergency technical means, we break off with the switch and it doesn't break down. In fact, the proposal is to make it easier for corporate profit tax incentives based on investment investments to increase from 50% to 60% or to 60% more specifically. Here, you see how the government defends its views, even on such amendments that, in total terms, in the total amount of money that comes from this type of tax, does not seem to be a major disturbance. The government in its own explanation says that this type of tax can make a maximum of 3%, bearing in mind, of course, that relationship and those revenues since 1999. As far as I understand in this text, and now this income will not be more than a percentage, and the increase in the rate of relief to the private sector by about 10% or the use of opportunities up to 10% is not of any importance, especially given the importance, and I assume that the minister is not very familiar with his associates, that this tax has also been attached to the administration of the Vojvodina Assembly. So that percentage, if we subtract the 10% that was given as the original income to the Vojvodina Assembly, will now be realistically below 3% this year. And it means a lot as tax relief to those who go into investment. If the rule were to compare to the past period there was some logic. We don't have sanctions now. In his exposé, the prime minister of the government said it would act stimulatingly on a private initiative. Now, what kind of stimulation is this if you don't contribute through tax policy to this private sector, especially in the part where it is invested in fixed assets. You know, what they say, time has done its part. One part of these basic assets is technologically and technically obsolete and it is normal for people to move into new investments, which are not even small, especially given the pay power. It all comes down to one, slightly said, the government's stubbornness and their claim that by smart progress or progressiveness we come to realistic solutions. This is where everything falls into the water. Here is proof that this smart progress leads to mistakes that will be catastrophic and is not reluctant to read this statement by Dr Vojislav Seselj - with you from DOS Corporation is the easiest. A man can reason with you to discuss it. These tax policy laws, which you've adopted, you can vote most of the way, and you can reject these amendments, but explain it to the people. Explain how far you go in your stubbornness. It even threatens the real danger of eliminating a parliamentary group like the SRS. That's how Aca Pharmaceutical works, with money Batic brought from abroad, worth $6 billion. From your will, will you adopt the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4023	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 61, against 123, a abstentioned one, was not voted 9 out of 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 48, the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4024	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the President of the Assembly for investing a lot of energy. First of all, he had technical problems when I was about to present my amendments, then he had a problem with the quorum, eventually with the replicas. I hope today the President of the Assembly will have no more problems like this. Or have him properly solve his problems. I would like to make an amendment to Article 48, which is also spoken of by MP Mircic. Since you did not accept that article, in Section 2, instead of "50%" to "60%", you may be able to accept my amendment where an increase of only 5% means 55%. First of all, Mr. Mircic has given enough arguments for everyone. I'll add a few more sentences. By recognising a higher percentage than investment, we encourage, above all, a private initiative. With this percentage increase, we stimulate the taxpayer to invest in fixed assets, faster development of its activity, and in particular the economy, which already has a tendency to shut down and collapse. The Serbian Radical Party believes that by developing economic activity, we also provide a higher level of employment for workers, making society and state a multiple benefit. Since you have not recently adopted the amendment regarding the amortisation of machines used in healthcare, I do not expect you to adopt this one, it is enough that you have already adopted my and Mr Stamenkovic, but at least the truth is slowly coming out and that is, above all, Dr Vojislav Seselj's interview (in the hands of the newspaper). Besides that interview, I'd like to ask you to pay attention, there's a lot about Leskovec and DOS, how he behaves and what he does in Leskovac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4025	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 119, the abstentions were not voted 14 out of 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 48th National MP Petar Petrovic has submitted an amendment, proposing that a new member of 48a be added after article 48a. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4026	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we were on our way to the afternoon session, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, we'd probably be voting on a full corporate tax bill right now. But I wouldn't return the discussion. I would only ask you to count and see what percentage of the MPs of the Serbian Unity Party are present for public reasons. There are 14 of them and all 14 of them are there. If there were at least 80% of the other MPs present in the O.R., there would be no delay and they would always finish the job on time. Now let me read the amendment I've made, and it concerns foreign investments. The wish of the Serbian Unity Party is, like mine, to speed up investment in foreign capital, because, as is known, domestic economy has no capital to invest in new businesses. In the case of a foreign investor whose capital is at least 10% in the total capital, or where the obligor operates exclusively with foreign capital, the foreign capital tax of 5 years from the day of the investment shall be reduced in proportion to the foreign capital's participation. I wouldn't have, believe me, been going out on this pay phone if I hadn't been a little irritated by the government's explanation of why he refused this amendment. By changing this attitude, the Government says: "According to this, and in line with the European Union's business code, it is proposed to abolish tax incentives that are particularly stimulating foreign capital compared to domestic capital, as this also leads domestic legal entities to a more unfavourable position, so the amendment is not accepted." Gentlemen Ministers, what business code are you talking about, the European Union? By what moral code do you speak, European Union? Is that the code of those who have kept us under glass for 10 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4027	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 119 abstentions, one of 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 84(2) of the amendment, the Legislative Committee submitted. The amendment was agreed by a proposing representative at the session of the Legislative Committee. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 93, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by the Legislative Committee. The amendment was agreed by a proposing representative at the session of the Legislative Committee. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Since the amendment was adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 96, paragraph 3 of the amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. The proposer's representative agreed at the session of the Legislative Committee. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Since the amendment was adopted by a representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 107 of the amendment. The Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 107th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4028	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this was not a random mistake by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and before the President of the National Assembly, Mr Marsicanin, said that I had an amendment to Article 107, he informed you that the government had submitted the amendment, and of course, the one I submitted, as well as some other colleagues, the MPs of the SRS, was rejected, with a strange explanation of the government. We had the same case with the Transport and Excise Tax Act - that it is harmonising and that the Government will comply with federal regulations the amount of the tight interest, on which I am submitting the amendment, because the original proponent predicted that for those taxpayers who do not pay the tax on time, the tightening interest would be 0.2% a day. You will agree with me that this is absolutely unacceptable, in a situation where Minister Djelic and the government predict inflation at an annual level of 30%, and if the government's position in this article were applied 107, it would be far more. That is why, as with the previous time, the Transport Tax Act, I proposed that the tight interest be brought into line with the econtamination rate of the NBJ, on an annual basis. So, this wasn't a random failure of the government, but the intention of trying to squeeze that amount of tight interest, which would be more than twice as much of the inflation that was planned, and it's clear to me first of all, when I saw it again in this bill, it associated that we could expect much more inflation in this year, than 30%, as explained to us by the resolution minister and government in general. So our people would say, "It's not a neck, it's a neck." The government of the Republic of Serbia says -- we will comply with federal regulations. And the fact that you've violated the federal bond law this time, Art. In 278, and in 279, nothing happened to anyone. Under pressure from amendments and MPs who worry about such dramatic, astronomical measures being applied, so high-stricken interest -- nothing. But that is not just the case with this amendment, and it is not the case that only around that amendment and everything that the MPs of the SRS have been saying is annoying. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are also upset at the inscriptions in the newspaper, such as today's Witness, in which you can clearly see on four pages what about the insidious intentions of you from DOS, says Dr Vojislav Seselj, the president of our party, because all your plans have fallen into the water, all of what you have possibly intended to do, now you will have to give up. Not a handful of any traitors from Belgrade, Loznica, or wherever they found them, or invented them in their ranks, and it also says here, will help you to disable us and to narrow us down in our intentions to continue to criticise them, no matter how much the resolute minister gets nervous, no matter how much his assistant, or deputy, I really don't know what function Mr Popovic has, he shows up and disappears, trying to explain to us through the DOS channel how the government, proposing this package of tax laws, had an extremely generous attitude towards the taxpayers. How blessed you are, they will see every citizen of the country, when you slap him with these tax rates in his pocket. Soon these reckonings will come, soon these laws will come into effect, and then you will see what you will do with yourself, where you will flee with your head no matter when that day comes that you and those who voted for you for punishment for introducing such an imposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4029	He has the word Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for days, weeks, Minister Djelic is drilling his chest in front of this National Assembly, giving us a package of tax laws, which has been modelled by the EU. I now call on Minister Djelic to go to the National Assembly and say -- in which EU country there is a provision such as that in Article 107 of the law we are talking about, that 0.2% of the interest on each tax debt is charged daily. Where is that in the EU, so much interest? If the minister had suggested, not an econtamination rate of the NBJ, but had said -- in double the amount of escontaneous rate, annual interest, so it would be acceptable. Why is this 0.2% a day, when we already have another legal provision, which was said to be a mandatory charge at night. For example, Dejan Popovic, with a woman's sock over his head, breaks in with an automatic rifle and says - money or life. That's a provision you've passed, and now this one - 0.2% a day. Well, you promised to normalize the situation on the money market, in the banking system, in the economy at all. Well, I guess our common goal is to get back to the billing of annual interest, on all grounds, and on the basis of loans, and various claims, debts and everything else. In the EU, a 10% interest per year is already a miracle, when banks lend loans at much lower rates, and when it is owed to the state, there is a penalty part of the interest, but it is nowhere this big. What's this 0.2% a day for? What does that mean? Why isn't the state counting on the same interest? Of course, you will be referring to the practice of previous years. But the practice of previous years was based on sanctions and blockades. When a mobile phone tax was delivered earlier, there were sanctions and blockades, and you say, you took over from the earlier period. No more sanctions, no more blockades. No excuse to practice in the previous period can apply to you. Now you're like the NATO Pact and the European Union's favorites here in the ideal conditions of business. There are no sanctions, there is no blockade, and even you share the gold of the Kingdom of Serbia with the Croats and Slovenians, only to get their hands on it as soon as possible. You even sent Neda Arneric, as a Croatian, as your representative, to the NATO Pact Assembly in Dubrovnik. That was a good personnel solution for you. That was a great personnel solution. Neda Arneric is an expert on military issues, so she was ideal for the NATO Pact Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4031	Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4032	I get them, Mr. President, but you don't intervene at the time. I look forward to a dialogue with the majority party and immediately accept the topic they impose. I would now return to Minister Djelic and his 0.2%. Since there are no more sanctions, no more blockades, since you are the mezmits of the NATO Pact, Americans and the European Union, stay away from all that has been brought into existence for the past 10 years. Let's show here that you're in favor of European law. Give one law of the European Union by which interest is prescribed for late payments of any 0.2% per day.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4033	Mr. Seselj is right, and that's exactly why we changed that provision. As you saw in that text that was delivered, the government's amendment is intended to move to agreement with what is on the federal level, as Miss Jovanovic just said. So the tight interest will be consistent with federal law. The federal law says the price rate at a small monthly rate, plus 0.5%. That would be plus 1.2% until two months ago, and that amendment in the Federal Assembly reduced to 0.5%. However, there are very tight interest rates that are very high. If we're on it, I'd just like to point out that the econtaneous rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia may, in the foreseeable future, be able to become a base for calculating tight interest, but not now. Because if we count on a tight interest rate like Mr. Seselj said, it must at least be realistically positive. However, the economic rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia in recent years has never been realistically positive, even today is not realistically positive. For this reason, if we want financial discipline, and I think we all agree, we need to find another base, another basis for it, and the price growth rate for a little bit is that security that a tight interest will play its part, not to punish those who regularly pay, but there is still some little discipline for those who are late. Why didn't we decide on a bigger charge, maybe you'd be interested in it, because we were expecting a decision from the federal constitution. We checked, and last week they decided to propose to be exactly that, so that the tight interest is exactly in line with federal law and that's what the growth rate is to be, plus 0.5%.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4034	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 61, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote of 7, a total of 191 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Miroljub Mircic submitted to the 107th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4035	What is about the government's proposal, or what the Minister is now announcing, is that we need to realistically see how many taxpayers can settle their obligations to the state in this economic situation. There will be a much larger number on the other side that is not truly able to settle at these tax rates of their commitment to the state. They've got every penny that's tight, and frankly, it's big. Especially a tight interest, or a percentage account based on which the government calculates these tight interest rates, will be an additional burden. It all resembles a percentage bill on the increase in electricity that the minister and his associates have explained nicely. They say there'll be a 60% increase in electricity, and then another 40% in the next period. They say it's 100% total. Yeah, until second grade. Already in third grade, children learn a percentage account and already know that those 40% of accounts are based on basics already included in 60%. And so these tight interest rates, that's how a whole fiscal policy works in that way at all. What is confusing is that it is inconsistencies between the governors of the National Bank and the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the governor of the National Bank claims that monetary conditions are stable, that there is no reason for any panic, especially for that kind of panic and uncertainty in the case of inflation. Minister Djelic says some of these parameters, such as the escontaneous rate, are unrealistic. That unreality was obviously created, or its author is the governor of the National Bank. It would be best if the public were well informed that you would sit down, since you're from the same corporation, from the DOS Corporation, to deal with this phantom group G17. Obviously, they're pushing your clips, and it's obvious that they're running some kind of economic policy that's independent of you who think you actually have power. The government, apparently, is in the hands of the G17 group, especially the governor of the National Bank and of Minister Labus, who is a favorite of the Western government. You have to take care of it. By yesterday, you were in the same party together, so make a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4036	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 60, against 115, there were no abstentions, no vote was 14; a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 107th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4037	When I read the criminal provisions of this law, at first I thought this was a technical mistake. Knowing the secretary of the assembly, I wasn't surprised. However, when I looked at other law proposals, the criminal provisions also said that, in the event of non-compliance with tax obligations, interest was 0.2% late, then I imagined, as I would remind you that Mr Djindjic, in his approach speech in this assembly, said that the projected inflation in this year was 30%. It was repeated by Minister Djelic here at least one 50 times in the previous days, and all documents that talk about public spending this year are based on that the projected inflation is 30%. So, I had a dilemma -- either a technical error or someone's lying. I am pleased that it seems to have been a technical mistake, so the government did not want to intervene in the sense that the technical services had failed, and that the government and its amendments, in addition to the fact that the SRS MPs gave this article a dozen amendments, accepted and corrected it. But, Mr. Djelic, I don't understand, if we're firmly behind the fact that the projected inflation is 30% for this year, why didn't you come out with an absolute amount and say -- late interest based on the settlement of tax liabilities is so much and so much. That's easy to calculate on the basis of 30% inflation, but you said -- the cost of life increase plus 0.5%. So, definitely this government and you, Mr. Minister, are planning that inflation will be well above 30% and that's why you've installed, or you're saving the state budget through this life-saving clause.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4038	I'd just like to point out that we have two ideas. One is the cost of living, and the other is the price for a little bit. The federal law is about rising prices to a little bit, they're not always the same figures. Secondly, as for the annual or monthly amount, the projected inflation is 30%, as we have seen in the first trimester, will be in the second trimester. The growth of inflation will not be equal every month. So projecting ahead and dividing into 12 wouldn't be a good measure, because in some months it's going to be higher, in other smaller ones. Sometimes people are only a month late. There's no intensity for inflation to be greater.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these legal projects have otherwise become too far-fetched in the jurisdiction of the federal state. Some taxes are also prescribed, and they could not comply with federal law, which regulates the issue. When it comes to the parameters to be used and used most here, I think it's important to highlight the difference between price growth and cost of life. The current government and finance minister pay much more attention to the issue of price growth, as if something tells us about the overall economic and social situation in society. The minister is also able to prove the drop in prices to a small extent, because customs duties have been abolished or have been severely reduced by a whole series of luxury goods, e.g. for whiskey or some technical stuff. We will have the right flood of foreign production goods because of this downing of customs rates, but this will lead to a decline in living standards, a reduction in the purchasing power of the population, and that will actually make this traditional consumer basket an illusion, an inaccessible average citizen. The cost of life falls rapidly and the cost of life falls also because the customs rate is reduced for all goods linearly. That where you prove to us... (votes: that's also the goal of falling). No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I know that's your goal, but then it doesn't contribute to economic recovery, it contributes to continuing to our economy. We need to be a closed market for all those goods that can be produced with us, and if we're not completely closed to being such customs barriers to encourage production, to encourage citizens to buy domestic goods, and only where domestic producers are threatened to be too spoiled in terms of quality, to let them know by intervention imports that they can't behave. So it's the whole concept of economic policy, which DOS government is implementing both at federal and republican level. He's wrong, you'll destroy domestic production. It is already over and gone, and too liberal import policy you will turn us into a market for external economies, Western economies. We'll be able to buy everything, but there won't be anyone to buy it. That's the problem with your economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4040	Just two things. The previous one said... (Vojislav Seselj: which predecessor? I'm not your predecessor, I'm Mr. Vojislav Seselj. ) Professor Vojislav Seselj said and it can be understood that the price rise has nothing to do with the cost of life. That's not true. If you look at the weights of how the price increases are measured for a little bit, of course it's not separated from how people live. How does that happen? In what is measured every month, it is all produced, but those that are important to life have a greater weight. That's why we have very often correlation, so the cost of life and prices go a little bit together. There are fewer deviations than that, but mostly it goes together. As for customs, let us consider the specific proposal proposed by the federal government to the Federal Assembly. In fact, in many segments, what it was, to call it an import lobby, some excise products have been removed, it can even be said that some of the illogicalities that still existed in the transitional government have now been removed. See what happens, for example. with imported cigarettes. If we're talking about this industry, people who work in Vranje and Nis, today we've got memos, they're extremely pleased with the new balance that has been achieved in that area. That's right, I could say, and in the domain of the car. The truth is that those who produce cars are looking for even more protection, but they are already on one normal level today. When we compare everything, we see that we have something balanced. It's not the authority of the republican level, but since we're already talking about it, I just want to say that this customs law is not only done through a rather large public debate, it's been delivered to the chambers and there's been a big debate and today it's heading towards the federal assembly to vote on it at the May 9th session and I hope it will be adopted in that form. [[Employer Seselj is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4041	He's right because the name is mentioned, but he has no right because nothing is misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4042	Whenever someone introduces weighting, they want to blur something out. The weighting is always a subjective category, you have no objective criteria to determine the weights. Secondly, we now have the same excises for both domestic and foreign cigarettes. The tobacco factory Vranje has seven-month supply. The problem is also at the tobacco factory in Nis, I don't know exactly how many supplies there are. That's what's the real consequence of this policy of yours. You can't even out all domestic and foreign cigarettes. No one in the world does that. You've liberalized the import of whiskey. A smart government would completely ban imports of foreign alcoholic beverages. Why? Who drinks whiskey here? Only DOSs and their satellites drink, no one else. Why even knock down customs rates for importing whiskey? You have a lobby that helped you in the election campaign and now you're paying back his debts. If you want to end the monopoly, then why did you seduce the monopoly for importing oil and oil derivatives? No one can import except those who are close to you, to whom you give your permits. ... who had to shut down the gas stations. In the end, what you've been throwing away, and this book is your testimony, I'm not a former but current, regular professor of law school in Belgrade. This is a booth from the magazine "Serbian Freedom Thought", titled "Minister of Education Gašo Knezevic as an intellectual misery and moral freak". These are... Mr. Seselj, please choose your words. )......................................................................................................... Your authority's testimony, and in order not to be angry with the president of the National Assembly, I will solemnly give him that booth.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4043	Thank you very much. If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 58, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 112 of Article 3 and Article 4 of the amendment. The Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that new 112a and 112b be added after Article 112. The Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 117 of the amendment. The Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. This ended the search of the bill, in particular and the decision on amendments. Does the Proposer's representative want to give the final word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. I put the bill on corporate tax in general. For 124, against 55, there were no abstentions, no 9. A total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on corporate tax. Since the National Assembly adopted the draft company tax law in general, I note that when preparing the Law on publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" in the text of the Law, the proposal of the Legislative Committee relating to the legal and technical order in Article 33(1) contained in the report of the Legislative Committee agreed by the proposing representative at the Committee's session will be introduced. Before we move to the sixth item of the agenda, with an apology, they reminded me that I hadn't informed you about the continuation of the session, the outcome of the meeting that was scheduled in the session break, so I'll read you a statement that came out of the session. At a meeting of the presidency of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with representatives of DOS parliamentary groups, the SPS and the SS, as well as the National MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, the following content was adopted: The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia strongly condemns the deployment of customs checkpoints by UNMIK on the Kosovo and Metohija administrative lines with Serbia. This one-sided action by UNMIK administration makes it even more difficult to deal with the dramatic situation in Kosovo and Metohija anyway and could lead to an even greater loss and eviction of the Serbian and other non-Albanian population. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia considers it justified for Serbs in the entire territory of northern Kosovo and therefore requires UNMIK to remove illegal customs duties more urgently because they are contrary to Resolution 1244. That's what I owe you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4044	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4046	Mr. President, any document that this assembly adopts and that originates with the Assembly must be clearly marked. It's not the Parliament's document until it's voted. And it must be debated. We are prepared to get the new agenda item into the agenda urgently and to discuss it, and that is a minor offense, rather than what is being done. Without a vote, without a debate, any statement is adopted. Then it's not a national assembly statement. The question that we're talking about is very important. A definitive separation project is being implemented between Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. To this move very softly and in no way did the Federal and Republic Government react. There are speculations that someone from the Republic or the federal government gave consent, and so the occupiers spoke to Serbs protesting in the northern area of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4047	You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4048	I insist on having a congregation debate on this. An extraordinary session can be held tonight and tomorrow morning, at any time, and the National Assembly enters a thorough debate, so that this debate may result in a congregation statement. This doesn't mean anything. He met Janko, Marco with Per and Djok and wrote a text. It doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean anything to anyone. This assembly should bring either a declaration or a resolution on this issue, as it is a very important issue, where our position should be categorically clear. I propose, therefore, a special session at which we will discuss this issue and then adopt either congregation conclusions or resolution or declaration on this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4049	Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, while the session is under way, only under certain circumstances can the Government of the Republic of Serbia propose to supplement the agenda. As regards the next session, authorised proposings may propose a resolution, declaration, conclusions, etc. This statement came out of the assembly meeting as indicated in the introduction. The debate is not opened and the Assembly does not decide and is not the Parliament's document.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4050	It's a business thing. Are you giving me your word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4051	So, come on, do you insist?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4052	According to our Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, there is no Parliament Presidency. There are presidents and several vice presidents. There is no body that would constitute a presidency with a group of MPs on a certain scale. This statement in the legal sense doesn't mean anything. Then you shouldn't have even informed the National Assembly. You could have signed five of you under that statement or you 10, as many of you as you were at the meeting, and that's your personal position. There is no position of the president of the National Assembly, beyond what is voted in the National Assembly. There is your personal position as MP, who is acting as president of the National Assembly. I don't touch your personal attitude. For all that comes out of this National Assembly, there must be a vote and there must be, according to the Rules of Procedure, a congregation majority. According to article 127, in addition to laws and budgets and development plans, the National Assembly is making a declaration, resolution, recommendation, decision, conclusion, without reading the rest, none of us are concerned today. So we can bring the resolution and this is such a serious thing that a resolution is necessary. The text of the resolution can be prepared by the government and I have nothing against it. Let him prepare us, to have a debate, to vote or not to vote. In some milder situations, a declaration can be made, conclusions can be reached, recommendations can be made to both the Republic and the Federal Government, that can be done. That session has to be scheduled, it can be scheduled for tonight, it can be tomorrow morning. An emergency session of the National Assembly may always be scheduled, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4053	I take this as a suggestion. We move to the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for Taxes on the Property of Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4054	Mr. President, before the debate in detail on the 5th item of the agenda, you have been warned of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have not responded adequately, and I want to explain to you now how you are doing a breach of the Rules of Procedure, even though you yourself say you have been doing so since you were elected president. Article 133 fully regulates the procedure for the adoption of laws, such as this 6th item of the agenda. Paragraph 1 reads: "The proposal for a law first leads to a principled search". Paragraph 2 speaks of the fact that a principled search can be conducted on several laws if they are connected in a certain way. Paragraph 3 says, "After the completion of the principled search, the National Assembly decides whether the bill is accepted in principle or not." The next stance says, "If the bill is not accepted in principle, the procedure for it is suspended." You're moving on to the procedure in particular even though we haven't decided whether or not we're going to pass the law in principle. As soon as we finished the debate in principle, Mr. President, you should've put the sixth item of the agenda on the vote now, whether we were going to adopt the law in principle or not. If we adopt the law, then you shall inform us how many amendments have come, who has submitted amendments and on which members, etc., and then you shall give the word, by order, to those who, according to the Rules of Procedure, have the right to the word and even to the applicants of the amendment. So we haven't decided at all whether we're going to move on to any debate in particular in this law. The leader of this debate is the adoption of the law in principle. So please, Mr. President, follow the Rules of Procedure. As soon as we finish the debate in principle, put the law to the vote, in principle. If we adopt him, we move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4055	There's no need for us to split or in order for Mrs. Jovanovic to, don't just tell me that I'm insulting someone, she said, not neck, but neck. I repeat her words that were not offensive - not neck, but neck. I'll first give you the information the amendments have come to. So, what'd you get from the material? You already know that, though. That's all I'm saying. Then we move on to decision-making in principle and reviewing the amendments. Please state whether the injured Rules of Procedure are in Rule 133(3). Please vote on Mr Nikolic's proposal, which asks you to state whether there has been a breach of Rules of Procedure in Rule 133(3). For 37, against 135, the two abstentions, did not vote 23, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4056	Mr. President, I warn you there are two documents here. One is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which binds us all, and the other is a reminder. That reminder is your internal paper prepared by the secretary. When your reminder is in disagreement with the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, not your reminder, shall apply. If the reminder is not in agreement with the Rules of Procedure, then the secretary needs to get his ears, out there somewhere in a closed area, not in front of the National Assembly, we wouldn't be comfortable with it. But you can't impose your reminder on us as an act more important than the Rules of Procedure. If the Rules of Procedure say they vote first in principle, because until the law is passed in principle, we are not interested in who submitted the amendment or whether there are amendments. You keep insisting, because your secretary made a mistake, telling us all the amendments, and then voting in principle. So we're doing something completely unnecessary on condition that the law doesn't go into principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4057	I'm not saying that you can't do it anyway, I'm just saying that the reminder is in line with the Rules of Procedure, which is confirmed by the Assembly by the vote. You can do it anyway. (Tomislav Nikolic from the scene: today may not be Wednesday? Today is not Wednesday. (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: let's put it to a vote. There's no need. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Velimir Simonović, Bozidar Vučurović, Miroljub Veljković, Stevan Kesejić, Bozidar Vujic, Milos Lukić, Srboljub Živanovic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Bora Stanimirović, Đorđe Mamula, Arsen Kurjački, Slobodan Pavlovic, Dusan Ilic, Veroljub Arsic, Natasa Jovanovic, Ljubomir Kragović, Zivko Selaković, Petar Jojić, Borislav Pelevic, Milorad Mirčić, Dragoljub Stamenković and Goran Cvetanovic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, MPs Velimir Simonovic and Dusan Ilic gave up their amendments. The Legislative Committee has proposed that, within the framework of the legal and technical regulation in Article 2 paragraph 1 of point 4 it should be amended to read: "4) the right of time-limit (time-sharing)", which was agreed by a representative of the legislator, at the meeting of the Committee. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law, in principle. National MP Dragan Jovanovic has suggested that we also declare ourselves publicly about this law by calling it out. I am putting forward a proposal by MP Dragan Jovanovic for a statement. For 58, against 128, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of 198 MPs. I find that no proposal by MP Dragan Jovanovic has been accepted. I'm putting a vote on the property tax bill, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 135, against 59, there were no abstentions, there were no 5 votes, of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill, in particular. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic, one of the amendments, proposed that Articles 3 and 1 of Article 11 be deleted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4058	... I don't know what's wrong with these technical devices. I suggest to the Assembly that we think carefully about what to do with the technical secretary, whether this was intent or... We can't lose two hours of technical disadvantages here. So, let me rephrase, honourable MPs, if I commended the government in the morning that their proposal for corporate tax is the best in this tax package, then, Mr. Minister, the property tax bill is the worst for you. Absolutely the worst. Not even Genghis Khan would have introduced this to subdued nations. This bill has exactly 50 members, and I could give all 50 amendments. That's how bad the bill is. Probably my colleagues will talk about the other members, I'll keep your attention on one amendment, and it applies to the taxation of legal persons, according to this law. I suggested that Article 3 be completely deleted, Article 11 of Section 1 deleted, i.e. I suggested that legal persons be exempt from tax on property. In this new tax package, in this whole new tax package, you've killed legal persons, i.e. companies, peopleally. You've significantly increased your salary tax, you've significantly increased your service tax, you've increased your sales tax, and in the end, you've been significantly cutting the costs that show up when you register your profits. In addition, you have arrived in this short time to humanely butcher all successful companies in Serbia. These failures were of no interest to you. So, when companies pay off everything, pre-numbered taxes, they end up waiting for them as cake cream, property tax. To find out, Mr. Minister, companies don't work, workers don't get paid, there's no profit, there's no investment, and by this law you realize that the property tax has to be paid. It's just that you have to tell these companies and companies where you came from. I'm asking you where to pay from. They'll probably say, Mr. Minister, at the end of their closing statement, at the end of the day when we practically apologize, since the amendments are not accepted, that the company's property tax is small, 0.4% on the value of the company's assets. Is that how it is and is it a small tax? Let's get the appropriate companies from my neighborhood, the First Five-year-old, Trieste, you've all heard of her. In some information, the value of its assets is about 800 million marks. Maybe even more, but the first analysis says it's that big. So 0.4% of that is 3 million and 200,000 marks or almost 100 million dinars. Imagine "The First Five-year-old" when he pays all taxes, 12,500 workers, increased tax base and contributions, and then paid all these taxes, and at the end of the year 100 million dinars of property tax. Who can pay for that? It's the first five-year-old, I'm responsibly saying, she won't be able to pay. I therefore propose that companies do not tax themselves with this type of tax, at least until business starts, until companies are on their feet, that this type of tax be temporarily abolished, or abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4059	The People's MP, Mr. Vojislav Seselj, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4060	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS insists that Article 3 of this property tax law be deleted. Article 3 provides for taxation of actions and shares. In terms of transition, as you call it, or privatisations, many workers have come free of charge to own shares and shares. These actions, mostly, do not bring dividends, rarely that they bring and will not bring dividends for long. Workers who didn't know what it meant, they wrote down actions, they used to pay, they used to get free, they used to pay, and nobody gave them advances to know that one day it could be taxed. Now they tax those workers who trusted in the state, took action, free of charge, paid, paid off, paid off, and so on. They haven't even felt what it's like to get a dividend yet. Our biggest firms are in constant losses and they won't have a profit from which a dividend can be paid. Where a certain profit exists, the congregation of shareholders mainly decided to go into reinvestment. Whoever has action hasn't seen any yet, at least small tangible benefits from these actions except on paper. He won't have anything to pay his taxes on, his stock's on paper, he's gonna have 10 years left on paper, and now he's gonna have to pay his taxes on those shares. Of course, we had a Privatisation Act that envisioned every employee's right to free action, worth 400 marks, every year of work. Now, you see, these actions in one family can also accumulate quite a number, but mostly none of them got dividends, and now they should pay taxes. This provision, if reformed, might make sense, so as to say that the tax is paid only on those shares where dividends have been paid at a certain percentage and that the percentage is relative to the value of dividends, tolerable, rather than destimulative, so that any interest of shareholders in the start of suppression. You know, the shareholder must have an interest, to increase the number of his actions, to buy new actions, and the citizen must have an interest where he has the right to take action for free. This way, he'll have no interest in anything. Not even to come into possession of the shares for free, and let alone, God forbid he buys them, so that dividends are a "cat in a sack", something that is extremely uncertain, and that it's only a matter of paying taxes on shares whose official owner, and yet he hasn't been able to verify whether he really owns it, because there's still no right for us to once acquired shares, in former social firms, to sell on the market. So he's not the owner in the right sense of the word. As soon as someone who's a shareholder can't sell his shares, he's not the owner in the right sense of words, and he has to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4061	Thank you. The Minister, Mr Djelic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4062	Prof. Dr. Seselj is right, it would not be appropriate for workers who do not have a high income to pay taxes, and therefore I call on all MPs to read Article 12, the previous position, which reads: "The property tax on property rights to actions, issued on behalf and on participations in limited liability companies does not pay the debtor who obtained the right to do so on the basis of enrolment or purchase with a discount in the property transformation process, five years, calculated from the day he gained that right". So that's the answer to that question. I add, in the second text, and that's income tax, we've additionally given an incentive to acquire shares, by freeing the income tax this time 50% of income, from dividends. Thank you. [[Vojislav Seselj, from place: replica]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4063	No replica, you weren't mentioned. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: he mentioned me). Come on, you'll be looking at the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4064	I'm not doing business, I'm looking for a right to a replica because the minister mentioned me. Yeah, he started by mentioning my name to his exhibit, and it worked for me. Minister Djelic, you have listed a Article 12 here, which provides for the exemption from paying taxes on shares, within five years, from the date of the acquisition of that right. The first rights of action were acquired in 1990 at the time of the first privatisation carried out by the government of Ante Markovic, which was renovated in 1994, but remained a certain percentage of the actions officially owned by employees and citizens, and many entered the privatisation process after 1994. Many have long been able to expect dividends, and they can't even sell those stocks, so they can't get rid of them in any way, they can't transfer property to anyone, and they have to pay taxes, so this time I'm asking you to think about this problem a little bit. It's very important, it's not about the opposition party drawing attention to you, it's about our desire to make this law as good as possible and to suit our circumstances. So there could be one real restriction here -- that he doesn't pay taxes to the one who hasn't started receiving dividends from his action, and until the federal Free Transport Act is passed and on the stock market and he doesn't think about taxing actions. As long as a man can't sell his actions, give them up in any way, he's not in the right sense the owner of those actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4065	Is anyone else answering for the word after Mr. Miroljub Veljkovic's amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 92, the three abstentions did not vote 36, including 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4066	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, I have submitted this amendment to Article 3, bearing in mind that the previous amendment will not be accepted. Since he was accepted, it would likely affect the implementation of the plan and the implementation of the budget adopted at the outset, but I have purely technical objections and I am motivated to avoid the possibility that despite the fact that legal entities and natural persons are burdened with an extremely high rate of property tax, we do not come into a situation where this happens twice or more. The amendment reads as follows: "The property tax is not paid on shares issued on behalf and on shares in a limited liability company containing the value of the property taxed to Article 2 of this Act." What does that mean? If we contact Article 2, Article 3 and Article 4. The law leaves the possibility of double and even multiple taxation of the same immovableity. Given that tax exemptions are not covered by this situation where one immovableity is burdened by the obligation to pay the tax referred to in Article 2, so that same immovableity appears in the form of share capital or share capital referred to in Article 3, I believe, as well as the MPs of the Party of Serbian Unity, that this part which has already been taxed under Article 2 should not be taxed under Article 3 or should be excluded from this value. Who will be the most affected by this law? First of all, I think it leaves the possibility of a certain subjective approach to the interpretation of this member, so those companies that are not in the mercy of some powerful people will be taxed twice, and the most affected will be companies that work with social capital, which are registered as holding companies, where there are more companies, so we have a situation that one society appears as the founder of another, this third one, etc. This would mean that we tax one asset at the beginning with 0.4% later on as share capital by 0.25% and if this happens again we would have the same taxation. In Article 2, at the end, there is one clause that could relativise this, because it says that "in the case where there are some of the rights listed in Items 1 to 6 of this Article, the property tax is paid on that right rather than on property rights". However, we practically have a situation that the legal person is the owner of the immovable property, especially with the adoption of the privatisation law it will probably be an even more frequent case. If this amendment were to be adopted, the purpose of these tax rules would not be violated, nor would it affect the budget unless the government deliberately wanted to tax the same fixed property twice or twice. If the government really wanted it, I'd ask the minister to confirm it for this speaker, and then we'd know it was really a proposal. Otherwise, I think it would be quite right if that immovableity which is like the property of a legal person by Article 2 taxed, exempt or Article 3 meant this amendment that I have submitted, or that a special exemption for this type of tax already paid is added in Article 12.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4067	Is anyone else answering for a discussion under this amendment? No, I don't. I put to vote the amendments of MP Milos Lukic. For 49, against 96, two abstentions, 34, a total of 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic. The government has submitted its amendment to Article 5, which has become an integral part of the bill. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment of National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic. The Legislative Committee found that the solution proposed by Parliamentarians Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic in their amendment to Article 5 was contained in Amendment 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia, which the Committee accepted. In this way, the amendment of the National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic became an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I might have liked to have been in the group of colleagues Stamenkovic and Veljkovic, so that my amendment was accepted, too, if he had entered the proposal. This would confirm that you have accepted since my first amendment, that is, the Socialist Party MPs. Unfortunately, it's not like that. There was one, not on this bill, well (repeated Minister Djelic). There was one. So let me say a few sentences about the amendment I've submitted. Before that, I would just like to remind myself that I was the first participant in the debate on this package of legal projects based on an isolated opinion regarding Article 44. The housing law. That's when I gave one general assessment regarding a whole package of these laws. Mr. Djelic, with all the sympathy I had told him, and even today for what he did, I couldn't possibly understand what he suggested about the legal projects, I claimed that they were not completely reformic, they were not... As a young and educated man, I ask you, Mr. President, to distract Mr. Seselj, the professor, and tommy never to receive. [[Comment by the messenger Seselj is not heard]] Last time I was distracted by Mr. Mircic, then Mr. Veljkovic. Please, gentlemen of the Serbian Radical Party, to be a bit of a linguist. What do I mean? I said and then I repeat -- it's more like a regime, and again I say no one is offended by it, because they're pushing the whole story to fill a budget that's huge. I don't know if Col. Veljkovic is right when he says that of all these laws, maybe this is the worst. I'd be inclined to believe that and support him. I don't know if Genghis Khan adopted him for his subordinates, but I told the Assembly that he looked more like laws that were introduced to our enemies than our taxpayers, given the possibility of paying. In this regard, I must comment on the discussion of a respected DOS counterpart, who said roughly that MPs from the parliamentary minority, therefore from opposition parties, are conducting a diversion or sabotage of parliament's work by not supporting laws in principle, criticising laws, not voting for them, and then submitting a large number of amendments and thereby obstructing the Assembly. I don't know if you expect us to applaud everything the government proposes. Well, of course not. Opposition parties and should criticise and propose new and better solutions. What I'm saying is not going to be criticised at all costs of the proposed law, but to make a contribution, to the extent that we can, to make the solutions better, and then to vote for the law in general. At this point, it's not like that. That is why I have submitted to Article 5(2) of the amendment, which reads: "The level of the market value of the immovable property, is determined by the competent tax authority, with it being reduced annually by the depreciation of the prescribed nomenclature", so I added even with the Ministry of Finance's manual, but "up to 75% at the most". Why? In part, it was contained in the government's amendment, which just before the president of the assembly read, which practically accepted this. I don't know if my amendment has arrived before or whether it's Vladin. I handed him over on April 5th at 7:30. I understand the government has accepted all of this, but it's put the number 70%, if I'm right. Therefore, my intention was to claim that inflation and other reasons would increase the market value of immovableity. The frozen amortisation level at 60% is not realistic, and it is incorrect in relation to the obligor. That 75% figure is more acceptable, so in that sense I suggest that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4069	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 100, the abstentions, did not vote 31, out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's withdrawing the amendment. I find that MP George Mamula has withdrawn his amendment. National MPs Bozidar Vučurović, Petar Jojic, Ljubomir Kragovic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Bozidar Vujic and Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 9 of this Law provides for a way to determine the tax base in Articles 5 to 8 of this Law to be governed by the Minister of Finance and Economy. I suggested that this member be deleted because the law determines the tax base. The law itself lays down, or the law regulates the way in which the tax base is determined. The laws should be precise, there is less room for free interpretation and the laws do not know the terms - closer, narrow, wider, further, with, and so on. I suggested erasing this amendment for several reasons. The first reason is that the finance minister's shoulders have been charged with a great responsibility, and now he, doing only this job, would have to live for 10 years in the course of the year. The other thing is his assistant, who normally doesn't know, or a deputy, could do it. The third thing is that I know that there is one man in the entire Ministry of Finance who does this, Mr. Alexic, who gives interpretations. What interpretations he gave, one other time I'll show. Two absolutely different, by the same thing and the same base, and if this member had to formulate himself like this, then he should have stood that -- the way in which the tax base was determined by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The Minister of Finance and Economy will certainly not do this, especially as we have already established that the Minister of Finance and Economy does not understand himself in the account at all. If he says the inflation rate is 7.6% in the first trimester, so he calculates that's 30% on the annual level, that's what a unit gets in high school. If he still forgets that a few days before that he said the inflation rate transferred from last year is 20%, then this year we expect a total inflation of 10% at the end of the year. That means over the 7.6% of the first trimester, and not to go, we're going to have 50% inflation at the end of the year. I brought the Witness, to recommend it, to buy it, and to show it to the president.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4071	Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word of the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 9, we have a similar problem as in the previous law you voted on. Why is it so -- it's a key question that I'm being asked. Why is it said that the way to determine the tax base will be closer to the special act of the finance minister? Why isn't it already in the law more specific? Because apparently, this law was built at high speed. At such a high speed, this law could neither be well designed nor systematized, could not be comprehensive and comprehensive, could not be logically consistent and coherent from within. It wouldn't bother you very much to postpone the adoption of this law within a week, so you can set what you think is closer in special acts, in the law itself. Because tax issues are the most difficult problem facing each government, and tax laws are the most difficult in practice to apply. This is about property, first of all real estate. We know from experience, in these 200 years, the development of the Serbian fiscal system, that there was the most abuse, the most bribery, the most protection. Therefore, tax authorities should not be left with too much freedom of action and from the minister further. The most severe abuses are among those who need to apply the prescribed methodology and cut off a man's tax in one year. There are various factors that come to terms, and you didn't want to explain the key in this law. Leaving such a great freedom to tax authorities on the ground, you tempt them to abuse their great power and influence, and you put citizens in a very difficult situation, to always be afraid of the tax collectors coming, to be terrified of their judgments, and to resort to a variety of ways, to give them time-to-time charity, so that their tax assessment should be paid as low as possible, in order to be as acceptable to anyone who has to pay the tax. You will come this way to the situation that for the same property, the same value, in the same place, a different amount of tax will be paid, and citizens will not have the opportunity to protect their legal rights, but will be in the hands of the state administration. The tax law is a general legal act, which is passed by a legislative body and cannot be left to the mercy and mercy of any part of the administrative authority and its sublegal act, which can literally change from today to tomorrow from today to tomorrow, strictly arbitrary, and that the citizen does not have any adequate protection against such authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4073	There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled this amendment to Article 9. A bill on property tax, with a proposal to delete this member as a whole. For what? According to the proposal for a property tax law, Article 9 proposes that the way in which the tax base laid down in Articles 5 to 8 of this Law should be determined by the Minister of Finance and Economy closer. I believe that the tax base must be established by law, not by decisions, instructions or regulations of the minister. If this legal solution were accepted, as proposed, then the minister would put himself above the law with his powers. That is why I believe it is necessary for this member to be deleted and better arranged, and to be regulated by law, and in no case be given the authority of the minister, that he can play, as a government official, an individual legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4075	There is a word from the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am proposing that Article 9 be deleted in full text, for a simple reason, because the closer arrangement of the way in which tax bases are established cannot be done by the Minister himself and his service, but must be done, if it is not done by this law, which is a failure, then it must be brought closer to the sublaws. But for nothing, this is a logical explanation, and the reason why Article 9 should be deleted, when it is the very fact that everything that has been done, from the budget, so to speak, is this property tax law, and illogical and contained in it a series of legal nonsensions. And why would that surprise us? What's done in the hills, at sessions by Segedin, and what's called a DOS corporation, which this DOS corporation already knew in advance who its government would be, and that actually the government is ruling the DOS coalition, not DOS government, and it's not surprising that a series of nonsensicals like this. No wonder, really, because this is such a government, which is very happy to accept what Chancellor Djindjic here in his exposé said was the government of experts. What kind of experts are they? That's what this law shows. If we look closer, or those who have read it, although I doubt that many of the DOS have read, the reasons for the argument, for the adoption of this law, and this member, who says: "The system of definitions, the reconstruction of the monetary system and the economic recovery of Yugoslavia... ", and here it says "the economic recovery of Yugoslavia and its inclusion in European and world organisations, as an essential prerequisite requires essential, root fiscal reform, which will be on the path of these movements". Now, here are two questions -- first of all, when is this economic recovery planned? And secondly, which is also nonsens - does this mean that fiscal reform, in itself, results in economic recovery, or only economic recovery, by economic logic, can condition fiscal reform? What's that supposed to mean? There's this government of experts, and that's how we're supposed to approach these laws. I'm asking the citizens to put "experts" under quotes. I am aware, as Mircic said, that this amendment will not be accepted, but that I explain it to all citizens, especially DOS voters, that they understand it, if it is not understood by DOS and the DOS government, in Article 9, what is interesting and what is very transparent - it is the same word used by this so-called. The expert government - what I suggest to them - is that the way to determine the tax base must be prescribed by law. The law cannot allow a finance minister, as this law now provides, to regulate the way in which the tax base is determined, since it is the basic obligation of the legislator, in particular by an expert legislator, to respect the principle of legal certainty. When it's allowed in Article 9 that I'm a minister, it's arranged, where there's legal certainty for those taxpayers. Do they know in advance from this law, which is not arranged, or from any other sublegal act, what it is that awaits them. They are awaited by the way Mr. Minister woke up that morning and would be closer to editing, whether he would wake up in Belgrade, at one of the hotels in the presence of the government's escort agency, or perhaps Monmartre, or Pigal. Obviously, taxpayers don't have that legal certainty, and what it would be like to be this law, this article, is written by an expert. What we propose by this amendment is that this member is deleted and simply required to be regulated by law, or by any other sublegal act, and not by the discretionary law of a Parisian student.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4077	Is anyone else answering this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about this law, someone said it was one in a package of the worst. It means there's about 50 members. I've given the amendment to Article 9 which is linked to Articles 5, 6, 7, and 8, and I suggest that this Article 9 be deleted. He should be governed by law, not that the minister has the right to edit it. Tax bonds should participate in making a solution at the height of its base, so this member would get his place in a new member rather than in this as proposed. The same was true in the previous Law on Article 46, where we Serbian radicals gave the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4079	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 109, a abstentioned one, not voted 23, a total of 183 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Before we move on to the next amendment, let me read a statement I received. It's a statement from the government of the Republic of Serbia about something here. All the claims, which come from either side, are incorrect, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has been officially informed or even consulted about the introduction of customs checkpoints of Rudnica and Jerinje near Zubino Potok and Leposavic. The introduction of customs checkpoints has been notified by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by means of public information and considers that decision to be deeply wrong and contrary to all domestic and international legal regulations, in particular Resolution 1244. The government of the Republic of Serbia has also been informed of this position. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4080	Mr. President, as president of the highest legislative body, you were not allowed to read a government statement here. The Prime Minister or Government Minister should have addressed the National Assembly if it deemed appropriate, to inform the National Assembly and the statement. But to send you a letter, recommended by a courier, and for you to read here, it is an insult to the National Assembly. This violates the principle of equality of three branches of government. In this way, you submit parliament to the executive authority, and the legislative authority is in a system of strict division and equality of three branches of government, however, that branch which is slightly more equal than executive and judicial. Please don't say that again. If the government has something to say to the National Assembly, it has to do it itself, to get out a representative of the government, to say it, or to give it to the MPs in writing, not to let you read the government's statement here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4081	Does MP Vucurovic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4082	On Article 11, I submitted an amendment requesting that, on a tax base of up to 6 million dinars, in the name of the tax, 0,10%, because these days during the debate on the package of laws, we heard that it was about 0.3%, as it has been paid on the property so far. Then, further, from 6 million to 15 million, 6,000, plus 0.20 percent, 15 million to 30 million, 15 million dinars, plus 0.50 percent, because that's a real billable amount. A large number of these immovableities, as discussed in principle, that our people were working on temporary work abroad, so instead of investing in production, they invested in huge and magnificent houses that are now worth over 30 million dinars. A large number of these houses were inherited by people who once represented the middle class and now the impoverished middle class, so they can't pay for it, especially those people who bought out social housing. Take the simplest bill from 60 to 80 squares, you'll see how much this bill of yours will have to pay. There's no money. Then there's going to be another overnight tax charge, there's going to be a seduction of things, and until all this is done that money in the budget won't come. So it's better to leave people space and opportunities to pay what they need to pay, not to give the sales tax rate that was 0.3% so far, to increase in the beginning and by the poorest layers of the population, to 0.4%. It means that advocating that the poor layers of society pay less, is the simplest demagogy. Because from 0.3% should have gone to 0.2% or 0.1%, and not 0.4%, like, right now we've helped them a lot, which is going to pay more than one tenth of the percent, though, to what they're worth some real estate, that's really a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4083	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting MP Vučurovic's amendment to the vote. For 55, against 108, there were no abstentions, no 26 votes, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the provisions of Article 11. The proposal for a property tax law shows that for our citizens, very high tax obligations on property they own and on property that they legally acquired. That is why I suggested that the tax on property, the immobility of the taxpayer who runs the tax book, be reduced to 0.20%. According to the proposed law on the rights to the property of a taxpayer who does not keep a business book on a tax base of up to six million is paid on behalf of the tax of 0,20%. On the tax base, between six million and 15 million is paid on behalf of the tax of 12,000 dinars plus 0.40% of the amount of over six million dinars. On the tax base of 15 to 30 million dinars is paid on behalf of the tax of 60,000 dinars plus 0.75% of the amount of over 15 million dinars. On the tax base, over 30 million are paid on the name of the tax, 120,000 plus 1% to the amount of over 30 million. I believe that, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, too high tax rates are provided for in Article 11. The proposal for a property tax law and does not correspond to the economic power of the taxpayer so that he can pay them. This high rate doesn't stimulate citizens to invest and to gain immobilities and at the same time reduces traffic on real estate. It is certain that, given the changed circumstances, you should consider reducing the tax rate to these amounts, because if you go to the Republic of Serbia, through the Forest, Pomoravlje, Negotinska krajina, Banat, Baka, you will see that our citizens, peasants, farmers and workers were building houses and building real estate, and that at this point they are very concerned, when they heard of such high rates, because they will have to pay high taxes. I believe that because of the changed circumstances and the economic power of our citizens, there are many reasons to reduce tax rates and adopt this amendment. That is why I propose to the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that you adopt this amendment, of course it will be accepted by the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4085	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting Jojic's amendment to the vote. For 52, against 103, there were no abstentions, no 30 votes, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 99, there were no abstentions, no 34 votes, a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4086	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have tried to draw attention to the DOS government many times in my previous presentations as to what all the consequences may be for the change in tax policy in society and the economy as ours and with the standard of living of citizens as ours. With this amendment, I suggested that the fixed tax base be reduced to six million from 0.4% to 0.2%. It must be clear to everyone, whether it is an economy, because in the economy every tax paid must be calculated at some price, whether in a margin or otherwise, it will be shown in the price of the product. However, this leads to a rise in price. Secondly, we will have to admit that with such a rigorous economic and tax policy as the DOS is now implementing, the tax paid by citizens can be classified as the basic cost of life. Because if they don't pay taxes, they'll be thrown out on the street. For all these reasons, I have suggested that at least a little easier for citizens and businesses and that the proposed rate of 0.4% be reduced to 0.2%. I would like to draw your attention to the witness list and this interview by the president of the Serbian Radical Party, Dr Vojislav Seselj. Did DOS get angry because the SRS managed to break through the media blockade? I guess so, we did it, and we'll get through it even better in the next time. They went all the way to the point where some MPs began to say that we bought that paper, probably to pay our taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4087	I ask the People's Messengers to make sure they're MPs, not colporteurs. It's already been 20 MPs coming out of the papers and advertising them. Doesn't make sense. Does anyone else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If no one answers for the word, I shall put the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: For 51, against 96, the abstentioned one, did not vote 40, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. (Employer Mircic advertises the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4088	Mr. President, you obviously have different arches. When it comes to MPs from the SRS, you have a clearly crystallized view of how radicals should be prevented from speaking from this pay phone, and when ministers such as Minister Batic appear, there is no criterion there. He can say whatever he wants, he can show whatever newspaper he wants, and he can advertise all his products. On the other hand, I would ask you, as an MP, don't take it personally, in the future when you say something, and you think it's funny, tell us to laugh too. It's a little awkward, you say, and you laugh on your own.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4089	You'll laugh tomorrow, when you figure it out. The amendment was submitted to the 11th National MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a final law that shows what the DOS government is up to and what the government thinks about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. By reading this law, you get the impression that taxpayers are enemies of state number one. That the whole goal and task of this government is all to capture them, all to pick them up on a pile and everyone to cut off what no one had ever counted on them in taxes and what no one would charge them as taxes. Only on two grounds on the day of entry into force of this law will the peasants be drastically taxed, as they have not been so far. The first basis is that, according to Article 7 of the property tax, they have a five-fold amount of annual cadastrian income. So far, it's been a five-year amount of cadastrian income. The difference is big, you've been multiplying them by five for the last year, and that power that wasn't working, which was dictatorial, which was destroying the peasants, calculated the revenues of five years ago. Second, Article 11, you finally remembered that you tax the peasants and the houses they live in. So far, in urbanized villages, a flat-rate amount of 200 and a few dinars has been paid for the farm house. Now he's got taxpayers coming to write down his house value and charge him taxes. So much for your story that the villagers will live better when the DOS is the government. He's saying we're gonna pay less taxes, it's not true at all. If excise duties, sales taxes have yielded a result by which the minister says prices have not been increased, and traders know very well why they have not been increased. Because the margins came down to zero, so that someone, even if someone went into the store today, could buy something. Or, with this power collection, it won't be able to sustain it anymore, it'll show itself. The property tax is clear and loud. So far, property has been taxed with 0.3% of the value, regardless of the value of the property. Serbia's poorest citizen is now at the base of 0.4%. So the tax rate is 33% higher than the poorest citizen. No basis, no amount, tax rate. That should be explained by the minister. How does that help citizens by increasing their tax rates? I asked the amendment, under Article 3 of the amendment, for the rate of tax on agricultural and forest land rights, the basis of which is determined by Article 7(1), to mean that without keeping tax books, it remains 0.3%. The bill is to be 0.4%. Once again, 33% higher and again to the peasant. It seems that some experience from the time of sanctions, blockades, bombings is taking over DOS's power and is about to prepare for it, and since you've taken over all the factories and there's no production with them anymore, you're preparing for the peasant to resuscitate the state. I know why there are no ministers in today's session. I thought they weren't interested in this session. No, I don't. They're ashamed that we're adopting this law. Apparently, only ministers who aren't ashamed came to this session. Those who really don't think about how tomorrow the citizens will welcome them when these taxes come into force. Hurry up, ladies and gentlemen, you who don't read these bill proposals at all are not familiar with them until you hear our amendments. You're in a hurry to pass these laws, so that some of the proceeds can be leaked back into the state register. Serbia is flooded with bills, still valid so-called. Old bills of 50 and 100 dinars, as painted as yesterday, printed as much as yesterday. As of five days ago, Serbia is flooded, and I only have 50 dinar bills in a limited amount, but old 100 dinar bills are also printed. I ask Mr. Finance Minister, where did this banknote come from in Serbia? If the old money changes, so I guess the new bill is printed, the one that will be able to get a loan for the apartment by the end of the year, as promised to us by the governor of the NBJ. Where did these bills come from, and where did they come from in the Rasko area, who buys foreign exchanges for them in the name of the NBJ? A lot of things, very suspicious, have been going on lately. You, dear gentlemen, colleagues of the DOS will still be able to show your arrogance for a while... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... finishing... Press a certain button on the voting machine, as a rule on the button opposite of the one we are pressing, members of the opposition. It's your responsibility. The property tax law hits where a man is weakest. None of us can tear down the house, no one can start their house, no one can fire my father's house, no one can give up the stock he bought, got or bought at a discount six or seven years ago. You've come up with a lot of things that haven't been taxed so far, to be your source of income. The charge will go very hard, I assure you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4091	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4092	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we can differ in the policy that we are conducting, we can interpret certain events differently, but we must not make fundamental errors in interpretation, i.e. in interpreting legal proposals in front of the Assembly. In this way, we are misleading the MPs, and by misleading the MPs, we risk making decisions that are wrong in themselves, given that they have been made on the basis of superficial arguments. So we have repeated several times during today's debate of examples that point to the original policy of the Republic government and the laws behind which we, as a parliamentary group, stand. We insist on social justice, we will insist on that justice at all times, including what my predecessor was talking about. So, as far as immovable tax is concerned, nothing was made any difference compared to those most vulnerable layers of the population. The same tax rate of 0.4% was retained. Tax rates change compared to the tax rates defined by the previous government, only in cases where the property of those rich layers of our society is taxed. It is natural for those who have a burden to bear in the name of those who do not. I don't think there's any point in overexplaining everything that's been said here today, but I would ask those who criticise the bill to do so on the basis of the arguments. So if we speak on behalf of those most endangered layers of the population, those who do not have to pay, it's time to say that they are burdened to the same extent that they have been burdened so far. So all real estates worth up to 6 million dinars will be burdened with taxes in the same way that it was in previous years. Change occurs in situations where those who really do have additional burden. Those who have a value of over six million dinars. As far as peasants are concerned, there is really no basis for such a type of criticism, because they will be taxed on catastrian income that has not been re-valorated since C96. A year. So, in particular, it's not about the government trying to take from those who don't, but it's about the government trying to respect the principle of social justice, fill in those empty spaces in the budget that have to be filled in if we want the state to function. No new taxes. Only taxes have been exchanged, taxes that have existed so far and we can honestly discuss here, and we can also discuss the foundation of our intentions. It is not right to criticise the administration that is talking about today's burden on taxpayers, in terms of inflation that ate that burden, or at the age of 98. You're like the government of c98. On average 50% more burdened society than we do now. This has been proven in the presentation of MP Popovic and that is what we can talk about. Of course we're not counting on the inflation that devalued what we're doing. As for, say, cars, on average 38% less burdens we transferred to taxpayers than the Government of Mirko Marijanović has done since 1998. It's the same with the real estate tax. So there is no change for those who are in a real bad situation. Those who have a share in the name of those who don't. It's the principle of work we insist on, and we don't run away from it. But not by taking those who are already discouraged.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4093	Mr. Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4094	I don't know if your advisor and I are reading the same material. But Article 7(1) provides that the base of the property tax in agricultural and forest land, within the meaning of this law, is to be the five-fold amount of annual cadastrian income from that land. Given that this income, after that, is not set aside at tax rates, I guess now its rate is 0.4%. The rate, until this law came into force, was 0.3%. That's 33% increase in tax rates. Furthermore, for you now there is a house on the village property that needs to be specifically taxed, past the estate and beyond the Catastrian income. So far, that wasn't the case. It's not worth telling here stories that don't have papers, and the papers are clear. You increase tax rates, you expand the base of taxation. There won't be a citizen who won't be taxed. I've now agreed with the story that you're making here - that one who has a higher value of paying taxes progressively, and I didn't foresee with my amendment, as it has been so far, that at any value of the property there is a tax rate of 0.3%. I predicted 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, but less than you, Mr. Jovanovic. There's a reason. In many of our villages, go from Pogorec to Žabara, head to Majdanpek, Kučevo, especially eastern Serbia, you have magnificent houses. People worked abroad, made houses, died, and their heirs didn't go abroad, they have huge houses, they have no income to support these houses anymore, not to pay you taxes. Their value is enormous. There was a competitive spirit. The neighbor lifts the ground floor and floor, he lifts the ground floor and two floors. The neighbor does the left wing, this one raises the right. MPs from those parts know that it is a competition, construction workers, wedding players, and who will go to eastern Serbia to earn money. I accept that. That's how the people live. But tell me, what should this people do with their house now? He can't pay your taxes. Are you making him turn it on so he doesn't pay taxes? Maybe someone will come and assess the value of the incinerated property. That's why I think it's an inhuman property tax, that it could be much more humane and bring more funds into the budget than it will bring.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4095	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our problem is that the government does not want to stimulate the construction of houses in both the city and the rural areas. The government is destabilising the construction by increasing the tax rate. I will never oppose anyone's intention to tax the richest houses in the city center, on Dedinj, in similar places. In Batajnica, you can tax, and you won't worry me about it. Yeah, these 50 million you gave me, I'm going to go to Dean Popovic's tomorrow to pay for it, because if you claim to follow me, I have to take that money and take over. The essence of your tax policy is kidnapping. Of course, like Cedomir Jovanovic just now, you are ready to compare the current situation from previous years. But always forget that over the past years, we've been under sanctions, blocked, we've had to bend over and invent what we could still pay taxes without it hitting the poorest layers of the population. There was this idea of taxing cell phones, which was mine. But three years ago, very few citizens had cell phones. It's mostly what citizens of good property had, more wealthy citizens. Now it's already something that becomes a natural need for everyone. In the early '60s, television was the biggest luxury, and today TV is no longer a luxury. You are now doubling that tax, i.e. seizing the double tax against the 1998 amount. Why? Because then it was an emergency, and now it shouldn't be an emergency, because now there's no sanctions or a blockade, and it's about to be six billion dollars in aid from the West. That's the point. Under conditions of war, blockades, sanctions, destruction, a huge number of refugees, the loss of Western Serbian countries, the state had to seize from who it could have been kidnapped from, to finance state needs. Now there's no roadblocks, there's no sanctions now, there's no war, and you're used to kidnapping, so you're more hijacking and you're constantly calling -- here, now you've introduced a tax -- and before that was, it was just a tax. Where's the logic? I guess by winning your five-eyed bulldozer revolution and falling sanctions and blockades, there's no reason to be kidnapped anymore. Now you have to prove that economic policy of yours in action, which you preached while fighting for power. And now that you've taken over power, you forget everything you've promised the citizens in the election campaign, you've completely given up on the declared economic policy, you're going back to an old traditional economic policy that was extremely deformed in the conditions of sanctions and blockades, and now you consider it the greatest achievement, only you're further perfecting it and adding to what anyone remembers. Here, if it's up to it, I'll give you a few more ideas. I always have inspiration. Bring in the tax-painted male hair. Whatever man paints his hair, seduce his tax. Here, Minister Schumarts, one tax for dyed hair, another tax for paint mustaches, because he didn't paint them in the same color. It may seem grotesque to you, but when you start taxing everything in order, tax your men's hair, because you'll only have it among DOS's. Those who paint their hair are not among normal people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4097	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4098	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think I need to point to an irregularity. I believe she's the result of the oversight. In fact, there was no earlier tax of 0.4% for immovable property, but the tax you spoke of, Mr Nikolic, referring to 0.3%, was a property transfer tax. It's always been a tax base of 0.4% for real estate, with there being no difference in value, at a rate, compared to the value of the property being taxed. As for the logic that led to these taxes, in terms of listing the reasons that led the previous government to introduce taxis and taxes, the consequences remained, the consequences and sanctions and the blockades and the war that was waged on the premises of this country, of course the consequences of the policy that you have been conducting. These consequences are very serious and they drive us to finance and reconcile those state needs that are real. You're not going to see anywhere in budget spending an item that, in itself, is not rational. All we intend to do with the funds received from taxpayers is meet the needs of society, meet the needs we have talked about several times, and that makes sense. Every serious country is very seriously approaching the creation of fiscal policy and the most serious is that society, where the most rigorous punishment is for non-respect of tax policy and therefore the seriousness of the society in which we live, is best told by the information regarding respect for tax policy by our predecessors. So there's no increase in the rate of immovableity tax, but it's a real estate transfer tax of 0.3%, and that's information that talks primarily about the consistency of what we're saying here, as representatives of the government that proposes these tax reforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4099	Is anyone else applying for a word, according to MP Tomislav Nikolic's amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. Please state by voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4100	I'm closing the vote. For 60, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 18, and a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to Article 11 was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4101	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that the DOS government has announced in a pre-election campaign that it will continue the tax policy of the previous government continues to perfect new ideas on what else could be taxed, including ducks and painted male hair, and so on, DOS could never convince the people to vote in the elections for it. You continue to develop what was a matter of urgency in one period and lead to unprofessional proportions. Now it's far too pronounced and intolerable. It was even unbearable before, now there's already been a shooting. No one can take this anymore. That's the point. You're constantly justifying your actions with a state of mind. It can't drink water either, it doesn't drink water. You would have changed the situation long ago if you had kept your pre-election promise. You promised six billion, otherwise no one could vote for your pre-election program. He always seemed unrealistic to every serious economist. You can't change anything overnight in this country, but patiently, step by step. Instead of going patiently, step by step, you're increasing tax rates and introducing taxes and where no one has ever thought of being introduced. That's the essence of your economic policy. You know, it could've been done like that before, and it's been done for a while. How long? To that point of extreme tolerance. That dot is now crossed. Now you're introducing taxes that you know in advance that can't be charged or that a lot of them can only be charged once. Introduce taxes that no one can charge, no one to charge. That's the point. Smart tax policy would be based on a reduction in tax bases, in order to increase the number of taxpayers, you by increasing the number of tax bases, reduce the number of potential taxpayers. The logic in which the darker DOS tax policy opposes any more serious theory in economic policy, in financial policy. I know Minister Djelic had opportunities to check his projects. He was checking in Russia, and we found out from the papers that he was even an adviser to Anatoli Chubis. That economic policy broke down there. Such an economic policy has broken down in Poland as well, and as far as I know in the Czech Republic, many economic experts are getting hair on their heads when they only think of Minister Djelic's economic projections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4102	If no one answers their words anymore, I'll put the amendments to MP Pelevic. For 62, against 109 abstentions, there were no 16 votes, and a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4103	Mr. President of the Assembly, you should not be surprised that we MPs of the SRS are going out with the Witness to this assembly summit - first, MPs of the SRS and second for the president of the Assembly. He's working under a lot of pressure and pressure, and we don't know if DOS will liquidate President Vojislav Seselj, and when he will. Also, for us Serbian Radical Party MPs, it is difficult if we run out of party, we will not have a base, and just as Mr Djindjic, Batic... (incomprehensible) and work daily to break up the Serbian Radical Party. That's why we Serbian Radical Party MPs have to show even here to DOS MPs and to fence...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4104	Mr. Keseiæ, why don't we stop writing those papers for a while?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4105	So, this very painful and difficult work on the preparation of the amendments for the government to be approved, to force the villa to reduce the people of Serbia, and this very law on property tax in the right sense is a force on the villa. This is where taxes are practically introduced to citizens in apartments, bedrooms, living rooms, everything that Serbian citizens have to own. So it's called an insolence on a villa. Article 12, which I have submitted to the amendment, speaks of another form of intrusion. It speaks of city building land where the total area of the building plot, i.e. 10 acres of building plots, is freed from the tax rate. This article clearly shows how much the Government cares about, or what it does about the holder of ownership. In this case, this law, therefore, favours state and social property with this member of the tax exemption. Article 12(1) speaks of state property used by state authorities, organisations, local self-government and territorial autonomy. There's no point in talking about private property. So, if one of the private entrepreneurs wants to build a green belt, the space for performing certain functions that are normally done in pre-school education institutions, that private entrepreneur will have to pay taxes, while local self-government, or state organisations or other state-owned organisations, will be exempt from taxes. So that's what DOS majority and DOS government recommending as in the pre-election campaign, the conduct of a transparent tax policy, wants to carry out this law, but at the expense of private entrepreneurs. I'm afraid that the funds that go into state property, or social property, would end up the same way you've always criticised. Therefore, by this amendment to Article 12, I propose that the words "10" be replaced by the words "15" for the reason that an increase in the area of city building land on which property tax is not paid would be in the function of facilitating the economic situation of citizens and difficulties in business of economic operators.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4106	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 103 abstentions, there were no 39 votes, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4107	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the property tax law is not yet a drop in a full glass, because tomorrow, when we continue with the Tax Act on Use and Keeping certain goods, then on financial transactions, on a profit fund, then the citizens will see that little remains of what the Government has not taxed with its tax code package and which will not be one truly unbearable imposition on the impoverished standard of our citizens. But regardless of what has been said so far, and above all, in support of this government's failure to manage incomes that citizens will make and whether they can do it at all, as well as economic operators. The fact is, she didn't go out with the packages of some new laws at all, but she packed the old ones a little differently with much higher tax rates. Obviously, there is a claim that there is both the Minister of Finance and the Economy and the entire government, to go before the Assembly and the public, to the god of some proposals of laws in which there are many original solutions, many good solutions, simplifications, and above all that they are in line with standards dictated outside, from the European Union countries, above all. What I have proposed concerns one category of people, the citizens of our country who are not covered by tax incentives, and I ask this amendment to add another point to Article 12, which reads: "And the owners of apartments that have three and more children who have not turned 18". I think it is necessary for these parents and hosts of these families to get tax reliefs on immovableity because they are in a difficult situation with three and more children anyway, in a situation of a difficult social situation where no demagogy spoken from this pay phone has good intentions and will do everything in our country to rule over social justice. We can only do that, ladies and gentlemen, when we allow these parents to work and earn a decent salary. In a situation where we have only a lie and deception since the five-octobar revolution, starting with the famous video of Mladjan Dinkic immediately following the incursion of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, that in the country will come honey and milk, as everything is beautiful and colorful, it even seems to me that birds cricket with these videos, houses are built, loans are for real estate, for apartments, cars are bought on many monthly wars, that is, for many years, for a long-term period with minimum interest. Turns out there was nothing and it was all just a lie and a delusion and I think this government should have in mind and informal reasons when it proposed such a package of tax laws. There are rules to regulate fiscal policy in one country -- it's a law, that is, a set of laws that you are proposing to us, but informal rules primarily involve morals that clearly authorities now do not have in Serbia and the SRJ at all. You from the Serbian government show it here every day, and you obviously have a total moral erosion, because if you didn't have this kind of attitude to put citizens in a situation where they barely survive, and when the data on how much profit is compared to 2000 doesn't mean anything, when we've had so much price hikes, so much cost increases, when we're threatened with an increase in electricity price, and already it's not just 60%, because it's not just a pool of total percentages, it's much more. You're going to end up with that goal you've been set outside, which the vice president of the federal government didn't hide, that for a kilowatt, we're going to have a price of 5 cents. So I think you should take a lot more care of the most endangered layers and the spread of the tax base to make sure that such social categories are protected in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4108	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 58 MPs, against 106, there were no abstentions, 23 out of 187 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 56 MPs, against 115, there were no abstentions, 19 of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. I find the MP George Mamula withdraws his amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 57 MPs, against 116, there were no abstentions, there were no 18 votes, out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Here you go. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 11(2), says the property tax does not pay the immobiliser the right to real estate under Article 2 of this law in the event that the total basis for all immovable property of that rightholder does not exceed the amount of 250,000 dinars. The legislator obviously doesn't realize it's about dinars. Because, realistically, there is no real estate of 250,000 dinars. That's about 8,000 marks. If there is, there is in the ten thousandth case, and this tax exemption is actually demagogy. I suggested that the untaxed amount be increased to 600,000 dinars, which is about 20,000 marks, which is more realistic and would only release those poorer parts of the population. But I'm sure you won't accept that, because, as far as I can tell, for those poor people, you don't really care. Because if you cared, when you had already raised proportionally to the richer layers of society, tax base and tax rate at the same time, then for these poor, you could have completely abolished them. Or symbolically taxing them at 0,10%. No, you've kept the old one, and I see that you're very well-behaved by the table you got before the beginning of the session in which it stands - answer the question like that and so, to the value here and here, give value here and here. But the one who was counting on you didn't really know the bill. In 1998, maybe that was the case. However, inflation from 1998 to 2000 cannot be used, as my young colleague said, that it represents a special tax, but it does not represent a special tax. That inflation is that in 1998, under the pressure of sanctions and everything that was there, we introduced it. You didn't go to the election in 1998 but in 2000, and as a rapper you should take the values of 2000. And in 2000, everything was less than in 2001, which you are now introducing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4110	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 58 MPs, against 120 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 12th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4111	Mr. President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12 where I propose that a new position be added after Article 7 which reads "The property tax referred to in Article 3 of this Law is not paid on the part covered by the immovable tax laid down in Article 2 of this Law". You have heard my argument of the amendment to Article 3 and now I want to repeat my question asked by the minister, which was said - whether the adoption of this law means that the property taxed by Article 2 of this Act and which is owned by the company will be re-taxed as share capital or co-owned by a member of a shareholder society. I didn't get an answer to this question. I would ask the minister to give an additional explanation before the vote, because I believe that this will put many company owners at risk, whether they are private entrepreneurs or social property. In fact, we have more examples that the founding bet appears two or more times with multiple companies. This is especially the case in major social firms that are organized as holding companies. They're going to have a problem dealing with those obligations, but I think this is going to be an additional imposition. When it comes to private entrepreneurs, this would mean one call and a signal that all private entrepreneurs need property to point to a personal name, not a company. I think the goal of all these measures is to motivate private entrepreneurs to acquire property and run it as a company's property. They're closer to control, more accessible to taxation, and I think you should seriously consider before pressing the appropriate button on the taster.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4112	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 60 MPs, against 115, abstentioned 6, did not vote 10, out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm probably the last speaker, so I'd still like to hear from you a little bit. I have proposed this amendment to Article 12. The proposal for a property tax law, for the following reasons - that in Article 12, after Article 7, a new position of 8 would be added, which would read: "The property tax does not pay even the right to real estate for the period of service of the military time". Let me explain this a little bit - a person who is on military service is unable to pay taxes on real estate rights for a period of time at that service. That's why this person needs to be released from paying the property tax. Furthermore, I want to explain this a little bit more -- good hosts in Serbia, especially we Serbs, we're a little vain when it comes to male children, so heirs, we all want to build up something for these sons, or leave them with property, so it's not a rare thing that boys from 18 to 20, who are standing to serve a regular military deadline, have already entered property in their name. I think it's absurd that during the service of the regular military period they pay taxes, that is, it wouldn't be humane for anyone to pay taxes, even if that person were able, or parent, to do so, to pay taxes for a soldier. I think that for human reasons we should accept this, knowing what these guys did in 1991 to 1999, and that many of the sons of us present were in the army, and at least they deserved attention, if nothing else. And finally, I want to underline that -- given that some young people have deserted as military bonds, walked around the white world, paid no one, they now enjoy all the rights, even in a more privileged position, but if we, to say the least, were to feel sorry for the young men here, at least for the duration of the military term, we'd get rid of the property tax. As always patriotically defined, members of the Assembly Club of the SSJ ask you through me to accept at least one amendment at the end of today's session, or to repay these youngsters by taxing on property, at least while serving their military term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-17-0.u4114	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He's not answering. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 83 MPs, against 89, with abstentions 6, not 9 voted, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This concludes today's work. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 156 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Branko Besevic, Dusan Prophetovic, Bojana Aleksic, Dragan Šormaz, Sredo Mihajlov, Istvan Išpanovic, Velimir Živojinovic, Jovana Todorovic, Jožefu Kasi, Vlastmir Budimovic, Radoslav Veseinović, Jelena Milenkovic, Nedi Arnerić, Vladan Jovičić (before noon), Dragan Rafailovic (before noon), and the delay was announced by Pal Šandor and Cedomir Jovanovic. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Before we continue the search of the property tax bill, I would like to inform you that the session of the Finance Committee will be held at the 48th floor on the 2nd floor at 11.00 hours. We're going to go to 6. Point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF INSTITUTIONS On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
