ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 129 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic system, we have a quorum and we can continue to work. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Stevan Lilic, Vladan Jovičić, Boris Karaičić, Nada Kolundžija, Pal Shandor, Sreten Mitrovica, Srdjan Sikimić, Juhas Atila, Teodora Vlahović, Neda Arnerić, Sava Popadić, Milena Miloševic, Zaharija Trnavčević, Pal Karolj, Jon Cisamaš, Zoran Boskovic, Bojan Kostreš, Istvan Išpanovic, Branimir Trajkovic and Branko Beševic. In the morning Nebojsa Lekovic and Petar Misic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to item 4 of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE DECISION ON ORGANISATION AND THE WORK OF THE SERVICE OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The People's MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12224	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with Article 88. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I propose that the time of presentation of the People's MP for the fourth item of the agenda be five minutes, since the decision is ahead of us, which is governed by professional and other affairs for the needs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's quite enough time of five minutes for anyone who's interested in the MPs to participate in this item of the agenda to express their views on the proposed point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12225	Thank you. I am putting forward a proposal from MP Aleksandr Radosavljevic to declare that the debate on the fourth item of the agenda is limited to five minutes. I ask the MPs to declare by voting on a proposal from the MP to limit the discussion to five minutes. For 111 against 14, a abstentioned one, was not voted 23, a total of 149 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to limit the discussion at this point in the agenda to five minutes. You have received a proposal for a decision from the Administrative Board. You have received amendments submitted by the People's Parliament of Professors to the proposal for a decision. Borislav Pelevic, MP Radojko Petrovic and the Administrative Committee. You've received reports from the Legislative and Administrative Committee. According to Article 153(2), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Here you go. The President of the Administrative Board, Mr Goran Vesic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12226	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will briefly try to explain what is fundamentally changing in this decision. Most of the things that change are actually harmonising with positive legal regulations and harmonising with new terms for certain bodies that exist in accordance with these regulations. The basis for this decision is Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Article 221. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that the National Assembly organizes its work and organization. The idea with these changes was to remove certain difficulties that occurred in the work of the National Assembly. Namely, the services of the National Assembly, the office office, as well as other services were under the Department of Joint Affairs of the Republic Authorities. The amendments to this decision will take place within the Assembly and their commander will be the secretary of the National Assembly. In this way, we will allow the congregation to perform its function in a much better way because it will all be in the congregation itself. I would like to emphasise that the proposal for a decision has not changed the basic institutes, meaning the definition of bodies and services, categories of jobs and tasks, but only certain basic solutions from the existing decision and certain redistributions within the National Assembly's service have been carried out. In addition, this amendment brings the decision in line with the amended legislation in the meantime. Finally, I would like to say that for the past 10 years, it has shown that it has been much more comprehensive and practical for all the services of the National Assembly to be within the National Assembly, because in a much better way their work could be organised, that their commander would not be outside the congregation, someone who was in another building, someone who had no daily insight into the work of the Assembly and daily contact with these people. As far as the amendments are concerned, you have received amendments to the Administrative Committee. They're mostly technical. So, based on some of the mistakes that happened in the basic text. You have also received three amendments - Amendment Professor Pelevic, who was accepted by the Management Board, and this amendment is essential. I'd like to say why we accepted him. So far, difficulties have arisen in the work of the National Assembly for the reasons that certain parliamentary groups have requested that some persons come to work in the parliamentary groups and be employed in the National Assembly. There was a problem when, after some elections, certain parliamentary groups no longer have a parliamentary group and those persons had to be deployed to other functions. Mr Pelevic proposed and we accepted that the Administrative Board of each parliamentary group, based on representation in the Assembly, set certain funds. On the basis of these funds, each group will be able to hire the independent persons it needs to work in the Assembly. Those faces will be at work in the parliamentary group. Of course, after the term of office of the Assembly has ceased, she will return where they came from. So she will not be employed in the National Assembly, and the parliamentary group will be able to determine on its own how to dispose of these funds, whether to employ one person or more. So it will determine on its own which people will assist them professionally, how much they will pay on the basis of the funds set by the Administrative Board, which we find quite logical. As far as Mr. Petric's amendments are concerned, we did not accept them because they are contrary to the applicable legal rules. That was why we didn't accept them. That's one amendment. The second amendment regulated all parliamentary groups to be equal, but the funds that are being received are determined on the basis of their proportionality and that is why we did not accept those two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12227	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Nikolic, your word has been taken from you. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: You have no idea. I need you to consult the secretary. Please be careful how you express yourself. According to my records, you've been stripped of your word during this session and you don't have an authorised representative. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure, since your word has been taken from you. Please take care of your language. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk letter, Gordana Pop - Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12228	Madam Chairman, if you, or anyone else sitting in that seat, knew the Rules of Procedure better, the situation in parliament would be much better and the tension would not increase to that extent so that you would have to say a measure of distance from the session. You're playing with the MPs and their rights. We already know what's coming. We've received a proposal from the Rules of Procedure that you're preparing for the National Assembly. We see how restrictive he is, we won't even be able to go out for a pay phone. The people, apparently, sent us here just to press the key. Here, let me remind you of article 105: "The measures put forward by the President of the National Assembly are applied as a search takes place on the agenda point in which they are spoken." That agenda point has passed, and we've moved on to the next item of the agenda. Both of the measures you've said, and the president or the chairman, have ceased to apply. Tomislav Nikolic has the right as deputy president of the SRS Parliament Club to go out for a pay phone on behalf of the parliamentary club and take his stand on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12229	I find that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, Mr Tomislav Nikolic has the word, as a representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12230	Whatever my time is running, I warn those who care about the work of this assembly, that I have proved and removed that breach of the Rules of Procedure, when the search on the agenda was completed - the choice of judicial and public prosecutorial functions. It doesn't make sense that every day I advertise the same violation of the Rules of Procedure and that you always admit that you've made a mistake. It's been removed the last few days of last week. I really expected that you would not make such a mistake at all, that is, I expected the secretary to tell you that I am right, and he is silent there and acting like he is God’s day in this congregation and waiting for us to remember that the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not. It is the responsibility of the secretary of the National Assembly to help you not to sin, not to help you to sin. If that's what you're getting at at all. We today have an seemingly harmless agenda point, which did not deserve the attention of the extraordinary session, but filled the gaps in the agenda, created by not agreeing on an emergency session properly. There is, in that decision itself -- it's so vague, let's say, this Article 2a, that you don't even know how it's going to be applied. Now we've heard the latest, most additional explanation that's just led us to doubt what's going to happen. A new parliamentary group is being established, she needs an expert associate with whom she has confidence, you say you have the means to pay for that expert associate, but bring him for a certain time, so when your parliamentary group's mandate expires, let him return to where he worked. By law, only persons elected to certain functions can provide themselves with the status of a working relationship. No one else has the right to do that. We cannot withdraw an expert from one company to the National Assembly, who will be employed here to do the work of a parliamentary group, anyone, so that the employer undertakes to take him back when the need for his work in the National Assembly ceases. Only MPs, secretary, deputy secretary, and perhaps someone else, in any case, who chooses the National Assembly, provide this right. He can't have an associate of the parliamentary group as a functioner and he can't rest his working relationship. A serious question arises: will MP groups be able to have equal and equal status in this assembly or not? Of course, there is a possibility that the party's parliamentary group will bring its co-worker. It's something the Rules of Procedure can't regulate. Then just provide funds to the parliamentary group for the associate, and let the parliamentary group use those funds. Either he'll have a paid associate or he'll be without an associate, but the person you're telling is that you've secured equal status, in this sense, as we heard this morning, cannot be provided for the work of the parliamentary group. If you receive a permanent, permanent working relationship with someone who only performs jobs for an MP's group, the question is, what about it when the need goes away, when there are no MPs, when the results happen in the elections that someone who had 10 MPs in the parliamentary group, now there is no such thing. So, he's completely undefined this attitude and the amendment hasn't fixed it. There's a question of how it's going to work. That's not settled at all. Only if parliamentary groups accept co-workers from the ranks constantly employed in the Assembly. You will allow one opposition parliamentary group to have no confidence in a permanent employee, recommended by the leadership, especially the technical leadership of the National Assembly as we now have. It is the right of the opposition to have no trust and to have certain rights. These rights come down to what she had at least so far, which is that there is one secretary of the parliamentary group and at least one expert associate who has a law school and who can help MPs draw up good and bill proposals and amendments to the already submitted draft laws. The second problem is the proposal's problem. Indeed, the executive power takes over one legislative function at a time. Now he's taken over the Administrative Board. Our chairman of the Administrative Board is a person of executive authority, and that's impossible. It's impossible for a person in the executive board to be president of the Administrative Board. He can't be an MP either. It is incompatible, the legislative authority and the executive power are incompatible. The minister can, no one but the minister can be in the executive power and be a representative of the legislative authority. Even if you respected the positive regulations, you'd owe all those faces we see on TV as representatives of the executive government, as various advisors, assistants, deputies. Deputy ministers, assistants, advisors can't be... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... (I can use another time) People's MPs, and in particular they can't be board presidents. We had a case where a former minister insisted he be chairman of the board -- we barely decided on it. In this session, you have a case that one DOS assistant insists that she be chairman of the board and you barely deterred him from it. This latest blow to the Administrative Board, in which the Executive Authority directly took over it, is the preparation for the application of the new Rules of Procedure. Preparation for applying new rules of conduct to opposition parties. It is already seen by the first decision, which has been resolved by one of the Social Democracy MPs. On the basis of a provisional solution from the executive government, one ministry, the Administrative Committee here has resolved one MP, trusting its minister who will be the chairman of a particular political party, although the Administrative Committee has been silent for several months at the request of the same political party to resolve some other MPs. Although the party also held a congress in the meantime, the executive authority intervened and she claims who could be an MP and who couldn't. This cannot be done in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is a major blow to the legislative authority. You don't want to be aware of that. Many are unaware of everything that is happening in the country. You who are aware, you close your eyes to what is happening. It's no good, it's no good. If, at a time when you were the opposition, a proposal such as this was submitted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the world would be ruled by chaos. At a time when Milosevic was trying to introduce a kind of dictatorship in the country, in defense of those who would be threatened stood the entire Western world, all the so-called Western democracies. Now these Western democracies dictate to you how you're going to run a dictatorship in this country. What's this about? What is executive power in this country now? Everything and everything. How much you attacked the government of Mirko Marjanovic before the radicals entered, because it ruled only by regulations. Can you sign that it is not already a three-digit number of regulations by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, two of which are oil and tobacco monopolies, the most drastic examples of the executive power taking over the legislative function. You have a regulation that has 50 points. We have shorter laws than the regulations passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the Administrative Board will appear in the role of defending the proposal for a Rules of Procedure that comes from the same brains, from the same heads, from the same profile, which is to contain as many opposition as possible, as possible to suppress parliament. He who suppresses the opposition's work in parliament, he suppresses parliament. Parliament does not show one who has a majority, but one who does not have one. It is very difficult to be an MP for the majority. Sometimes you don't need to go out for a pay phone at all, because everything's said and you're just waiting to vote. That is why there are MPs of the opposition who want to participate in the work, especially SRS MPs who have closed all the media that are being financed by citizens; this is the last medium, this direct transfer of the Assembly, which is being financed by citizens and which you will close for the SRS. Then don't brag any more, don't drill, don't mention the word democracy ever again. Democracy is not what you claim to be, democracy is not what America claims to be democracy. Democracy is the behavior in which we all recognize ourselves and you don't have to underline at all that it's democracy. If there were democracy in this congregation, you wouldn't have to point it out at all. Everything would be clear. So I invite you to think this through. This decision is not the basis for discussions on the Administrative Committee, but it benefits MPs well. We will experience much worse from the Administrative Board than it was one night when we were stripped of our immunity and taken to prison at three o'clock. This Administrative Committee is prepared for much more serious violations of both the Constitution and the Law and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12231	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? If not, I give my word to the MP Ljubo Drago Grbić, and the next reported is Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12232	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an act on the establishment and independence of the professional service of the National Assembly and the interruption of its direct degree with the state administration for us is a significant document in the process of building the autonomous position of the Assembly and supporting the principle - who is passing the laws cannot judge and who judges cannot execute. In addition, first and foremost strengthening the legislative and control functions of parliament, the New Democracy believes that further quality reform of parliament and parliamentaryism is necessary, i.e., in a narrow sense, modernisation and organisation of the functioning of Parliament itself. In that sense, I would like to say a few words to this good story about some of the basic directions of Parliament's reform that we have prepared as initiatives and which, in accordance with the legal framework and regulations laid down by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, we would like to refer to the Assembly these days. First, we consider it a whole and important establishment of a congregation centre for information and research and documentation, i.e. an electronic communications centre of the Assembly, whose essence will be offered today. It is, above all, the construction of the Internet and e-mail (e-mail) link between Members, the web site of the presentation of the Assembly, committees and MPs, maintenance of internal and internet forums, consultation and conferences. This includes the formation of dislocated parliamentary info centres for each member of parliament in its electoral space or region designated as the seat of its parliamentary work. The Center of the Assembly would be linked to databases in the country - university, military, library, MUP, European Union etc. Secondly, for professional jobs to be carried out for parliamentary groups and MPs, which fall within categories of intellectual services or political consulting, frameworks would be set for the practicalisation of some more flexible legal models, such as out-of-house employment contracts, copyright contracts, marketing, political consulting. Thirdly, much wider opportunities are needed, both scales and a more free model for the formation of expert advice, special advice, ad hoc committees, experts, governmental, non-governmental, independent, with the possibility of using and modeling volunteer consulting work, especially for MPs, with these modest elementary compensations. Fourthly, this parliament will very soon come under the obligation to build a model of parliamentary but autonomous independent councils, committees, experts or the like. For example, for independent expert budget control, as an independent committee of auditors, a national board for the control, evaluation and accreditation of higher education institutions or the like, taking over competence over the board of public administration and so on. I'll name one particularization. Who, for example, would be a student, a knowledge leader, a volunteer, engaged through student associations or cooperatives? Dear colleagues, there will be a period ahead of us that will require us to present the initiative and the possibility of self-gathering citizens' opinions, we make so-called. MP interviews with many users of government programmes and laws, law enforcement polls, parliamentary case studies, etc. Many young people could affirm themselves with us as volunteers, our associates, and therefore fellow Members of the congregation. In the end, I would like to state that the New Democracy will advocate professionalising the work of all MPs. Parliamentarianism is the essence of responsibility and ability, and Serbia needs a professional parliament. I hope that these initiatives will become our common initiatives, through dialogue and partnership, to the extent that raises the ability, the reputation and stability of our House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12233	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, and the following is Mr Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12234	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to comment briefly on this proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to Article 2 or the amendment adopted by Professor Boris Pelevic. If we look at the motion for an act, or decision, it reads as follows: "Employment groups at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia carry out their own professional and other tasks for their own purposes". That seems quite logical at first sight, but that would mean that those people who are hired to work in parliamentary groups, which are mostly administrative workers and part of the professional staff who provide professional assistance, would be out of work. In that case, what would happen? Approximately the goal was the following - a number of people, who are party activists of DOS parties, and do not have employment or work practically for their parties (which has proved to be through previous practice), would be paid by the funds of this assembly. I think that's the point, and that's the explanation that we got with the bill, it's hardly possible to get a transitional grade. It is said that the equal fate of the persons working for the parliamentary groups is related to the fate of these parliamentary groups. Practically, getting out of this assembly, they should stay on the street. Is that humane and is that doable at this point? Certainly not, given the overall economic and social situation in the country. If there was too much need for labour and labour in the market, surely that we would be taking on for those experts and for those people, but now leaving someone without a job would be really inhumane. No matter what political goals these parties have achieved. On the other hand, I believe that opposition parties in the Serbian Parliament would also be placed in an unequal position, as the allocation of funds for their work would be practically limited by the ruling majority's will, so that we would be fully dependent on the ruling majority's will and I think it would make it extremely difficult for opposition parties to work in this assembly. That is why I will repeat once again the content of the amendment, which is - a parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to carry out professional and other tasks for its own purposes, alongside employees of the National Assembly who are assigned to work for parliamentary groups, can hire other persons. The involvement of other persons is certainly not intrusive and will certainly contribute to better and better quality work. But at this point, we believe that these people who work for the parliamentary groups are neither superfluous nor heavy. That's what this proposal is all about. We believe that the Administrative Board has done well what this proposal has adopted and has, in practice, classified it as a proposal for text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12235	The word has a National MP, Mr. Stanko Kovacevic. The next is a folk letter, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12236	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I think that by putting the agenda of this Decision, the National Assembly is one step in uniting all professional services in this building and under the supervision and responsibility of the people involved in the work of this Parliament, and that certain functions carried out outside this Parliament, in the executive, republican authorities, must be separated from them and put under the hat of this Parliament. It's a good thing, because then we'll certainly be able to track the work of these professional services, and also be responsible for their work here, for who they work for, and not for other organs. Proposal included in Article 2. The proposal for this decision and the adoption of amendments to MP Pelevic - I think it is a very good solution, because it avoids a problem that could arise from possible engagement, indefinitely, some consultant or consultant. I think that the remarks made for this speaker, by one MP, that it is difficult to find such expert advisers or consultants who would be willing to come from a company or institution to a temporary work at an MP's club, do not stand, because, in accordance with the applicable Labour Relations Act, there is one provision that speaks of the possibility of a worker to leave for a certain period of time from the company, without compensation for personal income or absence with the remuneration of personal income. Therefore, any undertaking or institution willing to resign to a member of the parliamentary group will benefit from the Labour Relations Act clause and will allow a temporary expert to come to the parliamentary club of the Democratic Serbia Movement to work while the movement has its parliamentary group in this parliament. The company or facility from which it came is required to take it back. Therefore, an absolutely incorrect claim, made after this speaker, that the problems will not make it possible to find the relevant experts and consultants. I don't think we should spend much time on this subject, but to adopt the proposal for a decision as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12237	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. The next reported MP is Mr Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it has become clear to the general public that only Serbian radicals in the National Assembly have strictly adhered to the applicable rules and laws. What DOS is still current, government (but I believe, as most citizens, not for long) plans to do with such proposals and legislative projects, is something that shows us, and what I have said to the assembly speaker several times, that we have an autocratic authority, a power that behaves as it wishes, only because the game has given citizens the confidence to exercise that authority and what it has, now splits into several parliamentary clubs, a congregation majority of 176 MPs. Speaking of procedures, and speaking of such tyranny as is being conducted from the chairman's seat, which we have to correct by teaching you what the current Rules of Procedure looks like, because the one you propose (in the session session for Tuesday October 2nd, for a regular session, which we have just received, says that this session will only deal with your most demonstrative proposal of the Rules of Procedure that you plan to introduce) shows us what kind of authority it is, and since we are holding that procedure, you should have informed us, through the relevant assembly services, to change the chairman of the Administrative Board. It is now predicted to be a different name, but then you had to tell us that Mr. Goran Vesic was appointed representative of the motion, and not as it stands here - Aleksandar Krstic, who was president of the Committee, who for his known reasons resigned, in your staff's interpretation and the transfer of his MPs. One nonsense is in this proposal on amendments and additions to the decision to organise the work of the National Assembly, in a series of nonsense. The one most dramatic is the fact that MP groups will have the opportunity to engage their associates for a certain period of time, while the National Assembly's call continues, to perform certain tasks. The logical question is whether these people can do it legally, whether they, if they are employed somewhere, can take the unpaid (and can't do it by law), whether they can still have a working relationship (can't). Indeed, this raises a logical question - if you are used to putting your staff, candidates for MPs, literally collecting from the streets, in various cities and municipalities in Serbia and putting them on DOS lists or I don't already know what they're called, do you expect that such a serious parliamentary group as the SRS will accept such a single proposal and that, by handling your methods of working and such a way of recruiting people, you agree that in this way, there will be co-workers for your parliamentary club. The thing that hurts me the most is Article 15 of attitude 1 that changes this decision. This article discusses the achievement, which is otherwise the jurisdiction of the Administrative Committee, the rights of employees, or Members of permanent work in the National Assembly, and then, work in the field of employment for all employees and jobs in relation to what is said, by informing the local and foreign public about the work of the National Assembly. This is all said so extensively and globally to ask one question - who is it that will determine how the information will go to the local and foreign public about the work of the National Assembly, about what is being discussed here and what the MPs decide? We have so far, in addition to this thesis on autocratic authority, a series of opportunities to see how the President of the National Assembly, Mr Dragan Marsicanin, abuses his function. On several occasions, various printed and electronic media, Mr. Marscanin spoke falsely about working in this National Assembly, as far as the work of the opposition MPs he said would have to discipline them. In addition to that, Kostunica's proposal, namely the DSS parliamentary groups, a new Rules of Procedure, does not say that you will be able to shoot MPs in the National Assembly, to line us up here against the wall, if you do not like what we say. (President: Miss Jovanovic, I warn you on time and on topic. That's what a cat's chestnuts do. The people will probably see it. This is how those who agree with them that the draft agenda for the regular session does not go to some law and reform projects, which you promised and which will improve the difficult economic and social situation, do not go to Serbian radicals, which were submitted three months ago, that Dusan Mihajlovic, who is in close contact with crime, at the top of the criminal authority, is being removed from the post of police minister. (President: Miss Jovanovic, I give you the first warning under Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. ) Thank you very much for that reminder. I believe that you, Mrs. Micic, are as you are, can't wait to vote on this new draft of the Rules of Procedure. But all this fits in what we claim to be you and what, unfortunately, feels the vast majority of Serbian citizens, that the above authorities were not.... (President: Miss Jovanovic, I give you a second warning. ....................................................................................................... dictatorship, worst possible... in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12239	The word is by the MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12240	For now, those warnings are free, but you'll start yelling at us. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decisions on amendments and additions to the Decision on the organisation and operation of the Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that a significant part of the jobs entrusted to the administration so far are to be left to the unit service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, above all, to the activities of the financial and material, accounting, business of the economists, offices, expeditions, bureaucratic, stenographic, as well as jobs related to the use and maintenance of buildings, premises and equipment of the National Assembly. It may indeed be more comprehensive, more practical, perhaps this is the practice so far in the work of the Assembly, but I must say that I regret those people who are now going to have a new administration, because their head will be Georgia Maric, senior official of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the current secretary of the National Assembly of Serbia, a man in charge of helping the chairman not to sin, that the National Assembly be a mirror of democracy, that all MPs have the same rights and that it helps the president protect himself from the injustice he causes to lawmakers, primarily opposition MPs, and within that part of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs. I said a moment ago, not by chance, free of charge, because Miss Jovanovic received two warnings and it would cost about one salary. It is not disputed, but it is disputed not to punish MPs who do not come to work. Today, we may be 130, meaning some 70, 80 DOS MPs have not come to work at all and will not be punished, but the subjective evaluation of the National Assembly president will punish the MPs who bring up the truth, who present their programme, who point out and criticise the government for its work. God help those people to whom Georgia Maric will be the boss. On the other hand, adviser to the first Pendrek of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Zoran Zivkovic, means spare or second pendrek, Goran Vesic is chairman of the Administrative Committee. It's another attempt to control the National Assembly and that the cops or the gendarmes, there's one service they've now introduced, the gendarme service, so the gendarmes control the work of the National Assembly. I think it really is this time, because, if the law were respected, Goran Vesic could not be not the chairman of the Administrative Committee, but could not be a MP. On the other hand, I ask that the National Assembly declare whether Goran Vesic can be a national MP, given that he is an adviser to the interior minister and whether, as such, he can be the chairman of this committee, who proposes such changes. For a time, I thought that these uninformed and confused would respect legitimacy and legality, to advocate it, since the head of their party and the current president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia insisted, however, when I saw a proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, it was clear to me: there are no longer any of their pre-election promises, but perhaps some uninformed and confused people, people who know less about them, still believe that. We in Nis know this long ago, and especially after the latest events related to Milan Lapčević, a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia's General Committee and his abuses in some of the jobs related to his former job, which we will discuss more at local press conferences. It's about events at the Char Sports Centre, where members of the Democratic Party of Serbia are involved, and where there are really some things where there's undisciplinedness, where we see something that we thought was adorning some other political parties, and this time we know it's the Democratic Party of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, and this is one of the unnecessary proposals, which might be good, if it weren't for him to be, I mean, unnecessary right now. It could have been considered in a regular session and it might have been good if the head of this service would not be a function of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Geogrija Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12241	We're out of press releases. Mr Branislav Ivkovic, president of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12242	It's not good when most people have no sense of responsibility for the functioning of the entire system. It's not good when most people estimate that they don't need to ask a minority about anything she wants to do, act, plan, change, perfecte essentially or in the sense of a quote. Most people need to know that they are responsible for the whole system and that not including the minority, its knowledge, its assessment, its experience, is essentially working against themselves. This item of the agenda and the convened session of the Second Regular Session shows how much most of them have swept into fame and power and in the view that it can arrange everything and that everything that is governed normally is only right and until then nothing was right. It's not good that something, which is essentially a good move, is done and proposed without involving the minority. Nothing would cost the DOS majority if it asked the opposition to give its representatives to conduct offices within the Serbian Parliament and, I say, create a certain autonomy of the Republika Srpska Assembly's authority over the executive power. If you had called, we would have given our people who know how to do the job and probably some solutions would have been more precise and quality done. A more recent example, an example that is real for thinking, is the decision by Mr Marsican to convene the first session of the Second Regular Session, which was tabled by the Democratic Party of Serbia's MPs to discuss the Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you, this same president of the assembly, sitting at this table, he called a working group that had the first meeting without a DOS representative, the second meeting with DOS representatives, each parliamentary party gave its representatives to work on improving the Rules of Procedure and we got a cartoon from democracy, we got one dictatorial Rules of Procedure, which we're going to talk about next Tuesday. Now on the agenda point: - the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group welcomes the idea of the autonomy of the legislative part of the government, and in this sense we absolutely support the idea that the Assembly authorities have significant autonomy in relation to the executive power. We are giving support, because these days we see the terrible interference of the government in this country, especially between the executive and the judicial authorities, so at least that the legislative authority is held outside the executive authority. In this sense, the Socialist Party of Serbia welcomes the essential idea that congregation authorities have full autonomy in terms of executive authorities, excluding, of course, those notor parts of services, such as restaurant and drivers. However, I would ask the chairman of the Administrative Board to listen to me, Mr. Vesic, as I would like to point out some things, because I would like to have a certain understanding. You see, by doing this part of the job and fighting to achieve the autonomy of the assembly bodies, I think we're stuck in the autonomy of employees now in parliamentary groups. What's this about? Our MP, Petric, I think we should consider it one more time. She had a group of five MPs, 15 or 50, there are jobs that must always be done. And these are jobs from mail receipts, mail distribution, information transfer, security from the Serbian Parliament's documentation of important data for the preparation of lawmakers for the debate, to the fact that MPs must have knowledge from past legislative solutions to prepare for a session on some future solutions. So there must be a lot of jobs that are always there, regardless of whether the parliamentary group has five MPs, 15, 50, 100. It's just that these jobs have to be done. I would therefore ask that once again the validity of the amendment of MP Petric be measured, because he suggested that the Administrative Committee distributes 1/3 to all parliamentary groups, because this is the scope of the work to be done, regardless of how much the parliamentary group is. And then, 2/3 of the funds to go towards the number of MPs, because, normally, the more MPs never do, the greater the volume of work, the distribution of materials, the transfer of information, the provision of relevant data from congregation files. That's the one thing I'm appealing to here from the parliamentary group. Secondly, the position of employees now in the parliamentary groups has practically remained under question. These are all people who are employed in the Serbian Parliament. You're not saying that if they give themselves up after this congregation decision has been adopted, they'll suddenly be at a certain time? We're assuming that's not the case. So, if they stay with the staff, that's one correct relationship with the people who are there. So we appeal to accept the amendment of MP Petric, simply because there are jobs that must be done, regardless of whose groups, and therefore it is proposed that 1/3 of the funds go fixedly to everyone and 2/3 to go towards the number of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12243	Thank you. The word has its People's MPs GordanaPop - Lazic
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we, the MPs of the SRS, are not particularly interested in this item of the agenda, in the sense that we now arrange for the parliamentary majority to organise the service in the National Assembly, but we must point to something contrary to the law and motives that led to this motion for a decision coming before the MPs. This famous member of 2a, who allows MP groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to organise their own professional and other tasks for their own purposes, leads me to think, in addition to the fact that mines know how many employees there are in the National Assembly, that the existing nomenclature of employees in the National Assembly does not correspond to the parliamentary majority, that they do not trust the people they found in the National Assembly, so now they want to bring some of their likes from the street, and they do not need people with special working experience, because both in the seats of ministers and ministerial assistants sitting people who have one year's internships, and they have not finished a trainee exam yet. Therefore, it is not a matter of bringing now people who know the profession and helping MPs and MPs to work better. It would be better to think about how to help MPs, who have lost the opportunity to return to work where they came from, therefore, who do not have a regular status, because, let's say, they were MPs of the Federal Assembly before that, so they are one year out of office, and now they do not have a regular status, and our Administrative Committee will not employ these people on permanent work in the National Assembly and thus virtually prevents them from having their constitutional right to establish a working relationship. We force these people to report to the Employment Fund fictitiously, practically, and the Assembly pays everything anyway, pays their full salary, pays them contributions to pension- invalidity and health insurance. The assembly is not at any loss, but it will not start a permanent working relationship with the MPs. It is a lack of goodwill to help MPs and MPs in some way. And this right here is one of the most common farces. On the other hand, it would also be good if we knew who was responsible when the MP asked him for what he was allowed under the Rules of Procedure, as it was on the agenda when we talked about the choice of legal holders. Ambassador Petar Jojic asked the Justice Committee to look into the material, to see if there was an opinion from the judiciary's college on each proposal, he also addressed the president of the Assembly in writing, and the chairman of the Justice Committee, however, did not get it. And nothing to anyone. We already see from this proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, which you have delivered to us, what restrictions follow. Do you really think that you will scare the Messengers of the people by taking away their wages, when you consider that you should give them a warning: 20% for one, 50% for two warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12245	Mrs. Pop Lazic, that's the agenda theme next session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12246	Take away words, one salary, away from the session, two salaries. Well, we didn't come here, gentlemen, because of the salary, we came here to protect the interests of the people who brought us here and we can work without pay, we can give up those wages right now. You will not drive us out of the National Assembly in this way, nor will any of us be afraid to go out for the pay phone and say what he thinks, and stick the label to you, as you deserve. There's no "d" from democracy in everything you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12247	I give you my first warning, because you don't stick to the subject, despite my warning. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanović (by the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to ask the chairman that, since it is obvious that most MPs are not here, and not only are they not coming because of the diaries, but they are not coming at all to do anything in the Assembly, to establish the quorum according to Article 93. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12249	I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into their MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum, even though the MPs of the SRS who asked for the quorum to be determined did not insert the identification cards. We have another announcement on the Business because there is a National MP, Gordana Pop - Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12250	Madam Chairman, you waited a minute and a half to determine the quorum, which means that during my presentation there was no quorum in the Assembly, which means that the Assembly does not work when there is no quorum, because Article 80, paragraph 2, is quite clear and says, "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if there is more than half of the total number of MPs present at the National Assembly session." We made sure, at the moment we asked for a quorum to be determined, that the quorum did not exist. That is why I ask you to allow me to speak again and withdraw the warning measure, because I was saying this clearly in the wind, since the parliamentary majority was sufficient for the Assembly to work did not exist in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12251	At the time you were saying, when MP Goran Cvetanovic asked for a quorum, the quorum existed, and you can check it in the stenographic notes. There were 135 MPs. I was not even obliged to determine the quorum, because according to Article 80(5): "If the MP raises doubts about the existence of a quorum established by the use of electronic voting, the President of the National Assembly shall put into account the computer copy of the present Members of Parliament." So I didn't even have to determine the quorum, but I made your wish. Another word from the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, is that you cannot speak twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12252	Madam Chairman, these 135 MPs are these cards to you in MPs' units, say in the third row, in the fourth row, these are MP cards that are not present, which means that someone is obviously misusing their cards. As you are already reading the members of the Rules of Procedure, let me read to you Article 113 paragraph 2: "For a MP who uses the identification card of another MP" (which is an obvious case), "or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the president of the National Assembly proposes a distance from the session". Therefore, I ask you to determine who has placed these cards in the MPs' units, who is responsible for this and to give him the distance from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12253	The cards you're talking about aren't even registered, so you can check that with the service. You can see it on the monitor yourself. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12254	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to speak about Article 93. Rules of Procedure. We lost one working day because of the quorum, and the biggest culprits are MPs from the DOS, because there are 176 of you and you have an obligation, as do we from the Serbian Unity Party, to attend all the sessions, not just to come in the morning, to sign up and come in the afternoon to pick up the journals. That's one thing. Secondly, a large number of municipality presidents come by official car to the session, they take money for travel expenses, and instead of investing it in the county's jury account where the presidents are, they put it in their pocket. At the next session, the Serbian Unity Party will say what people are. These people make an average, with their diaries and salaries in the municipality, over 70,000 dinars, because 2,400 dinars are travel expenses with diaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12255	Mr. Markovic, your exposure does not apply to Article 93. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12256	It's about the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12257	You can only object that there is no quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12258	We don't have a quorum. Every working day we lose two or three hours due to a lack of quorum. I want to tell the citizens, in addition to this, how much DOS lawmakers earn, and they don't respect the money they take from Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12259	Right on line, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12260	Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you to return to the agenda. I would advise Mr. Markovic to use his television, so that on it, rather than in this transmission, it is false because they are the untrue feature of the program he controls. You have the least right to speak about how the MPs are financed, because before you say you've funded yourself over the past ten years and how you've made a financial empire in a failed country. Don't hold our moral sermons here, let us work because there are conditions for smooth work. As for Mrs. Pop-Lazic, she wasn't in the O.R. when she spoke. Believe it is possible in parliament, since you did not register at the time. However, I remind you that we will not allow the destruction of parliament and I urge you to contribute to a concrete debate with arguments. Thank you. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12261	You can't, you're the one who caused the replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12262	Mrs. Micic, I really don't understand your behavior. You have been warned several times by the SRS MPs, first of all by Mr Nikolic, that you must strictly stick to the current Rules of Procedure. This miracle that you're preparing, we'll see how and when it applies. Mrs. Micic, be patient, don't make such a revolt among the MPs, you are a hated figure in the Serbian public anyway. You're violating Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the way in which the Members of Parliament's rights and duties are exercised. You're distracting us in our prescribed possibilities to exercise the rights and responsibilities of the MPs of the people. That member was violated by the moment you threw Mrs. Gordani Pop-Lazic from the chair's post that you knew why she appeared second time after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you couldn't possibly know. A completely different personality, some completely different IQ must sit in that place to penetrate the thoughts of Gordana Pop-Lazic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12263	Mrs. Jovanovic, I give you a second warning because of the insult you have done to me and take care of how you express yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12264	Well, that's all you can do. You learned that in eight months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12265	Ms. Jovanovic has advertised the violation of Article 1 which says this rules of procedure regulates the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the rights and duties of MPs are exercised. What's wrong with that? It is true that these rules of procedure have indeed established rights and obligations. You understand: Article 1 states that these rules set out the rights and obligations. Is it true that rights and obligations, rights and duties are established? (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Read. It would be good for you to respect them, and we would be much more efficient in our work. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12266	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise Rules of Procedure, Rule 99. Mr. Jovanovic has mentioned the last ten years, as well as what I've been doing. I've been a private contractor for 20 years. You're the second Marko Milosevic. Marko Milosevic is 12 years old, his father was in power...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12267	Mr. Markovic, I give you a warning about the insult you have made to MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12268	You are the second Marko Milosevic, you have ten suits, which cost from 1,300 to 1,700 marks, you have two jeeps, Mr. Jovanovic, you have 20 security guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12269	Mr. Markovic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, and in fact, you're using the right to replication. In doing so, you have re-provoked the right of replica, so it has the right to the replica Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. That, using the right to do so by the Rules of Procedure, was caused by Dragan Markovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12270	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to use my right to reply once again, if not to all of you, and then at least to that reasonable part of this House, and I would ask you to return to the debate. I didn't know the gentleman my fellow MP mentioned. I can't tell how much I'm like him. Let him judge the public. All you said as an argument is a lie and it speaks much more of you than of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12271	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12272	I think the person currently running the National Assembly is constantly hurting the Rules of Procedure and Article 99. I have to explain this briefly. In this way, you are in violation of the basic human rights of the National Assembly, Mrs. Micic, at least the right to be equal in front of you. You have not told the president of the DOS parliamentary group a single reminder, yet he has told the TV, whose editorial policy, or Mr Markovic, is that it is a television that sows lies. It's normal for you. If a representative of the ruling majority comes out, so everything he says, that's normal, that's true. As soon as an envoy who is not in power, who is in opposition, comes out, you wait for every word he says. Mr. Markovic compared Chad with Marko Milosevic. You say it's an insult, Chad says it's an insult, I think it's an insult. Rather, Dejan Mihajlov could now be Marko Milosevic. Before, before, because Mom's here, she's not on the other side. The one that's got a cat on the constitution, it's Mom now. Well, if you're going to allow insults, schedule one session on Tuesday, where MPs are going to insult each other, insult each other, turn off the transmission, make a sheet here, tell each other everything, so when the Japanese beat the figure of directors in the break. When we get out of this room sweaty, calm, orderly, adrenaline okay, we finished the job, he told everyone what he thought, and we move on. You provoke us opposition MPs to say in much rougher words, much rougher ways, we say what's holding us back, just so it doesn't turn out to be something we're afraid of. I wasn't born, I wasn't raised, I wasn't raised, I was raised, I wasn't living in an environment where harsh expressions are used, too rough. I must do it here, as must all MPs of the opposition. I want to tell you that I have no reason to be afraid of you. Your threats from this pay phone don't touch Serbian radicals. You can do anything, they told you, you can do anything. We will answer the harshest words, words we wouldn't use if we were in the majority. Because that's what you're looking for. Each and every one of you here, here's Milcoky. He doesn't represent anything in Serbia. Why is he throwing it at me? He's capable of coming out here and threatening. Who's he threatening? A representative of the SRS? Well, our life for 12 years is a fight for better relations in Serbia. Sometimes on one side, sometimes on the other side, it doesn't matter at all. Where the hell were you, Milka for 12 years, building a house on the street during... (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic, you've come out to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's past time, I understand your explanation. )......................................................................................................... while we were at war. So please, Mrs. Micic, I understand that the sensors for the insults, the injuries, the deviations from the agenda are kept on uninterrupted. And when the Messenger is in charge of the voice, and the apostle is an opposition to the voice. If you only gave a warning once to anyone from the ruling majority, I'd go out for a pay phone and say you're not as bad as I say you are right now. Since you'll never do it, because you can't do it, you're an MP here by chance. A little bit from the West...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12273	Mr. Nikolic, if you're finished, it's the fourth minute, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've come out to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you're knowingly violating it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12274	Then I remain with the claim that whenever a Martian cannot continue the session, he puts greater evil than himself there. The greater evil is Natasa Micic, vice president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12275	Mr. Nikolic, what can I say to you, you yourself have admitted to using offensive terms and lies here. Of course it obliges you to be told and warned. The other thing you said about this speaker was that I didn't give any notices to the MPs of the DOS. Check the service and you'll see that you're wrong. I'm sorry, maybe you weren't there. The fact that you're getting more notices and more measures, as far as you're concerned, is for the simple reason that you're experts at everything, you report for 23 for each item of the agenda. You said yourself that you have to insult, to challenge, thus leading to the fact that you have the greatest number of warnings. You challenged, Mr. Markovic, you just reported in the Rules of Procedure, twice did, and you challenged the replica Mr. Jovanovic was right to. I give the word to the MP Slobodan Pavlovic, and the next one declared for discussion is MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really disabled right now, I signed up 48 minutes ago, and after all that's been said, obviously, I won't have the conditions to say everything I intended. I will not mention to the people Mark Milosevic or compare anyone with him. I didn't even sign up to insult any of you. I don't know, really, how many Mr. Ceda Jovanovic has jeeps, suits and everything else. I don't even know who has 37,000 salaries from MPs, as Mr Markovic claims. What I know for sure, and that is what I said at the beginning of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that is, to remind you, that this item of the agenda that is now under consideration, so the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as those of the previous four points, to remind you, is similar to that of the people's "during the house burns, the grandmother combs the wool", and this debate today proves. So this wasn't, by content or reach, the reason for calling and considering at an extraordinary session. This is not, of course, a system law, nor a decision that will solve all the issues that we have in the functioning of parliament. But in any case, although technical, these solutions can lead to some unfavourable opportunities for the functioning of parliamentary groups, parliaments and services served by MPs and parliamentary groups. I must say, first of all, I am looking at it in the spirit of whether we are from that point of view, about the organisation of the service, are equal as opposition MPs and parliamentary groups. I must tell you that some solutions do not go in that direction, although what is a representative of the Administrative Committee, or President, Mr Vesic explained what the Committee's position might in some way remove what I wanted to criticise and suggest other solutions. First of all, I'm thinking of Article 2a. and to Article 18. Prof. Dr. Bane Ivkovic expressed his view of the SPS parliamentary group, and SRS MPs also said. Our MP, Peric, will especially explain his amendment to this article when we hold a discussion on the details. I think that the parliamentary majority, i.e. the Administrative Committee, should take another look at it and I think there are conditions to accept this amendment, which would also eliminate these criticisms that we are referring rightly to, not because of criticism, but because of the equality of the positions of all parliamentary groups, and especially opposition groups, in the work of parliament. In that case, I think the SPS parliamentary group can also accept a decision in general. Another member or second remark - I did not submit an amendment to Article 18, and apparently I made a mistake, perhaps I should have done so. But since I haven't, I'm asking the Proposer or the Secretary of the Assembly since he's focusing here. Article 18 reads: "The takeover of employees in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be agreed between the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the director of the Board of Joint Affairs of the Republic of Serbia". So, it's about the obvious takeover of the National Assembly, so it's the employees of the Department of Joint Affairs. My question is whether this should apply to other republican authorities and institutions, which are not in the Department of Joint Affairs, and perhaps there are such cases, and if there are, they should be sanctioned, and whether this also applies to the period to come and that workers of other authorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can also be taken over in the Service of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12277	The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic, and the next is Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in relation to the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the Organisation and Labour of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to point out: First, our Parliament would have to truly become the most important institution of government and political search and decision-making in the state order of our republic. This Parliament should and indeed represent the bearer and expression of national sovereignty, and it must concentrate legislative authority. Secondly, parliament must educate its auxiliary working bodies, whose task it must be to prepare proposals and to pre-examine many issues from parliament's jurisdiction so that parliament can work more effectively. However, there is a tendency that these bodies decide on certain issues, i.e. to search the so-called. small parliaments and decides beyond parliament, and parliament serves only as a cover. Third, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, our Parliament is not sufficiently adapted to the reality and needs of a parliamentary, democratic, dynamic and modern society in the emerging circumstances. We must not allow parliament to be closed from the public's eyes and that the western state of government and its regulations, because otherwise, our parliament will lose sight of the importance it should have in this time. As in other countries with a perfect parliamentary system, our parliament must be a modern institution of democratic society. Its historic task is to become this, because of its enormous importance for the Republic of Serbia, and it is necessary to turn parliament into a decisive factor in the legislative authority. Fourthly, our parliament, and all the auxiliary bodies and services, must be so organised that MPs are given maximum working conditions in order to successfully perform their functions. Therefore, all services that will be available to parliament must be elaborated and organised in the best possible way. I especially have objections to two addresses where I was speaking both in writing and verbally. To these two addresses, I have requested that, as a MP, I be delivered an opinion on the choice of legal holders. But to this day, I didn't get that information because the Justice Committee refused and disobeyed it, as if I hadn't asked. If the MPs had received the opinions of the collectives and colleges of the courts and the opinion of the Ministry of Justice and the collectives from where the candidates came from, it would not have occurred to us that people who do not have the most essential conditions for setting up and choosing the most responsible judicial functions in our republic. Therefore, it would not have happened if we had people in the judiciary who had passed six in law school and studied between 10 and 15 years of age, not those who had excellent grades and were professional and capable. I believe the government knows that in courts there are both professional and capable people with deep experience who could take certain positions. It would not have happened, nor would the MPs have voted then, if they had received information on all candidates in good time. So, it's hidden, and we haven't been able to give a complete assessment and consent to the selection of individual candidates. (President: Mr. Jojic, please return to the topic. ) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out this: a delicate question is being asked - can such a serious matter be left to the Secretary of the National Assembly and to the Director of the Office for Joint Affairs of the Republic Authorities, to decide for themselves on the deployment and takeover of workers. This issue has such weight and importance at this time and many are concerned about their existence and survival in the National Assembly and in the services, and should not be. Here, the competent working bodies of the Assembly must participate and decide, for abuse and overrule will take place. I fear that at the expense of the employees, some things will happen beyond justice, which would absolutely be a mistake for this parliament to do so. As for Article 8, where the cabinet of the President of the National Assembly, the preparation sectors are formed, there are three sectors: the sector for preparation and processing of the National Assembly sessions, the sector for the work bodies of the National Assembly and the sector for organisational and administrative affairs. I believe this is massive and that this will only multiply the administration, and in no case will it benefit so much or help the efficiency of Parliament's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12279	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Janjic, and the next one has been reported with Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12280	Give it back, I haven't started yet. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, immediately after the constitution of this assembly, you changed the Rules of Procedure, believing that you would close your mouth with these restrictive Serbian radicals, not to give the people what authority you are. Since you failed after four or five months, you've been naked for the rest of your life. Your impious actions are every time a radical goes out behind a congregation pay phone. We tell citizens exactly what kind of authority you are. Now you've spent a lot of money, because it took days to adopt this Rules of Procedure. After a few months, we will again for days to fulfill your musical desires, now the new rules of procedure, even more restrictive, with even more restrictive provisions. I don't know if you've predicted a death sentence since the European Union is asking you to lift it. By your rules of procedure, you shall search for 20 years of imprisonment for the messengers who bring forth the truth about you. (President: Mr. Janjic, I warn you to return to the topic. ) Mrs. Micic, the topic is what the citizens of Serbia are asking us to do. You'll be writing these papers all the time, and that Rules of Procedure that we bring won't suit you, because no matter how much you punish us, we're going to use more fire to open our eyes to the citizens. Instead of discussing now what drug-mafia, in conjunction with the state, with state authorities, harra Vranje... The crow has become Colombia for the Shiptarian Narcosy. (President: Mr Janjic, I give you my first warning and remind you that you have come here as an expert to discuss the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the organisation of the work of the National Assembly Service. You can give me ten warnings, but I'm more concerned with the children of the Pcinian County who are being attacked and subjected to the fact of narcotics than with these worthless papers of yours. One child's life in the Pcinian County is worth more than all of what you're saying. The line of state and the Ship's Mafia is such that it's inappropriate. (President: Mr. Janjic, I give you a second warning because, despite my warning to return to the topic of the agenda, you continue to speak beyond the subject. Then I deserve a third. Instead of discussing why the flag workers are killing themselves after your actions at the flag, we're talking about some Rules of Procedure that doesn't serve anything. Is there a third or should I extend? (President: Mr. Janjic, you know how to put a point on the agenda, so suggest, and now you've come out to talk about this agenda point. We made a lot of suggestions months ago, but they never came to the agenda. It is important to you that the gentlemen of the "silver affair" - Karleuša, Mr. Count, who was protected, and the other participants of the "silver affair", whose criminal acts there is evidence in the court of Vladic's Han, remain protected. You've blocked all the media. (President: Mr. Lamb, I take away your word for it because, besides my petitions and warnings and two warnings, you still spoke beyond the subject of the agenda. Please leave the pay phone. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12281	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12282	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 99. Mr. Janjic also began to talk about the agenda point, and you insulted him and challenged him to talk afterwards about everything that kept him down and why he couldn't keep his mouth shut as a people's messenger. Of course, you MPs did not listen carefully, but I listened carefully. You insulted the Messenger Janjic because you threw him while he spoke, although you have no right to do so. You told him, "Mr Janjic, for this speaker you came out as an expert, to talk about the decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the organisation of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." Ma'am, or Miss Micic (you do not look like a lady to me), for you Mr. Janjic is a folk MP. He is no expert for you; he is for you a person whom the people sent to this congregation to speak of points that are on the agenda. It should be an expert sitting on your left. It is, with the secretary of the Committee of Points which is on the agenda, the only professional person who participates in this debate in any way. Your expert can only give suggestions whether the MP has or is not entitled to indicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. For you, Mr. Janjic is not the expert who went out for this pay phone. I ask the National Assembly to give the measure to the lady or to the lady (before the lady, I do not believe that someone has sinned) Natashi Micic, first of all, and then it will affect you, Mrs Micic, that when you see the back of one MP for you, he is a National MP, and you are not interested at all in which group of MPs he is from.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12283	First, I'm obliged to answer. For me, Slobodan Janjic is a folk MP and I think I gave him a compliment by telling him. I think someone, every time they answer a word, is an expert in the area, on the subject of the agenda. I was just saying, you've reported that as an expert you're talking about this topic of the agenda. Let me remind you -- one minute of discussion costs 1,000 dinars. So that's 1,000 dinars from a taxpayer. There is a way, and this is also determined by the Rules of Procedure, as it is placed on the agenda of the point that weighs you down. As MP Mr Tomislav Nikolic suggested that it be put to the vote whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure by making warnings to Mr Janjic... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: Because you threw it to him. ) Yes, as far as the discard is concerned, and that I cannot interrupt the MP, Article 98 paragraph 2: "No one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. "So I used my right. I am voting on the remarks of MP Tomislav Nikolic that I have committed a violation of Rule 99's Rules of Procedure. For 47, against 105, there were no abstentions, there were no 18 votes, out of 180 MPs, making the National Assembly decide that I did not commit a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP, Mr Dragan Colic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that today on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is a proposal from the Administrative Committee on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the organisation of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as something of vital importance to the citizens of Serbia. You didn't have anything else, so to fill the gap in the agenda of the emergency session, you put this point in. Our people say, "It's been born, it's worth rocking," so at least we, the MPs of the SRS, who are seriously accessing every item of the agenda, should say what we think about this proposal. If, on behalf of the promoter, the proposal was explained by Goran Vesic, no one else to the Executive Authority, then it is very clear to us that the executive authority wants absolute control of Parliament's work, absolute control of everything that makes up the National Assembly. For a moment, an uninformed person might think that you are Democrats who want to improve the work of MPs, especially opposition groups, to allow them the means to employ persons who would provide certain help in their work. What will happen to these people when the parliamentary group eventually ceases to exist, will they have a job waiting for them, and will the law guarantee them that? You're saying that the Secretary of the National Assembly, which is your picture and opportunity, will be assigned to the congregation's services. I can imagine what it will be like; a secretary who, when the MP speaks to him, says, "I will not speak, as if he were above the function of the MP, as if he were not the person to be appointed to serve all MPs of the National Assembly." He's not acting as Secretary of the National Assembly, he's acting as DOS secretary. It is your understanding of democracy, as well as all that you are preparing for a new rules of procedure that will significantly reduce the rights of MPs -- only restrictions, bans, no hearing for a difference of opinion, for an opposition opinion. You're not interested in the Constitution, you're breaking the laws, you're committing the tyranny of the majority, you can vote whatever you want. Whenever one of the opposition's MPs brings out something true, argued, that it hurts you, you use a voting machine, which doesn't even think about it, but is being trained by the executive authority. There's nothing of your democracy. You gentlemen are slowly seducing the dictatorship. You do not want an opposition, especially the Serbian Radical Party. The degree of democracy of a society is seen primarily in relation to political opponents. Your relationship with us, the representatives of the people, shows that we are about to have the darkest days of parliamentaryism in the history of this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12285	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vucic, and after that, MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must immediately say that I am not an expert on the internal organisation, but like any lawyer, with a slightly higher average than those you've chosen as judges and presidents of the courts, I think I might be able to discuss this subject without those who sit behind me trying to make fun of what someone is going to say. So, first of all, I believe that by this act and in the most controversial of Article 2a, we are making a provision that is not good for the National Assembly and that is not good for the Members of the People. It is not good for the simple reason that in the National Assembly, regardless of who is in power, there should be professional people, people who will be assigned to parliamentary groups and people who will do their job in the best way. So, if there is a need for assistance in preparing amendments, in any other administrative and technical work, these people who are most often in law school, who know how to do this job, are sufficient to do it for everyone equally, in a professional and professional way. I think that's what you said in the election campaign, and this article is about something else. This member wants power, he wants the regime to say -- no, we don't like those sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they're employees earlier, we want to bring in our own, some others, they'll be on the payroll, and then we'll even, in proportion to the number of MPs' representations, we'll determine how and how they'll be represented, or how many MPs' groups will have the right to bring their own people, or their members. It is something that again represents an exception and was not an example in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the past few years, those dictatorial ones, as you like to say. Here, democracy has arrived now, but this is becoming less and less noticeable, especially by internal acts, by the internal legal sublegal acts that we are bringing, which we seem to be at the heart of the citizens of Serbia, but, above all, by the MPs. What you've predicted as business solutions, people you know, I know your media is going to pass on everything and everything, what was signed by 40 and a few DSS MPs, it's one real disaster. It never occurred to anyone in Serbia to bring such a rulebook. It is one of the horrors that Serbian citizens will face, but in the next Tuesday, but people never thought of anything like that coming to anyone when it comes to this kind of internal legal act. Such restrictions for MPs, so as not to be elected MPs, are enough to elect the heads of parliament without the other MPs coming to the Assembly. Why the people chose us, we shouldn't be here. You can also, given the discipline in MP groups, bring in chips or those sticks that my son plays with when he counts and counts, so to speak, there are so many on this side, and so many on that side. Totally amazing and insane things seem to be. I see that some officials understand that, but I can't understand why they do it, why they do it in such a way and why the executive authority here interferes with decision-making through the representatives of the Administrative Board, etc. What's this about? I think that we also have to show this kind of internal acts of tolerance, first of all I say to the majority, to show tolerance towards the parliamentary minority, according to the parliamentary opposition, according to the opposition in the people, that they must have the same rights, and not less and not all are used, and even a relatively large number of MPs to determine professional associates, etc. Let's just see how work relations are regulated, where the internship will rest, who will take over the workers, how you'll get them back to other places, etc. We're making an extremely complicated procedure. It's understood by people who have been here in the Assembly, and there are also in the ranks of the government and the opposition for more than five or six years, who know it well, that it's a big problem, and I don't understand why we're doing it. I'd like to say one more thing about Article 15(1) that is changing. I'd like to refer to the work of informing the local and foreign public about the work of the National Assembly. If this will be done in the way it has been done so far, by only measuring how much Parliament costs, and reminding a MP who doesn't know it and who just said that 1,000 dinars cost a minute, an hour in the National Assembly, don't forget that with the exact same arguments, but these people should read books when it comes to the Assembly, Hitler and his National Socialist Party went out. I'm not comparing it, I'm just saying that some people should read books... (President: five minutes and 20 seconds. I'm done. So they'd have to compare that and know that that's not what they're saying. The National Assembly is the Supreme Legislative Body, the people have chosen us here and we have to discuss everything and it is much better to do it here than anywhere else and there are much less costs than any other state body. I would say something else, that precisely because of this, because of this kind of act, because of this heist that's being led primarily against the Serbian Radical Party, but also everyone who thinks oppositionly, it's no wonder the people started to think differently. Yesterday's election results, primarily from Bograd, but also from some other towns of Serbia, Užica, where radicals jumped by over 100% and DOS fell by a third, show what a people's mood is and how it will move. I would take the opportunity to thank all people for their trust at this time on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12287	I ask MP Vukic to take advantage of the opportunity and respect the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this fourth item of the agenda of this eighth extraordinary session is actually a patch of one time, which was supposed to be for the DOS majority, which was supposed to be measuring forces in the National Assembly and eventually showing to citizens that, behold, in DOS, everything is normal and all right. That is why this farce is, by putting on an extraordinary session of seemingly insignificant proposals, but in fact, in these insignificant proposals lies a trap that Serbian citizens still need to feel, and of course through their MPs sitting in the National Assembly, primarily opposition MPs. The proposal on the organisation of the National Assembly predicts largely that part of the work done by the Governing Body in the Assembly will be given to the authority of the National Assembly. But is that so? I think it's just written on this paper, and in fact, there's another game playing here. The Executive Authority shall fully assume the power of Members, i.e. the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. In this way, parliamentaryism is slowly but certainly leaving this parliament. Putting into the hands of employees in the National Assembly secretary of the National Assembly, who today is current here, is suicide for all employees of the National Assembly, because so far it has proved to be a completely incompetent man. The president of the Martian Assembly often had to run himself into the cabinet, bring the material that was necessary here, and he was ready to call, or for the agenda, you remember, it was on several occasions. Of course, you can't remember everything, you have a short date, where you need to think, but, remembers who's responsible for it. The most responsible for all of this is the President of the National Assembly and most of the MPs in this House, therefore, the people who enjoy incompetent people managing and working in the National Assembly. So, this proposal speaks of this, and especially the disputed Article 2a, which is constantly mentioned here, which indicates that the aim is to set up, in fact, MPs, opposition MPs, or MP groups of opposition parties, to be interpreted by the regime. Because how can it be assumed that someone will attend temporary work at the National Assembly when we know that this congregation will not last for more than a year? And as long as the DOS does not come down from power, no one smart will accept to come to temporary work in the National Assembly, when he knows that his job will be compromised and because a new law on the organisation of the National Assembly will be passed very quickly, and because he will be heard daily and overrun over his head by a secretary like we do today. That is why it is totally unserious to temporarily hire someone professional and capable of providing the right service to MPs, who would be truly professional.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12289	Please pay attention on time, MP Kesajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12290	Thank you, and you're really kind, because here, you see, I'm not thrown out, and I'm very surprised. The executive authority here assumes jurisdiction, but also, greater powers are given to ministers, who will manage through their advisers the work of the National Assembly. Such an illegal act will surely contribute to the work of the National Assembly even worse than it has done today and that opposition MPs, by adopting a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, will be in a position not only to be warned and expelled here, but possibly to be shot at. [[Employer from the O.R. asking for the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12291	And what is the basis for the replica? In geographical terms, we don't give the right to a replica, you know how many times I abstained when Vojvodina was mentioned, you don't have the right to a replica. The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12292	Dear People's MPs, we finally received a capital document, following the flood of reform laws that we adopted here in the Assembly and after the unremembered prosperity in the country of Serbia, we still have to arrange how porters will function, mailing, restaurant. So we've arranged everything, just to sort this out, and just now I see what was the real reason to call this extraordinary assembly, because that is, you'll agree with me, extremely important and important right now in Serbia. What did we want with this document? What did the promoters want with this document? They wanted, my God, to show the incompatibility of executive and legislative authority. But we should talk here about a slightly more dangerous phenomenon. We in this House, in these assembly benches, currently have many people who perform various functions in the executive government. So we have assistantministers, deputy ministers, various advisors, members, who knows how many agencies this government has already formed. I see in the announcement that we will just begin to form these agencies, and now, imagine the situation, a member of the government, a government adviser, should criticise the government's legal proposal in this House. If he gives me an example in the world, an example of a parliament where it is lawfully allowed -- neither of us, however, is legally allowed, but even so far, the Constitution and the law have not bound you to such a thing. Here, for example, Mr. Vesic, we all know that he's an assistant to the federal police minister, or an adviser, never mind, an advisor to the federal minister of police, and even though he shouldn't be a MP, he's also the chairman of the Administrative Committee. Come on, put your hands up. How many of you are in executive power? Many, almost all of you are deployed, possibly some aunt, grandmother, aunt, but that's the same, beware, you should now attack your aunt's aunt or sister's proposal. You have prepared us, however, in addition to this capital document, for the second regular session, autumn, as the only item of the agenda and other capital document - amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Five-six months ago, you changed your rules of procedure once before, and it was one of the most restrictive rules of procedure in all parliaments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12293	Mr. Veljkovic, you will have a chance to speak, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12294	In the context of this point, I'm talking about capital documents, after a series of reform laws, which this expert government has given, after a truly unremembered prosperity in this country, so this is very important, and I'm also praising the promoters and this proposal for a decision. So it's about in cycles about six or seven months, so you're going to change our rules of procedure, so about the new year. A few MPs said that, there may not be an immediate shooting, but between three and seven years, let's say, for starters, for the reminder of Ms. Micic or Mr. Marsican, that's how it's going to work. In the end, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously and today, it is obvious that whenever Mrs. Micic leads this Parliament's meeting, there are major problems, and as a reason I see, it seems that Mr. Marsican is hurt again and something should be done in that sense, because often the absence of Mr. Marsican is causing even more problems than when he is chairing this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12295	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12296	I won't be long for the impatience that exists in the congregation's majority, so this session will be over as soon as possible. The fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, and this item of the agenda, at least according to the way it was started, shows, in my opinion, a double person that exists in the congregation majority. In fact, the mouth is full of words, phrases, expressions, which speak of freedom of speech, democracy and so on, and at every step other arches apply. We have seen today that the agenda of the Serbian Parliament is an extremely important issue, and it is proposed that the debate of the MPs be cut short on this agenda point. Otherwise, this extraordinary session and this point would not in itself be controversial, and this decision, if indeed the proposal was to make an even more precise division between the legislative and executive authorities and within the legislative authority, resolve some open issues. It is not disputed that there is a need to align the provisions of this decision which regulate the work and organisation of the National Assembly Service, since some jobs, which were an integral part of the work of the National Assembly over time, have simply ceased, such as the work of the National Assembly delegation in the SFRJ Assembly, and there is obviously a need for certain provisions of this decision to be amended and brought into line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It is also not disputed that this distinction, compared to the executive power, is more precise, given all that the executive government is now doing in Serbia, this rule of law, making unconstitutional decisions, mixing in the work of the judiciary and so on. What's controversial, which shows this double archin, those two faces, which, in my opinion, is not the end of it. If it really wanted an independent position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the executive power, then this decision should have followed the principle to the end, not to leave part of the work in the responsibilities of the Board of Joint Affairs, but to uniquely address all issues of importance for the functioning and work of the Assembly. I have the right to doubt and cannot remove the suspicion that part of the work that remains in the Joint Affairs Administration may, by the will of the ruling majority and executive authority, which has support in the Serbian Parliament, be used for other purposes which, of course, meet the needs of the DOS. This decision puts the whole of the Assembly’s service into office of that parliamentary group, or that of the assembly majority, and in this case it is DOS, which will propose a person to be elected secretary. Why am I saying this? After this decision, we will have the practical inequality of all employees. If the decision is adopted, employees in parliamentary groups are put in a position to have an alternative to retain working relationship and the rights arising from this relationship or to be in a position to enter into a working relationship with the parliamentary group. You can imagine the situation these people will be in. If that changes, we, as a member group, will react differently. I am saying this because, if you really want the equality of parliamentary groups, i.e. the same conditions for the work of each parliamentary group, it would be logical that each parliamentary group, in accordance with certain criteria, has one, two, three or more persons working there, which are part of the work of the Serbian Assembly, and that, depending on the needs of the Assembly, that is, these parliamentary groups and the amounts of funds that each parliamentary group gets on the basis of certain criteria, the parliamentary group can hire a particular person. I am saying this for a reason because there is an objective situation that some parliamentary group in the next election will not meet the censorship needed to be presented in the Assembly. It is logical that if she was constantly employed in the congregation, it does not affect their working relationship. Otherwise, those persons would be brought objectively into a situation where their working relationship ends and thus the issue of their existence arises. I think something can be found in relation to resolving this issue that can be used by all MPs. I think the decision was to go to the end, in the sense that the National Assembly included this decision and those other important issues of importance for the work of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12297	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the draft decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is on the agenda. You see, ugly and sad things happen in this country in the Balkans today. After October 5th, you want to erase the past, to show the present, but you cannot erase the past, because the past is Dusan Mihajlovic, Gašo Knezevic, your past is also Prime Minister Mr Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12299	Mr. Zivanovic, what you're saying has nothing to do with the agenda. I'm warning you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12300	Your past is Mr. Joseph Kasa. So this is all in the past now, and the past is, in fact, to you and the present. In this home you can no longer tell the truth, because if you want to tell the truth, you have to get a warning or any other kind of ban on public truth, instead of dealing with problems in this home that this country is full of, and there are problems of business, agriculture, health problems, where you can no longer perform any surgery in health institutions and hospitals today. These days, it's a peasant strike. So, big problems, and you don't solve them. You want to hide the problems, because you don't have a solution for them, and that's why you're making laws like this that you want to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12301	Mr. Zivanovic, this isn't your press conference, I give you a notice on the basis of article 101, and I ask you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12302	The secretary of the National Assembly takes over not himself great ingenuity. Did anyone here ask themselves, I don't want to insult anyone, not even this man sitting behind me, is that man capable of taking on such a burden, that you want to place on his little shoulders? In fact, is this man medically, physically and mentally ready to deal with such problems? In the lead 15, i.e. in Article 8, meaning old Article 12, you are here organizing to take over and share all the information into four organisational units, which are- The Office of the President of the National Assembly, the Department for Preparation and Processing of Sessions of the National Assembly, the Department of Labour of the National Assembly, the Sector for Organizational and Administrative Affairs. See if you're going through the savings? Are you going through some kind of healing? Do you go through a quick fix to the problem? As you can see, you want as many of your subjects as possible to hire in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12303	Since there are no more registered MPs for the discussion, Mr Nikolic has the word as a representative of the parliamentary group, the third one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12304	Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate is in the end, I would like to challenge the law once again, and with regard to legality and morals, and with regard to the incompatibility of the legislative and executive authority, the right of the Administrative Committee to, presented to such a chairman of the Administrative Committee, deliver such a proposal to the Assembly. This is about the working status of many people, this is about who knows what else to come up with later in applying this decision on changes and additions to the decision. However, a clear question arises: does this proposal provide us with the executive authority, or does this legislative authority regulate how it will do its jobs more effectively and in the future? The chairman of the Administrative Board, the one who explained the proposal here, is the adviser to the federal interior minister. It means he's somewhere in the rank of a police colonel. To us here, the colonel of the police delivers a proposal that we will be working in the National Assembly in the future. You know, when the police suggest how it's going to work, wipe out the word democracy, then write another word. MP Vesic is the most irregular MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I understand that. He's got a lot of jobs at the police department, otherwise he wouldn't be away. Here is an opportunity for a man, a slightly different man than Mr. Vesic, to gain even a certain popularity. The question arises, whether the chairman of the Administrative Committee is on permanent work in the Assembly or in the police, as we will now ask for many employees, where they will have permanent work. As several MPs of the SRS, because of stubbornness and the exorcism of power, the dictatorship of the government, cannot be Members of the permanent work in the National Assembly, and the National Assembly pays them all the benefits of all obligations arising from the Labour Law. They just can't be called Members of the Parliament at regular work. If the chairman of the Administrative Board is constantly employed by the police, then he has nothing to look for in the assembly benches. I'm not going to give up any profession, but a public defender can't be a councilman, not a counselor, not an expert associate, not a department chief, not a chief of staff or any other functions. The colonel of the police, who works every day in the police, can't be a MP and can't be president of the Administrative Board. Can't people, how come you won't accept things? Let him be a general, I want him in this power as high as possible, because the people will remember him longer. If he read anything, he'd know what Mirabo said to Bomarsche. That's what I recommend to Mr. Vesic. You see in the future that you do everything in your power to let the people forget you as soon as possible, that the people do not sanctify you. It won't do us any good if regulations, decisions, Rules of Procedures are proposed by the Administrative Committee, whose head is the Colonel of the Police, or if I tell a representative of the executive authority. The executive power of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is permeated, one assistant minister of education sitting in benches. Is that true or not? We don't have to count at all, one is enough to change all relationships in the National Assembly. Guys, the law is clear and rigorous, I don't know why you don't respect it, so many functions have opened up in front of DOS and you don't have enough people. What do you need to duplicate, triplicate functions? It's enough function for all of you, don't break the law. We do not consider this proposal to be relevant in any way for consideration in the National Assembly. He could have signed it for us by Dusan Mihajlovic, Minister of the Interior... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... In the same way, (finding, thank you), in the same way as the interior minister's advisor. Why won't you understand that? What if it all changes one day? And what if one day you find yourself in a position to be in opposition? Whenever it was difficult to fight the Socialists in this assembly, there were no MPs of the Democratic Party. They preferred to obstruct the work of the Assembly. It's not true, but there were people here, it's not true that they brought people out of here the same way as you. It's not true. They've been forced into prison by a rebel against the government. It was a difficult time, and then people weren't involved in the opposition fight. No one but the radicals. I recommend you, you're on the zenith of power, you're falling down every day, you're thinking about it...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12305	Mr. Nikolic, I'm giving you my first warning about the time-out you've broken past my warning, it's seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12306	I'm done. For some of you, I know you won't be in any more power. If only you knew you were here for a while, think about what they're cooking for you when you're not with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12307	I'm guessing we're out of press releases. Right on line, MP Mr. Goran Vesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12308	I thought at the end of the debate I'd pick up my word, explain to the MPs who made legitimate remarks, that these objections were actually regulated here. I'd like to say something to the gentleman who preaches morale here. It's been a year since you left power, it's September 24th. When you talk about who has the right to sit here, you should know that's what citizens and RIK decide about. [[Applause]] That's one thing. Secondly, you who kidnapped a two-ar apartment in downtown Belgrade, as Deputy Prime Minister, although you have a house in Kragujevac, which you have been selling for several years, have no right to talk about morality. Your morality, Nikolic, was lost then. Since you've been in power so long, you'd have to know that the federal interior ministry has no rank. You should have known that because you were a federal envoy, but you don't know that. You're a man of evil things here, an evil man who serves only to attack someone, set someone up. Wherever you say something, whoever you say something to, they'll stand behind you two hijacked arias in downtown Belgrade, which you kidnapped from this people, bought for a few thousand marks as vice president of the government. I know it's not hard for you, so if you did, you'd be ashamed of it. Fortunately, there's an extraprofit bill coming up, so you'll pay the fine you have to pay. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I give you a reminder. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12309	Mr. Nikolic, you've caused a replica. There's a closing word when we're done with the amendments. You can't change your mind like that. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nikolic. I hope you don't abuse this announcement, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12310	You've hurt Article 99. Rules of Procedure. The previous MP spoke of me very negatively, falsely representing me in the eyes of the public, who knows me much better than he thinks. I've never taken anything from anyone, never a house in Kragujevac, never sold it to anyone, nor will I sell it to anyone. I'm finishing it these days. I've made that house, Goran Vesic, a lot of things I've done in my life, unlike you. I recommend you read Lambrose, and you'll find yourself. Let's stand here next to each other, so let the people say who the monkey is, come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12311	Right on line, MP Goran Vesic. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12312	That's not what you say, it's Lanbroza, but since you've only passed two law school exams and you've been studying law school for 20 years, there's time, you'll learn.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12313	We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the preamble of the Proposal for a Decision, the amendments were submitted by the Administrative Committee. Since the Legislative Committee has adopted the amendment of the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Borislav Pelevic. Since the Administrative Committee has adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers that the solution is legally possible in the amendment, I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. National MP Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Radojko Petric, in the capacity of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12314	Dear Members, we have seen that the Administrative Committee has proposed that parliamentary groups organise and carry out professional and other tasks for their own purposes, namely that they can hire a number of workers, executives for these specific tasks. Basically, that's good. However, the Committee proposes that the budget funds provided for this purpose be shared by a proportion of the number of MPs, which the parliamentary group has, in relation to the total number of MPs. I submitted the amendment because I don't think it's a good solution and for the reason that one number, one part of the job is the same for all the sending groups, so if there are five MPs, 10 or 150. That is why I have proposed that this is not the only criterion - the number of MPs - because if we sincerely want equality and that these parliamentary groups can do part of the work, or organise professional services to prepare part of the work for them, then it is indeed necessary to apply another criterion for these funds to be allocated. For example, the parliamentary groups that are now formed have five or eight MPs. So he'll be entitled to two percent of the funds or three percent. What can they do about it? There's really nothing I can do. I believe that in order to be fair, a combined method should be applied, my proposal comes down to the following -- that one third of these funds that are provided in the budget for these purposes, to be distributed evenly to all parliamentary groups, and two thirds of them are equal to the number of workers in that group compared to the total number of MPs. So, we would apply one really correct principle to allow each MP group to organise these jobs, but yet that parliamentary group that has more MPs, has a larger volume of jobs, to get some more funding. To point out that this proposal does not extend to the SPS, whose member I am, this amendment, and if accepted and not accepted, no corrections will come from our parliamentary group, but it will for these smaller groups. That's why I think there's room for this criterion to be applied, so the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12315	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12316	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that this is where a violation of the Rules of Procedure was made by the Chairman, acting in accordance with Article 133, because, after the completion of the search, it was in principle necessary to put it on the table, that is to say, a decision in principle, given that there were two amendments. One was accepted as part of this as an integral part, and the second amendment, submitted by fellow Members, was not accepted, which means that a member was injured here and was first to be declared in principle, and then to open a discussion in detail on this second amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12317	I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken because, in accordance with Article 153, a single search is being carried out here and that is Rule 2: - Proposed Rules of Procedure, Declarations, Resolutions, Recommendations, Decisions or Conclusions can be submitted by the legislator, in writing, with an explanation. Item 2: Proposal for an act referred to in Article 1 shall be previously submitted to the Members of Parliament and shall be open to a single search. Therefore, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mr. Nikolic's violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12318	I don't think you have a good estimate of whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not. This decision cannot be applied to Article 2 but to the position of the 3rd member. In the procedure for the adoption of regulations and other general acts adopted by the National Assembly, the provisions of this Rules of Procedure concerning the adoption of laws shall be applied accordingly. Unless otherwise arranged for certain types of acts in this Rules of Procedure. For this Regulation, it is not otherwise regulated in any way, this Regulation is not a conclusion, it is not a recommendation, it is an act by which many relations in the National Assembly will be regulated, or even personal incomes, or new employment, personal remuneration of employees and how they will be classified, in which sectors, how many competences they will have. This is an act which cannot be taken under the act of Article 2 and cannot be held by a single debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12319	This is an act that is subject to Article 153(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which I have already read. So the draft rules of procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions and conclusions also apply to the decision. Paragraph 2 states that for these types of acts, a single search is being conducted and is being opened, and what is in attitude 3 is, in fact, what is different for certain types of acts, which I have stated, is for the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone, by amendment, report to Mr Radojko Petric for a word from the authorised participants in the amendment debate? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Radojko Petrovic. For 43, against 110, a abstentioned one, 24 of the 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The Administrative Committee has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Since the Legislative Committee has adopted this amendment, I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. The Administrative Committee has also submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Since the Legislative Committee has adopted the amendment of the Administrative Committee, I also find that this amendment to Article 6 has become an integral part of the draft decision. The proposal to add new members of 6a after Article 6. and 6b. The Management Board has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 6a be added after Article 6. and 6b. Since the Legislative Committee has adopted the amendment of the Administrative Committee, I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. Mr Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the MP want a word? He wants to. ) I give my word to Parliamentarian Radojko Petric, in the capacity of the amendment promoter to Article 9.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12320	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, in the decision so far provides for the appointment of assistant secretaries, republican advisers and advisors of the National Assembly to be made by a high school worker and at least ten years of work on those jobs, provided that he has shown good results in the workplace. What you're looking for is high-prepared and good results, that makes sense. But looking for these jobs that it has to be a minimum of ten years of internship, it's really too much. People graduate from college in four years. The minister is not required for a ten-year job and is working successfully. My amendment is that I suggested that instead of ten years being minimum of three years, under the condition that the worker was intelligent, ambitious, working, to prove himself on these jobs. However, by estimating the circumstance that the Labour Relations Act in the state bodies really provides for ten years of standing on these jobs, that this is an act of stronger legal force, I am withdrawing this proposal, but with the appeal that when we adopt a new law or make changes to the Labour Act in the state bodies, this is what we have in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12321	I find that MP Radojko Petric withdrew the amendment, which he submitted to Article 9. The Management Committee has submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Since the Legislative Committee has adopted the amendment of the Administrative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. Since we have completed a single search on the proposal for a decision and a decision on amendments, does the proposing representative want a word? He wants to. ) The President of the Administrative Committee, MP Goran Vesic, has the word as a proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12322	With regard to the amendments submitted by Mr Radojko Petric, I would only like to say briefly, and that will clarify some of the dilemmas that some SPS MPs had - all parliamentary groups have an employee who is the secretary of the parliamentary group, who is being paid by the National Assembly. The status of those faces is not disputed. Those faces will not be paid out of the money that the parliamentary group will receive. These are employees of the National Assembly. Every MP's group has the right to that face. The money that the parliamentary group will receive, proportionate representation in the National Assembly, can use it to hire persons who want, the way it wants, according to the contract on the part, whatever it wants, to help the parliamentary group prepare for discussion. I would also answer the remarks that have been made about the fact that now the persons involved in the parliamentary groups do not know how much money they will have. These are persons who are employed, who exercise their labour rights here and who will therefore have all the belongings. That's one thing. Secondly, as for the amendment submitted by Mr. Petrovic - why didn't we accept one third? Because every MP's group already has one face. So, from the money she gets, she can hire another person, so no MP group will be denied. That's the only reason we turned down your amendment. The reason the second amendment was rejected is that it is contrary to the Labour Relations Act. Otherwise, we really had the will to accept it, as we accepted Mr. Pelevic's amendment. I would like to say that this act really means the separation of legislation from the executive authority. Employees at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will move to the National Assembly Service. Currently, their orderly, organisationally-discipline, was the director of the Republic organ common affairs service, and the secretary of the National Assembly was financially, functionally, and he was the one who had the budget, meaning the signator of the funds. It is perfectly logical for these individuals to be disciplined and organized under the secretary of the National Assembly. The Secretary of the National Assembly is elected here. If the MPs aren't happy with the secretary, they can always choose someone else. So there is complete control of the MPs over the National Assembly. I don't think there's any argument that would suggest that the executive authority can interfere with the work of the legislative authority. I think this is an act that completely separates it. With regard to the objection made to Article 18, which is the takeover from the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Authority in the newly established service of the National Assembly - all employees will be taken over. No employee will be out of a job. It's not the intensity of this. First, the Administrative Board will adopt a systematisation act. The systematisation act will be, since there are representatives of almost all parliamentary groups, and I am sorry not all of them, an act on which the secretary of the National Assembly will deploy employees. Therefore, all employees will be taken over. We had to make a decision to predict how employees of one organisational unit would move to another organisational unit, nothing more. As far as the Administrative Committee itself is concerned, I will use only one sentence to say, since it has been mentioned here that the Administrative Board will be seizing immunity, I am the chairman of the Administrative Board for just another month. I'm here temporarily as president. At the last session of the Administrative Committee, as I see that MPs who do not participate in the work have launched an initiative to take the position of the Supreme Court of Serbia on parliamentary immunity. Two MPs from the ruling majority and one MP from the opposition, the SPS, were appointed as representatives of the board. We will go there together, and we will ask the Supreme Court to take a binding stance on immunity, to make it binding for the courts and to make it a guideline for us. So, in this way, once and for all, I think in a much better way than was ever done, when no rules were known, we'd solve the problem of immunity. As far as criminal charges are concerned, as regards the private lawsuits, the Committee took a stand in the last session. I think the attitude is very favourable for the MPs. That's what everybody's gonna find out. MPs who have been deprived of immunity due to criminal charges have no reason to be afraid. They should be afraid of some other applications, and criminal charges won't allow them to lose their immunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12323	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12324	After the final word of Colonel Vesic, before we begin the vote, please establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-24-0.u12325	I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into their MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm concluding a unique search. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision and the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 134, against one, abstentioned 27, did not vote seven, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This concludes the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly. You received notice that the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly was scheduled for Tuesday, October 2, at 10.00 p.m.
