ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6718	Mr. President, I'd like to give you a proposal from the Rules of Procedure, and whether you accept it or not. As you know, we held an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia last week in an effort to prevent a decision on the legal framework for Kosovo and Metohija. The session was called on a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia. That session obviously failed to prevent the adoption of legal frameworks. On the basis of Article 155(2), The bill, defence and security issues of the state can be put into the agenda and the sessions that are under way. I would ask you to give us or a shorter answer why we are no longer responding to what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, or if we were convinced that we must prevent the adoption of legal frameworks, why do we not now debate when the legal frameworks are brought in. And in the debate on resolution, I asked what the Serbian government would do if these frameworks really were brought forward. I think it's time for the government of the Republic of Serbia to take us out now what we're going to do and how we're going to move on. The legal frameworks were brought yesterday and it produces terrible consequences for the Republic of Serbia, for all its citizens. That's what we couldn't stop. Are we going to be quiet now? Are we going to try to prevent an act every time, and when we fail, act like it didn't even happen? So, I suggest that during today you request the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether we have an extraordinary session or not. We are prepared to interrupt this session to discuss it. This will not affect our work today, only we feel that it is immoral of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that today, when things have already gone downhill, it does not come out, and that it has come out with some warning that obviously had no effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6719	We talked about it, you know, already. We'll have a session right after this session is over. This was agreed just when we agreed to hold a session where the resolution of this National Assembly was adopted. We are expecting a proposal for an act. According to the Rules of Procedure, we cannot schedule sessions like this without the appropriate proposal for an act set out in the Rules of Procedure. We're expecting a proposal from the government. We will hold that session immediately after the end of this session, at which we have five points left. Practically, in about four to five working days, I guess we can work it out. That was already agreed ten days ago. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Next year, there is nothing urgent. Well, it depends on how much we work on these legal proposals. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Change and Completion of the Social Protection and Security Act for the Social Security of Citizens You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Bozidar Vucurović, Tomislav Nikolic, Bozidar Vujic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Goran Cvetanović and Srboljub Zivanovic, as well as the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He's got Mrs. Matkovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6720	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this is the last law in this area, which only changes so much that what has changed in the field of work, and that's what profits are. You will see that, as in the previous law, additional security has been installed here, in the sense that in three months, in June, July and August, all these givings are indexed by the cost of living. Then we'll be able, based on real data, to see if these estimates were good. If something turns out to have happened to the estimates, then we'll be in a position to change these laws again, so that we don't accidentally get into a situation that is being reduced. I would like to ask you to pay attention to Article 7, or perhaps once again to explain why what applies to censorships here says it will only apply from October 1st. Because on the basis of quarterly data, everything that's received from the family is determined and then it's a clean quarter where we're going to have gross amounts of income. It's July, August and September, so that point is then applied from October 1st. That's why article 7 looks what it looks like. So I would like to point out once again that the calculations were made on the basis of the information that was available, based on the data that we received from the Ministry of Finance, that what's net, that it's less than what's gross, and that's why the percentages change, and that we installed the Life Cost Index to make sure that these donations don't shrink. Of course, as for these other laws, there are many reasons for these legal solutions to be improved, for some to change, for the emphasis to be placed on the protection of individual groups to change. However, it is something that, as I pointed out earlier, there is one order of changing the law. The fundamental changes or improvements of these laws are now not their turn. These are technical changes due to a change in tax policy, due to a change in the principles of profit formation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6721	Any reports from the board? No, I don't. ) Are the presidents of the parliamentary groups coming forward? Yeah. Mr. Pelevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6722	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, today is on the agenda of the Social Protection and Social Security Act, which is another one of the social policy sets. It's very similar to the social care law that we adopted yesterday, unfortunately, in general. I would not agree with Mrs Matkovic, the competent minister, if it were technical changes alone. I don't think that that opinion will be shared by those who are in a state of social need, or those who are subject to this law, which are families, are individuals, individuals who receive an allowance for the assistance and care of other persons, so all the families that have social needs, who practically live on welfare. I think you'll agree with me that these are not only technical but also financial changes, unfortunately that will strike again according to their standard of living. I'm going to try to explain mathematically that what I'm saying is really what I'm saying is true and it's really argumentative. First of all, if we take Article 1 to point 1, when it comes to the individual receiving social assistance, or material security, if it was 50% of the net earnings before, today it's only 16% of the total earnings. In the past, the salary was 80 marks, and we found that, so the most favourable salary to be charged was 80 marks, so there were 50 percent marks. For the past month, there was now a salary of 140 marks or 4.270 dinars, according to a report from the Republic Statistics Office. If we account for 16% of 140 marks, that means 22.4 marks. If it goes to the fact that by the end of the year there will be 200 marks on average in the Republic, which is very optimistic, but that we accept it and that it is so, which we would all be happy about, even if everyone was well-intentioned, in which case 16% would be 32 marks. So, if we go for a projected income of 200 marks per employee in the Republic, that would mean by this percentage of 16% when it comes to an individual, only 32 marks, which is less than 40 marks that were given in the name of 50% of the salary per employee of 80 marks. The same is true of family, which is a characteristic family, for example, of four members. She used to get 95% of the profit, and today she's getting 30% of the profit. This means 80 marks that were in the previous period, 76 marks, while on the earnings currently current in Serbia, which I am afraid will not change for the next three months of 140 marks, that is 42 marks, meaning significantly less than 76. Let's suppose by the end of the year there will be 200 marks on average, which will be a great success for the government, and what we will all be happy about, in that case, it will be 60 marks. You will allow Mrs Matkovic, that 60 marks are far less than 76 marks, and when it comes to persons living off material security. The same case is also in article 4, extra for the assistance and care of the other person. On 80 marks this is 32 marks, on 140 marks is 18 marks, and on 200 marks is 26 marks. So if there's a salary by the end of the year 200 marks, it'll be only 26 marks. This isn't about tech, it's about net and gross wages, it's pretty clear. It is a percentage, a profit, and when it comes to Article 1, which is calculated for the previous quarter or for Article 4 on income per employee in the Republic, which is calculated for the previous month, which is a good solution, because these are the persons who are really the most vulnerable categories. Of course, Article 6 states that it will all be in line with the cost of living and that it is good that this member is represented in this law. However, I think it would only be a waste of time. If the Government designed to make the salary 200 marks by the end of the year or 250 or 180, then it was necessary to apply appropriate percentages to the salary, so that we would not meet again for this law in September, or October of the month. I think this is a reality and that the realities that those who are in a state of social need are really going to be reduced by this law. It's not a drastic reduction, but it is still a significant reduction, given that it is the category that is most endangered. So I would also ask Ms. Minstra and the people's emissaries to return to work and to apply for this year the corresponding percentages that would not compromise the standard of living of those who are the most socially endangered anyway. I thank you for your attention and understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6723	The word is Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6724	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, seems to me that in the light of each of these proposed amendments and the addition of existing laws in the field of social obligations of the state to citizens, we cannot avoid the same arguments. So, as the opposition kept saying yesterday that it was a reduction of rights, we are obliged to remind of the difference between formal and applied law in the past, the attitude of the government-led state at the moment and the financial neutrality, which is expressed as the insistence of the restoring ministry in proposing this law. I don't think a congregation speaker is the best place to define so accurately what net earnings are, gross earnings, net wages, the relationship between wages in the Republic and wages in the economy. Unfortunately, it's not exactly the facts that have been mentioned and that are in favour of the effort, let's say the new government escapes its obligations, and if we wanted to run, we certainly wouldn't be doing what we've been doing so far. I'll remind you that we inherited a 26-month debt on this basis. This debt is rescheduled that we have never been late in the last 100 days in reconciliation against citizens who have rights on this basis. Finally, I will remind you that this is a practical alignment with amendments and additions to laws that define the rights of employees and their working relationship. So it's not about the 2,400,00 dinars to which 50% is applied, it's about 1,706,00 dinars, to which we apply these 50% as guaranteed funds that the state is obliged to provide for those who exercise their rights on this basis. If you apply 16% to gross earnings, the average gross earnings in the past year, which is 5.387.00 dinars, and 50% to 1.700,00 dinars, you'll see that it's practically the same amount and financial neutrality that we've been insisting on all along. No less than there has been so far, and we can say that these funds are not enough, but unfortunately this country cannot fully provide the necessary funds that would be required to, say, ensure that it is more financially capable than the present case. Of course, I will remind you of a number of changes and additions and at the moment of the applicable law, which were primarily due to the alignment of the state's potential with the needs of society. I expect that, as soon as possible, we will be able to give greater rights and guarantee greater freedoms to those who are socially endangered, but at this point it is an unacceptable argument for us that this policy, which we propose to Members for adoption, is interpreted by the policy of reducing already such restricted rights in this area of social policy. So it's a policy of financial neutrality, changes that arise are changes that are due to changes in laws that define the rights and obligations of employees. At the same time, the basic premise that can be characterized by the policy that we have supported for the past 100 days is the state's ability and its determination to meet its obligations on this basis. We're not late for that. We inherited a 26-month-old debt, and we're paying that debt back. You know, it's a picture of the government, it's a picture of DOS, which MPs in this assembly support, and therefore I was obliged to point out that mathematical inaccuracies in the interpretation of the policy that the Resent Ministry represented, the policies that we supported, specifically on the subject of the previous law, and also on the amendment and addition of the Health Insurance Act, and I think, in any case, it's our duty to point out this inaccuracy, and at the same time we don't interpret it with some tendency, but simply, there, by itself, the changes that require further argumentation and interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6725	Is any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups coming forward? The word is by MP Zivko Selakovic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6726	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I would like to point out, that is, I would like to make some remarks under the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection and Social Security Act. I say - notices, because if I were to make a suggestion, our proposals are usually not accepted, and I think it's more appropriate to say - a note. As always, the Soviet Parliament group is consistent with its programme definitions, which are, in order to preserve the standard of all citizens, especially citizens who have been brought into a state of social need to significantly improve their standards. We therefore express our dissatisfaction with the proposed solutions contained in the proposal for this law. I say this because the possible acceptance of the proposed solution will not lead to an improvement in their material position, which is now, you can say, an unworthy man. This is unambiguously indicated by the proposed percentages in Article 1 of this proposal for the determination of the right to material security, which are only recalculated on the basis of gross earnings. Such a proposal, with the solution proposed, in Article 6, according to which this right from June to August 2001 is aligned with the Life Cost Index, instead of moving net earnings, as established by the applicable law, will lead to stagnation, if not the decline in the income of these citizens. This is evident from the reasoning of the law, which states that the proposed solutions do not promise the rights of these users. With all this in mind, the last known data for the fourth quarter of 2000, according to which the level of material security for one person, which I will read to you, 100 per cent checked in one municipality, is only 81 per month, while this, depending on local self-government, moves to 1,233 dinars in Belgrade. For a family with five or more members, the amount of compensation is, no less, but 163 dinars per month. This is the same information and was found in the same municipality. Then, proportionally again, depending on the will of local self-government, it moves to 2,466 dinars in Belgrade. It is clear that these amounts are more than symbolic and that they cannot provide even the basic needs of this category of citizens. Without finding the possibility of significantly increasing the amount of material security, these users will find themselves in an unembarkable material position. Therefore, the Soviet Parliament's group underlines that it is necessary for the government to urgently take appropriate measures and propose better, more concrete solutions, which will provide these users with at least a minimum of existence. Furthermore, the provision of Article 7 of this proposal provides for the law to enter into force on 1 June 2001, but in order for this law to be applied in the light of the bill's proposal, it is said - to wait for the data on the movement of earnings achieved only in the third quarter of 2001. So, with payment, that's it. By applying these rights, it would begin on October 1, 2001, which means exactly four months after this law was passed. Since it's one of the most endangered populations of people, just as soon as they receive social assistance, I'm afraid, God forbid, that some of them may not wait for this law to be applied. In view of all the facts and failures in this bill, i.e. By amending and supplementing the Social Protection Act, the Assembly Group cannot accept such proposed solutions, unless this law is withdrawn, that they may find better solutions to the process, and that will be subsequently made known. But in today's proposal, the Soviet Parliament Group will not vote to pass this law. I would ask, since I already have time to ask Mrs. Minister one question, she was correct in relation to the other ministers to answer our questions, or proposals and amendments to the opposition. I don't get it, I might have misread it, which is why this vacuum is between law-making and the application of the law. Is there a donation or security waiting or something? I'm making this well-intentioned, not provocative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6727	The word has Mrs. Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6728	I think there's two things going on here. If we carefully read the law, whose amendments are proposed, this Article 1 here refers to Article 11. The law, which does not define the level of giving, but defines the censors, means who has the right, with which level of income, who has the right to this material security. So all the budgets that have been made so far are made as if this Article 1 implies what the amount of the right is. No, he refers to who has the right, so as far as law so far, those who have had so much and so much lower income than the average, that percentage changes. This means it's not the amount of giving. That's one thing I'd like to point out. So these are the amendments to Article 11, which defines who has the right, not what the amount of the right is. Since that's the case, then in Article 7, we moved the deadline, so that we could determine who had the right. Those people who apply on October 1st mean they're being applied to this change -- what is now that amount of profit. For those who apply on July 1st, we will count on net earnings, because they made net earnings in the previous quarter, and they go according to the old law. The regulations say you have the right to receive in the last three months. So there's no vacuum. We're not going to say that this has been applied since June 1st, because then that would mean that we're applying gross earnings for the previous three months when gross earnings didn't exist, but there was net earnings. That's why it's precision and that's why it's different. It is very important to understand that this Article 1 applies to censorships, and then these censorships can only apply from October 1st, because these three previous months are necessary when there is a new principle of what they earn. As for the level of material giving, I have to say, the same thing that's important, to realize that in the existing law is a fundamentally good solution, that amount that's given to families is different because families are in a different situation. So, one of them doesn't make any money at all, so they're given the full amount, and they're practically filled with their budget completely, and the other is given the difference between what they essentially have and what the level of material security is, as defined by law, so of course it's different from family to family. Let the family already have something, and let them have no income, let them be almost near that level of material security, however we define it. Otherwise, what I'd like to say is that these accumulated delays are paid to these families, so there's no longer that debt, so we could say that if we look at it strictly this year, these families will go much higher funds because they got what they were behind the state towards them, so no matter what they're relatively, depending on family to family, small giving, they'll get much more in absolute terms. And we're left with hope that next year, not because we're giving them something that's left behind, so they get more than we can and we're really giving more, and we're hoping that the economy will get on its feet. But next year's next year. So what we can safely say this year is that they've been given a backlog, so they've been given a lot more money.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6729	The word has a folk MP, Mr Nikolic, and after that, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law can be discussed as well as what we talked about yesterday, because the principle, the system, the mathematics applied in this law is identical to what we talked about yesterday and the representatives of the government, and we are left with only time to tell who was right, but it is evident that the amendment and supplementer wanted to keep the level that existed so far. He did not engage in whether the increased budget also allows for increased rights. This law has two members who are important and who may have confused some MPs. Article 1 determines the level of social security which then provides for the right to material security of the family and these percentages are not what the families will get, but by which basis, if the family has income or no income, they will charge whether the family is socially endangered or not and whether the state needs to help it or not, and will help to the level prescribed by Article 1 and that is what concerns us. We are convinced that this social security threshold with this bill for amendments and amendments will be reduced, it will be lower and it will no longer be, our opinion is, 30,000 families who will have the right to receive it every month than that number will be smaller, because a larger number of families will be able to reach 16% of their income in the Republic, and they would not be able to achieve 25%, as far as we think they should have written in Article 1 instead of number 50. On the basis of Article 1 of the family's material security, the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not find any debt in January of the month, because an update has been achieved and this is clearly seen in the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget, but on the basis of Article 4, on the basis of an allowance for the assistance and care of others, I think it stands at 160 million dinars and that is what the Serbian government will have to deal with heroically this year. The right to material security is about 50 million dinars per month, with everything at the highest amount, which means it's much lower, since it goes from one person to another and ends with a family of five members. This is no expenditure for a strong, consolidated budget, which has stable sources of income, such as the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget. I think it's clear to all of us, and it shouldn't have been this much of a hair split, so we can estimate even gross earnings per employee in the Republic to get the required amount, in order to get financial neutrality. In the year in which everything is collected, in which it will gather, in the year in which the salaries will grow, do not provide financial neutrality for the government of the Republic of Serbia for the expenditure it has, for which it collects from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You provide, that's much more important, real people's material security to families, and don't provide financial neutrality, even if it's at least 10 months to receive more, than 12 months to receive lower amounts, and there'll always be funds for this. Any government that allows, in the normal conditions in which our country lives today, to begin to delay in the payments of these rights, risks that citizens are in the elections for this punishment, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is likely to think about it as well. I think that the amendment and supplemental promoter seduced MPs who spoke exclusively of the level of law, because, in the light of certain provisions in paragraph 2, Article 1 said that the change in the percentage for the calculation of the census and the level of the right, given the amended basis for the calculation of the right, and it was possible that this led MPs to recalculate, but the bill is approximately accurate and I am convinced that the level of rights under these amendments and the donations of the law will be lower than those that have been achieved so far. There's still time. The promoter made himself a small delay, made it possible for himself to have the right to recalculate and that is the only good thing in this bill. Of course, we will keep an eye on the exercise of these rights. Since it is our duty to criticise the government in the Serbian Parliament whenever something is wrong, we will certainly warn the government in good time that we were right. If we were wrong, we'd be able to act on this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6731	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6732	I promise I won't talk anymore. I think this is the first time I've said anything on a conceptual level, because I really think we're going to have a lot of opportunities and reasons to talk conceptually. But this is an opening. I was simply encouraged by Mr. Nikolic. What we found and what I didn't think at this point was good to change, we found one situation in social policy that significantly protected families with children rather than generally viewed poor families. Since we have those child-addition censorships, except when it comes to a third child, they mean they're being taken by poor families, there's some kind of censorship that determines who has the right to a child's allowance, then the question arises, do we now have to go to some weight shift or maybe some sort of weight-return? Since we have this experience that during the family transition with children paid the highest cost of transition, we have decided so far as we say. I guess it's going to be on the agenda and changing these laws in the fall, but for now we've decided to keep that principle to protect families more with children. According to the data we have now, we're increasing the number. As you know, yesterday I was talking about, once a year, families apply for child benefits and based on the quarter of the previous year, again on their incomes, we decided to see what the number of families with children will be now, since we already see that it is increased. Obviously, the revenues at the end of last year were relatively low, and on the other hand there was, since additional bonds were being paid, motive to apply, so that we can expect the shifts when we're doing the fundamental changes to this law. But, as they say, let's see now how much the number of poor families with children has increased, according to data for the end of last year. Let's see how many of these families we're going to protect through child's supplements and then see if there's any movement on the basis of all of this in this sphere. Let me say -- relatively quickly we expect, in a month, that we have all that data collected from the municipalities, since the application process has just been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6733	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as most of the Socialist Party MPs, I was hoping that there would really be a more up-to-date work by our government in terms of adopting new legislative proposals. This is how we know which way, as well as the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, Health Insurance, etc., are faced with technical changes under the already existing laws due to gross - net profit principles, and at the same time announced the adoption of conceptal different laws and the regulation of these areas in a new way in due time, perhaps in the autumn. This will only double the work of all of us, the work of Parliament, and I must realize that we are now with our work, by the reactions we have from the people, bored both God and man, but now. However, this is already the problem of the government and the problem of those who are in power -- how it will regulate the way people's couples are spent through the work of parliament and through the adoption of such incomplete legal solutions. The second thing, I agree with the fact, which is notorna, that the rights in the field of social giving have indeed been delayed. But we must bear in mind one indisputable fact, that our country has worked, and I will use the term, in abnormal circumstances. Now our country is working under normal, relatively normal circumstances, unless there is soon an escalation or a deterioration in the situation in some parts of our country, so we can again find ourselves in a situation where, because of this situation, we are exposed to pressure from the international public, sanctions, or God forbid bombing, far away. As a result, such a large social security fund was unable to serve as a state in time and there was a great delay in the area. However, the fact is that the previous government did not resort to restrictive measures in the area of social rights, despite all these facts and all the difficult conditions in which we were state-of-the-art. Now, however, we have a situation where social giving is limited by censorship, compared to who has the right to some social giving and to what level of social giving they will be. So if higher censorships are put in place, as is the case now, there will be fewer people who will be entitled to social benefits. Also, those who succeed in achieving this right will have a lower level of social giving. It's not right and it's one of the basic shortcomings in such a legal proposal. The importance of such a law is indeed that, unlike what we expected, our economy will be placed on healthy feet, that we will have the opportunity to actively participate at least in the world exchange, that we will have an increase in productivity and that our economy will ensure that people do not come into a situation to be users of social rights, according to projections that exist now expect a rapid increase in precisely that number of users of these funds. According to some forecasts, there are nearly 800,000 unemployed, in the near future there may be a million unemployed, and among them there will be a large number of those whose rights from the social sphere will be needed as well. So we have to realize that such a legal proposal reduces the rights. For what? If the ratio of gross and net earnings is one to two, I must point out that in Article 1, which determines the price for the achievement of rights and social benefits, let's say 50% is replaced by a percentage of 16, which is almost 1:3. So, as far as the censorship is concerned, that's it. As regards the level of giving in Article 4. "of the 40 average earnings earned in the economy of the Republic", they are replaced by the words "13% of the average earnings". And there's close to 1:3. Again, we are coming to the indisputable fact that it is a limitation of social rights. I also have to draw attention to one fact that this law does not reflect, which is that according to the data of the Republic Institute of Information and Statistics, the average monthly net profit in the municipality's economy in February is moving in the range of 1:10. As an illustrative example, I would like to quote White Palanca, where the average profit of 898 dinars is only, or, say, Dimitrovgrad, where the average of 740 dinars is, on the opposite side, the average of Lykovec or Beocina is close to 8,000 dinars. In this range are also the levels of material giving, so I am using this opportunity to distract your attention, or the legislator, to pay a little more attention to this fact, even though this concept really is brought into connection -- a way of providing funds for, say, material security that is aligned with the level of salary at the level of the municipality, not at the level of the Republic. I'll remind you that prices across the Republic are less - than the same and that they are material contributions for material security in the range of 1:10. In this regard, we should consider how we can provide these means, or ways to overcome such, in my opinion, absurd situations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6735	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6736	I'm going to mention once again that the measures are not restrictive, we know that the level of social giving will remain the same for the first three months, and then we'll check, if there's a fall that you're talking about, we'll change those percentages, that we don't talk about it anymore. The issue of using decentralisation criteria is very serious. When this law was formulated, in its own time, I know that there were probably no such differences between municipalities, and that's a question that, quite certainly, has to be resolved in this period, and, I say, one of the reasons why it was single-handedly single-aid fund is that we're counting from being decentralised to using centralised criteria, and then there's going to be a need for additional donations, and since, of course, the budget is based on existing laws, then we couldn't include such things in this division. But for these very reasons, we have made additional lists by municipalities (likely you have had the opportunity to hear it), so now we know what the number of families, which, because of that use of the decentralised criterion, would have to be further protected. Now we're collecting their additional data. You're right here, so using a decentralised criterion in these conditions is really not appropriate, it's just easy for developed countries, which don't have that much difference between municipalities, and even the one most underdeveloped, can make it possible for themselves, but that's the whole other principle of financing and municipality income, etc. But using a decentralisation criterion is definitely something we're going in the conceptual direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6737	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law that is before us today is in the light of the social laws that we had the previous day, and it is in many ways different. It is not different that the SRS parliamentary group considers this bill, which is being amended, to be more unfavourable than the previous law. Here we heard from the minister that the law, i.e. the basis, was calculated on the basis of estimates and budgets, which were made on the basis of information on finance. We can agree that this is the case, but we cannot agree that these are estimates that will improve the rights of use from this social category for citizens, i.e. users of this law. So we are almost certain that this law also, with these foundations, does not match what was offered to Serbian citizens in the pre-election campaign. There is no improvement under this law. The head of the DOS parliamentary group said, therefore, that there is no improvement, but that redefine is being done in the part where the neutral fact of the law is being carried out financially. We could agree that this redefinition exists, but it actually reduces the rights of users of this law. First of all, it reduces the rights because the neglected fact that life today is much more expensive, that they have accumulated all the basic provisions of life, and all of what the DOS authorities imposed has contributed to making it more expensive today. Also, this category of users is more expensive are basic needs, and these are some aids, because this is probably about disabled people, orthopedic aids, wheelchairs, etc. Therefore, given that all of this is more expensive thanks to the introduction of the impose, of all taxes, we can safely argue that this law reduces rights, i.e. the conditions of users of this social category. It is also said here that it is late with payments, and of course it is a fact, but that is why we must say that the funds allocated to the budget are far greater than the funds that were in the previous period, at a time when the government was restrictive and when the funds were channelled into reconstruction, to rebuild the destroyed factories, which have been destroyed by NATO aggressors, which are also being amnested here today. They don't mention a single donation, or war reparations, that they are obliged to pay to this people, so that both the budget, or the funds, are created from these donations, which they were promised. It is also noted in this law that the redefining of those basics, which are in line with the employment relationship, of the Labour Law has now been done. But we can also conclude the following, that the promoter was not at all in consultation with the prime minister, Zoran Djindjic, who said in his exposé - we will not buy the social peace of the pig's half, beans, flour, our people are not indifferent, that he does not know that he spends his honest money, we will pay off everything mainly in money and there is no need to distract the citizens with pig's halfs, cans, etc. This law says otherwise. So, if article 47b has already been changed, and it stands here - in Article 5 that this member is changing, only in the part where the words are changed: "incomes achieved in the economy of the Republic", are replaced by the words "increasings achieved by the employed in the Republic". Which is why in that article, if we had such a wing, that we would not pay the citizens in nature, it remains in Article 47b of attitude 2 that "single aid can be cashed or in nature". Why wasn't that Article 5 erased and the word "in nature"? I'm afraid precisely because of the downsizing of the law, as someone here said, many users won't even welcome the effectiveness of this law, so it's likely that this nature could be in funeral equipment, in crates and so forth. Therefore, like the previous law as the Law on Child Care, and this law is only one farce of god's concern, and therefore SRS MPs are justified here in making shortcomings, which are in that you have promised better laws, which you have promised a better life, and you do not offer these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6739	Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Golub Rajic, just two information, please - that the 10th session of the National Assembly of Serbia's Administrative Committee, scheduled for today at 1400 hours, will be moved by 15.15 hours, in the second floor room. And secondly, the de-concentrated MP lost his writing kit, so in the break let the secretary know. The People's MP Golub Rajic has the word, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6741	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is on the agenda of the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act. So, another law that sets out to comply with certain provisions of the law due to changes in the system, which defines the rights of employment. This bill has only seven members, and this is similar to considering previous laws during this session. To be honest, I expected a lot more from this government of experts, at least in this area. It is clear to me that by redefining the categories of earnings, there must be harmonisation and certain terms, as it is here and given, and that the category of net earnings is replaced by earnings, then net earnings in the economy by term - earnings per employee, although I am sure that there is still a large number of MPs in this House that is not clear, and probably for you in the Government, because different figures appear in nominal amount. I am not sure that by increasing the base, which serves to determine the censorship and the level of monetary rights in the area of social protection, it was necessary to reduce just this much of the parameters that serve to calculate the censorship and the level of rights in order to achieve a neutral fact in financial terms. I think that by applying this law, where the level of social security is shifted, above all in Article 1 of the individual - from 50% to the old law, to 16% for the family of two members - from 70% to 22%, from three members - from 90% to 28%, from four members - from 95% to 30% and from a family of five and more members - from 100% to 32%, our citizens who are users of social protection, and that giving on this basis will be less than ever, although they are expected to be different. Also, a member of the 4th. The bill, which regulates the second person's aid and care allowance, accounts for 40% of the average profit in the economy, according to the old law, is reduced to 13% of the average earnings earned by the employed in the Republic, which certainly will not be more than so far. Not to repeat the data and the amount of salary in October and today, but to say what could be bought for them then and now. There is something good here, and this is Article 6, which says that the calculation of the material security of the second person's aid and care allowance, in the sixth, seventh and eighth months of 2001, will be done by aligning these rights for May 2001 with the living cost index for the month for which payment is made compared to the previous month. Also, Article 7 which says the law enters into force on 1 June 2001, and the provision of Article 1 of this law will apply from 1 October 2001. This caution is probably good, and it will look at the trend in profit for this period and see exactly how much giving on this basis is going to be. Nevertheless, this law is restrictive and should not be accepted, and by October and October, the question is what will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6742	Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word, followed by MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a representative of the Government, Ms. Minister Gordana Matkovic, explained to us as a representative of the Government that this law only brings about technical changes caused by the adoption of previous laws and the change in the concept of income compared to net personal income and the harmonisation of the relationship between gross earnings and the former category used - net personal income. Furthermore, Ms. Minister points out that the budgets were carried out on the basis of information that was available and that the information came from the Ministry of Finance. It also says that the application of the law will be monitored and that, if necessary, provisions will be amended, i.e. percentages listed in these amendments and amendments to the law. However, Madam Minister does not exactly defend this law in the spirit. I suppose she's also convinced that the percentages and amounts that will be paid to the users, under this law, are not adequate, are not enough, but at least it's there, unlike the miracle of yesterday, the hairy one, who ran out after insulting the people's messengers. We think that the information is not valid, that it is not reliable, and we will certainly prove it in the debate. This law applies to families and persons who are able, as they say, to social needs. We will prove that the level of giving is decreasing, and we are not running away from the truth that previous amounts were small and that it was difficult to survive, or could not survive, for sure. Now, after all these gatherings, of these donations and of these amounts, they won't be able to pay for any electricity. Why is the level of these givings maintained at the same level, as you say, or decreases, as we say, if this year's budget is several times higher than last year? We expected that what was given, first of all for the social community, at least to be in proportion to the increase in budgets. I repeat that the Minister said that the estimated percentages in this law can be changed if the need is established or such changes in relations are necessary. I think that already today, during this debate that lasts less than two hours, we have found that giving is insufficient, because I have stated, it has accumulated electricity, it has accumulated heating, food products, drugs, everything is more expensive. Why wait a few months or a fall to do that, when it's obvious that today, with the government's consent, we can make some changes? Madam Minister, this government may not last that long, perhaps the government will change in the fall, so while we radicals form a new government, it will be a few months again and then we will be very late. The ruling majority, or representative of the ruling majority in the Assembly, has repeatedly repeated - we have found debts and it is a difficult situation. If it hadn't been for that, if everything had been ideal, you wouldn't have been the government. Normally, you wouldn't be in power. Now you're the government, and you've got to work this out. What do the people care that you have problems? The people have a problem. The people are asking you to solve his problem. You see, there are no ministers here, no prime ministers, not to mention, no president. They're in a different country every day. They've got honors everywhere. They honor them, but they don't give money. They're asking us to sell a few Serbs for that money, and it's going to be less than Tyson gets 10 rounds of one boxing match. This is quite well-intentioned, because you have acquired certain sympathy from the MPs, because you are not arrogant, you are trying in the best way to defend the law that you are the rapporteur, regardless of what we think the law is not good. We recommend you return this law, precisely because that law does not apply to your name. Don't let the poor man tie that law to your name and speak ill of you. Believe me, it's hard to survive from full pay, and it'll be even harder for those people who unfortunately come into this state. I'm sure it's announced that the government isn't hiding it, and it's obvious to everyone, that there will be a safe layoff of the workforce, to the surplus of the workforce. People who are over 30 years of work will also leave, and they can hardly find a way to make money, maybe this will be their only source of income. Let's make the law a little bit more humane, make the percentages a little bit higher. You might accept, but DOS is still the worst and hard to accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6744	The word has the MP Slobodan Janjic, followed by the MP Borisvoje Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6745	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we agree that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's finding is correct, and it is not, that the beneficiaries of the funds will receive the same amount of funds, it should be said that the financial obligations imposed on citizens, so far adopted by the law package, are three times the current ones. There are two concepts to reduce the resources of those who exercise rights to help from the social fund. However, the goal is the same. That as little money is paid to citizens as it is expected that by applying the laws adopted so far, the number of users will be tenfold higher, due to the layoff of a large number of workers. I don't think there's any difference in concepts, if the ultimate goal is the same, as little resources as possible to endangered families. What is the difference between the German concept, which is represented by Chancellor Djindjic, that we are selling Serbs per kilo in The Hague and the US concept, Mr Kostunica, to sell them in pieces, because we will achieve a higher price, and perhaps there will be auctions or auctions, where each Serbian head will be exposed in a transparent tender. Whoever in this country votes to deliver Serbs to The Hague, let every trace be blown away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6746	Mr. Janjic, why don't you surprise us once, and talk about what you've come to say? Come on, really, it really doesn't make sense. You've worked so hard. The word has a People's MP, Borisvoje Drakulovic, and after that, MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6747	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, I do not often report here, and I have a certain obligation under this law, and perhaps a greater right than some people. Namely, I'm a wartime military disabled 100% II category. I am proud to point out this for the simple reason that most often Mr. Toma Nikolic, who is again with the right, welcomes it, that he and his son are participants in the war and that they gave everything they could and how much they could give for the needs of this country. My son, too, has been on the battlefields for four years, and today he's where what's going on happens. But let's get this over with, let's get back to this part of the agenda. As the text of the Bill on Amendments to the Social Protection Act shows, only some termological changes have been proposed here. In fact, no special and good law. However, the DOS has announced that it will significantly increase the scope of social giving and other aspects of social protection, as well as disabled war, as well as other citizens who are socially at risk. So, instead of DOS accessing solutions and encouraging economic development, it expands the material basis for increasing social giving, the DOS deals with some irrelevant changes to the law. All citizens, especially disabled war, remain waiting for DOS and its government to have mercy and to provide adequate social contributions to all citizens. Instead of increasing the size of the rights of disabled war, the number of people with disabilities is increasing, on a daily basis, and the deaths of both police officers and civilians, and soldiers today and every day. So, in particular, this is happening in southern Serbia and in Kosovo itself. On the other hand, Montenegrin separatists don't care about this at all. They have even decided not to send their recruits to Serbia's premises, meaning the areas of the entire Yugoslavia, but are acting separatistly and do not care about the social contributions of other citizens and the problems encountered by our disabled from these events that are happening today in southern Serbia. I simply appeal that this law, as it is, may and may not be, I am particularly speaking to the Minister and extending these rights of social giving to our disabled, and to all citizens at all, because otherwise I come from a small municipality that is very poor, Little Ijosh is called a municipality, which is very poor. If it were to be viewed, you can be sure that any other citizen would have the right to social benefits. If by the percentages by which you decide to decentralize it will work, we'll stay far less, they'll be far more endangered than they've ever been before. From that community, it's reliable data, over 1,500 people responded, which as volunteers, which as soldiers, is like cops in all these wars. He's got a large number of people with disabilities. I think these people deserve one more correct and fairer behavior, and that material security to be far greater and better toward them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6748	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6749	We're in the process of formulating a new law. We are in full consultation with all fighting organizations. We invite you to join us on this occasion, to formulate this law so that he can address these issues better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6750	The word is made by the MP Dragan Colic, and after him is the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard the minister and the reasoning of the social protection and social security laws of the citizens. It's what the minister said about the technical changes caused by the change in the principles of profit formulating. It was also said that additional user safety was incorporated into the bill and that the Life Cost Index was incorporated. I believe that users of social protection will benefit from this, neither individuals nor families nor users who receive assistance for other persons' care. Cedomir Jovanovic said the opposition in the Assembly is misusing the assembly pay phone and talking about reducing the rights of social security users. Cedomir Jovanovic does not expect that SRS MPs for the government's poor moves, for the laws we believe will not be successful in the spheres of their actions, we praise the government and the resolute minister. The Assembly speaker is a place where different opinions will be heard, and often useful suggestions that you do not accept in most cases. We also heard that the state is not financially capable of working successfully in the field of social policy. It happens by who knows what time a pathetic speech about a difficult legacy, about a failed policy of the last government. Gentlemen of the DOS, the trust that Serbian citizens have shown you in the elections obliges you to act more successfully on social policy than on political opponents. The people did not expect you to reduce material income, which for this law is indicative. You promised Serbian citizens a more comfortable life, a life based on social security. Whether the DOS government will survive will depend largely on social policy, and failed social policy will also mean the government's fall. I don't expect the proposed law of the endangered social category to make him feel better about his material position. Did you put the truth firm or the white one on the lie shop this time, you're trying to show your grandmother a younger one, so let's see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6752	The word is made by the MP Srobujub Zivanovic, followed by Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6753	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Security and Social Security Act seeks to bring certain provisions of this law into line with amendments to the system defining labour rights. And here, in line with the redefine of the profit category, it is necessary to replace the "net profit" category in certain provisions of the Social Protection and Social Security Act. As the basis for the establishment of censorships and the level of monetary rights in the area of social protection increases, it is not necessary to reduce the parameters used to calculate censorships in order not to achieve the neutral fact of the law in a financial impact. This bill proposes a transitional regime with regard to the calculation of monetary payments for a period of three months from the entry into force of the law, and I think it should be tied to a republican average during that period. It is good that for users who have exercised their right to material security and a person's assistance and care allowance, it is suggested that since June, as of August 2001, the bill of giving is done by harmonising the corresponding amount for May with the cost of living. Ladies and gentlemen, this law on social protection and social security of citizens has created such anomalies so that it is a reduced supplement, namely: material security of the family, assistance and care of the other person, assistance for training for work, accommodation in institutions or other family and social work services. This law allows for a major inequality of the addition by municipalities in the Republic, and therefore the supplement in Article 3 of the Republic's entire territory should be uniformised. In addition, the existing DOS regime should not be expected to show good will and access serious reform procedures and well-intentioned remarks. But I think it will be forced by the power of public opinion and seriousness, thoughtfulness and rationality and alternative programmes for their achievement. Instead of cosmetics, which the DOS regime advocates, it is necessary to launch economics and its capacities that are truly optimally applicable to the social protection law of citizens. I think there are still real opportunities for smart and radical reform of the economic and political system, and I am in favour of hiring the country's entire intellectual potential. This proposed law suffers from another incurable disease: there are norms with too many social relations, thus losing that elemental consistency, the cohesion that a country's state law would certainly have to have. It contains much more conflicting and formal - legal provisions than would be possible under the terms of theoretically-funded impeccable constitutional constitution. And this time, too, it has proved that the devastating subjection of certain laws to a monopolies ruling party is uniformly exclusive and absolute, overloaded by ideological prejudices. That's why I think this law should return to the re-enactment of essential importance. I'd like to ask you not to present the government's work in the last 100 days. In order to carry out this work of government, I must step away from the agenda. The South of Serbia is indecisive. It can be said, recognition of Kosovo and Metohija, so it's already done. The destruction of Pristina University.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6754	Mr. Zivanovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6755	Also, the independence of the Duke. The total collapse of the economy. A great fight, without the help of the state, the most important branches of agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, these days, Mr. Kostunica is visiting the United States as one... (President: Mr. Zivanovic. ....................................................................................................... of the most successful statesmen in 2000. That's another U.S. lie. I don't know what he's...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6756	Mr. Zivanovic, since I warned you, I give you a warning because you are moving away from the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6757	... Indemnify this man to his people. Colubine destroyed, economy destroyed, assembly destroyed. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6758	The word is Mr. Alexander Vukic, as representative of the Parliament Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... Will you shut up and stop...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6760	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6761	And to break it up - the subject, go out to the pay phone if you have something smart to say, and I haven't heard you say anything by now, let alone cleverly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of this bill's proposal, as it has not voted in favour of any of the previously proposed ones of the so-called social-work legislation package and it is our desire to bring at least one of these laws down, because that would de facto bring down all these laws. Then it would no longer be possible to implement everyone else that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has already brought, which we consider not to be good, because of the harmonisation of gross earnings and net wages. So first of all, I would point out a few facts that are interesting in a package of these laws, and I think they show a certain illogicality, which I believe we will agree on. In fact, different proportions are seen in different laws when the so-called gross earnings are coordinated, i.e. when they move to the principle of gross earnings as a change compared to what we had before. In this law as well as in the previous law passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, proportions are approximately, or almost the same, with some difference of 3.1 times, so around 310%. Now, we had a previous law, I think it was a bill on amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family, and we also had a harmonisation in it, where it was said to be approximately neutralising, or to implement everything we had earlier in nominal terms. Then we had a relationship of about 2.1:1. How is it possible that these proportions are so different, and that they are always talking about the same amount, and that everyone is talking about how rights will neither be reduced nor increased, but everything, roughly or almost, will remain in the exact same content. It was already mentioned yesterday, I think, by the MP of the SRS Zlatan Jovanovic, and I don't think we've received an adequate answer to that question. What is interesting to the citizens of Serbia, they should say, they do not know that, and we could read that from the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, that the family with five and more members, so according to social protection and the provision of social security of citizens, as of December, received a maximum of 1,076 dinars. If you don't, in principle, touch their rights and give them 1,076 dinars today, it's the most, it's the maximum in that separation, such as the minimum limit of 251 dinar, the question is, who, in the conditions of such a drastic dragon increase, can provide himself with an existential minimum. At times, this man could at least buy bread and milk, one medicine at a monthly level, so bread and milk daily. Today, if you calculate just how much bread and milk it costs, you will see that it needs two or three times what the state gives it, if it's a five-member family or a family with more than five members. They are similar to the opportunities of proportion, as lower amounts are also for families with fewer members. I think that the government should have also taken these things into account, to see what's really going on at this point, and not only to deal with technical norms, or to comply with previously passed laws. I would also say that what is now being erased and the stone has no economic parameters, points to what is going to happen in the Republic of Serbia, which is the fact that we will have non-economic growth, but I would say economic stagnation, if you want an economic recession. You could hear from people who are seriously involved in economic and social policy in the last few days that unless there is an urgent increase in the production process or there is no clean money of about 400 million German marks, within a few days, there will be significant inflation, more important than the one we've had so far, which is not insignificant and which is 17.7% at the level of four months, or there will be a complete recession, and you know what that means. That would mean one real disaster for Serbia. So there's no mention of any economic parameters for absolutely clear reasons, but what's obvious to us and why it's not mentioned, which is why the government "holded" the nominal amount, as it was in the previous period, is the fact that there were 30,000 users, these are data from December of the month. But it is obvious that the government is counting on a significant number of those that will affect the increase in the number of persons who will be entitled under the Social Protection Act and ensuring the social security of citizens, that there will be many more, primarily because of the other laws that have been passed in a package of tax laws and because of the law on privatisation that is being prepared, i.e. already referred as a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So this shows that the state of social needs, i.e. a growing number of people, will also have a growing number of problems with ensuring existence, and it seems to me that the government has not managed to regulate it in the best possible way. It would be a good idea if in this legislative proposal, I ended up not being reminded and if some who had never come out for this pay phone had never looked at a single amendment, let alone read it, they would not have thrown it out of place. It seems to me that the government should take care of it, it also seems to me that in Serbia, it is increasingly evident how much trouble it has and that it cannot be behind all the TV screens, behind all the newspapers that today's government controls in Serbia, hides the fact that people are really objectively living harder. Not that they don't live much easier, not that it's not as successful as promised, but it's really objectively living harder. Let everyone just look at the bills for electricity, utility and other things that people pay for. Especially those who are in a state of social need, which we are talking about here today, and it would be good not to allow some to become rich at the expense of the state in huge proportions like Milan Panic, which is why today, among other things, Vuk Obradovic is being persecuted. It would be better for them to be taken without giving these people much more rights than they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6762	The word is made by Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6763	Of course, I have to say that the only right way to get out of poverty is if someone has a job and they can work, you're absolutely right. We're going to try to move, or we're going to have more elements of this active social policy, maybe we're not going to go into that detail right now, what does that mean? I don't have that information for a December month here, but of course it's increased, so last one for April, if it's a five-member family, now 2,954 dinars, that maximum amount. If I'm not mistaken, that's what you mentioned about December. This is what will remain for only three months because of the cost of living index, he implies that when in May the last month is paid according to the previous law that it is realistically maintained. So, to keep up with how all the cost of life will be increased, it will be maintained. That's why it's supposed to stay the same so that prices don't kill him. Otherwise, you know that the price rise is a little bit more unfavourable, and that's why we went to the Life Cost Index, because there are a lot of products that aren't for endangered categories of importance, and that's why we chose the Life Cost Index, so it really wouldn't fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6764	The word has a folk MP Vitomir Plužarevic, and the next is MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today as well as the previous days, we are discussing the Law on Social Welfare, or Aid. Social assistance is a necessary social category produced in society and the state because of social, political, historical and other activities. This group of people receiving social assistance in society makes up a strong population, which can easily be directed at a given time and politically. That's what you did during the takeover of power. You also promised this population, when you came to power, that then you would solve all these social cases in a close European way. You haven't even tried that until today when today, before us MPs, you've set amendments and additions to that previous law that you didn't consider to be good. You thought when you came to power, you would regulate it simply and simply. You failed, and probably an analysis of 100 days of government work didn't put that anywhere near the agenda. It's more than 8 months old, and you could have influenced that group of people that you'd either given them a regulation or, by some addition, increased the amounts for material donations. How to increase them, when they probably didn't arrive with all these billions waiting today. In Western Europe, which you have dreamed of before the elections, and today you are leading intensive political, cultural, social, economic and military talks with them, and these issues that life means, not only to this population, but to other people, not to a single word. This law that we're breaking today into percentages and mathematical formulas only regulates what we previously did in all other laws. Social protection is a pain that the state needs to solve as soon as possible. I don't think this state run by DOS will be able to do that. I'm not going to comment on these mathematical proportions and percentages, because they don't make a special impression on me because we've already absorbed it. Even today, we don't know the exact number of people who are receiving this help. It's likely that this population has increased by these eight months, and that's probably the greater budget needs that need to regulate this matter. I think that 50 million in the budget is a small item and that the government needs to correct that amount in favour of social assistance users. Time will show who's right, whether DOS or us commenting on different laws, we leave it to analysts and history to compare it. We need to ensure that the rights of the people of this population are respected as much as possible so that they can function. The minister in the area noted that the previous government had accentuated families with children and provided them with priority. I think it should also be seen as a future that needs to be approached as soon as possible, not waiting for it to happen in some future time. Social cases are like a patient receiving an infusion. If you give him an infusion in time, he continues to function and live. It's the same with social benefits. Previous laws relating to birth and health care have also been regulated and left with the right to regulate it in future times. I'll bet we have to settle all these laws today, not tomorrow. This makes life better, or partly better.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6766	Rač has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, once again, agreeing and yet again in such a way that the nominal amount of giving, according to previous law and amendments to the law, remains the same. And this year's budget has multiple nominally increased the amount allocated for these needs. Then it would be normal for the giving to be as many times or slightly less nominally increased, but not much less. The famous member of the 6th of the previous law says that a alignment is being made with the increase in the cost of life since May and beyond. The amount in the budget for this year, according to that law, is five times higher, should tell us that inflation will not be 30%, as the government predicted, and that the cost of life should go up around five times. Or, they should tell us that the current number of social assistance users should increase five times. The government doesn't say that. Neither the government nor this coalition in the election campaign said they would create social cases, but social well-being. If inflation is planned at 30%, then life costs are also planned, i.e. an increase in the cost of life is approximately the same. If the nominal amount in the budget is much higher than last time - what does that mean? That means now you, ma'am, are directly denying the government's policy. Now you're explaining to us here that the government is lying to us. You're explaining to us that the cost of living by the end of the year is going to rise and ha ha ha ha road, or you're telling us that the number of social cases is going to increase so many times. And the government doesn't say that. The government says, as I said yesterday, that we are running honey and milk, although taxed, but it does not tell us that the number of social cases will be higher and does not say that the cost of life will be as many times as you have increased the amount for these purposes in the budget. And, in all the accounts so far, in the income item, 50% is replaced by 25%. But that's when you fill the budget. When an empty amount of 50% is equal to 16%. Now, assuming this 16% is true, it means that the last time they dragged their hands into our pockets, they lied. So it didn't take 25%, or 1:2 in amount, to drag our hand into our pocket, but 1:3. All in all, whoever was doing these accounts and alignments took care of only one thing. To raise as much money as possible in the budget and to pay as little money as possible. It's also a symptom of showing in the budget of that famous 40 billion dinar deficit, which we have proved to you from here that it doesn't exist. It is also symptomatic how much we should expect to help from abroad, which should be spent for these purposes, mostly for this purpose. Because in our production, no one will invest, at least for now. These are ridiculous amounts. And I agree there's no money in the budget. We know he's gone. But you told us he had it and there would be it. Those famous six billion we've been spinning here already God asks you how many times. And the president of the parliamentary group comes out yesterday and says - 10 million is for these purposes and another three million for one-time assistance. Well, today that three million for one-time help. And a peasant with two haystacks can't give them both cows and sheep, if the cows already ate it. If we spent three million yesterday for those purposes, how come three million again today and for these purposes? Three billion, I'm sorry. Three billion. I oversold it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6768	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6769	So I can't defend the budget in general -- that's clear to you. I can say what our ministry predicted as an increase and why this budget is now bigger. There are two basic reasons. Since April 1st, they've been applying, and I said yesterday, I don't know if I spoke today, families who have the right to a child's allowance based on the situation they had in the previous year. It's so regulated by law. We have predicted that the number of those families that have the right to increase significantly and, among other things, because everything according to previous incomes and expenditures, means nothing about those who apply is changing now, so in that sense, at least here, the situation is clear. We estimate, and now based on what we've been able to process so far, it's confirmed that this number is going to increase significantly. It's hard to estimate now how much that means that their situation last year was harder. It is certain that the regularity of payments will also motivate some to apply, but we have predicted that the number of those families that have the right will increase significantly. Depending on what the situation is with our obligations with regard to families with children and children's allowances, then, when we now confirm that our hypothesis, or turns out to be less, which would be good, when we make these fundamental changes and this part, we will be able to change something in that amount when it comes to social cases. For now, the situation remains unchanged. That's why it's increased when it comes to the budget. It is assumed that the number of families applying for child supplements, I repeat on the basis of the situation in the previous year, that more will have the right and more will be motivated to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6770	You can't, you didn't mention it at all, first of all, you weren't called, she answered the question. You are neither offended nor misread. (He speaks to the People's Messenger, Vučurević, who asks for a word. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6771	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the Social Security and Social Security Act, and in the context of the proposed amendments, we need to go from what is considered a state of social need. And that's precisely defined by Article 2 of the basic law. Thus, the state of social need is considered to be such a situation where a citizen or family needs social assistance in order to overcome social and life difficulties and create conditions to meet the basic needs of life, unless these needs can otherwise be met, and based on humanism and respect for human dignity. We, gentlemen, are far from providing such solutions as we now have in law. Whether the number of these families is expected to grow - is expected. Last year, we ended up with 30,000 such users and we see from the final account that an individual on this basis was able to make between 125 and 853 dinars and not, individually, read all categories, families with five and more members, from 251 to 1,706 dinars. Earlier, Minister Matkovic said these were amounts that were current in December and said it was about 2,900 for this category of families with five and more members in April. But from December to April of the month, the basic provisions of life have been significantly accumulated, the electricity has increased significantly, the taxes have been significantly increased, and life has become more difficult and more expensive, and more expensive. Article 3 of the proposed law leads to an inequality of the right to social protection and social security from one municipality to another and leaves out the economy as a category at all. This is more favourable for users, as the average per Republic-level employee is certainly higher than in the economy of the Republic, but this also points to the conclusion that the economy is not accounted for at all, although the government is constantly talking about expecting a 5% economic growth for this year. In my opinion, the economy will surely slowly die, many companies will put the key in the lock and thus the number of social giving users will certainly increase. You are constantly calling, in the light of these laws of labour and social law, on financial neutrality. But that's something that citizens don't expect, and what we, MPs, don't want to support, because we're expecting an increase on all these grounds, given the increased allocations that citizens have on the basis of taxes and contributions, in order to fill their budgets, they have. All the money that goes into the budget has been allocated to the citizens, and no one else, based on taxes and contributions. And, as they allocate larger funds, it is logical to expect that the state increases the rights for the categories of the population, according to which it has an obligation. We, Serbian radicals, believe that the government did not take an essential interest in solving the problems involved in overcoming the social and life difficulties of citizens, who were in a state of social need, and therefore we will not vote in favour of the bill, as we have not voted for any draft law in a package of laws relating to labour and social legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6772	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike the laws that have been passed today in the Assembly and which have been abolished by existing laws - with a clause that still little longer applies, until new ones are passed, though, when these new, reliable and certain are not yet known, I guess until experts have found legislation experts -- this law may be an opportunity and perhaps a good law. Here's why good, at least partially, and sometimes and locally: good at the part where it actually keeps the old law. Experts and Madam Minister have determined that and today they offer us nothing or almost nothing new. The promise of root and fundamental reforms, including in the area of social legislation, seems to be frozen, up to new promises, for some new, next elections, and yet, that is, DOS, consistent with inconsistency. It really is DOS, and really, DOS is the worst. These are reasons why this law is good - good because the government, the government and the government elected DOS MPs did not reach out for radical changes in this area and thus damaged the legislative regulation of the area of social protection and the security of the social security of citizens. We've got it again, and that's all we've got, technical and terminology. As in previous legal projects, we have a transition from net to gross, we have a transition from guaranteed, to minimum earnings, we have a transition from profits achieved in the economy, to earnings earned by employees in the municipality or the Republic. This is said by these seven proposed members of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection and Social Security Act. What's not good about this bill, and what's lame about an MP from the ranks of the SRS, trying in a few sentences to explain -- they're not good, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the proposed percentages, because they're objectively and realistically lower than what life does in Serbia. Due to the increased cost of living, due to profits that do not follow, due to, or the same, the economy, which you do not create a more favourable market business environment, due to the fiscal policy that you have brought, which is recognizable, or also, also more transparent and only after harassing. They're not good percentages for social giving, because you're the only one who's recognized and only known mathematics, you've recalculated the former net to your gross, yes, right on your gross, which you're about to say for yourself, before the recent election: "Are you, too, son of a gross"? Four times the budget, and social policy is restrictive, or also rigid. As Mrs. Comic said in this assembly that phrase "also, too", and I used it now in my speech, I have to take this opportunity to take advantage of another spoken word, which she used with indignity and only by her own disgust - "Serbia, pomegranate". Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is "Serbia, come on", but in the best sense of that word, this is "Serbia, come on", which is difficult, which you DOS, which you DOS have given the citizens of this "Serbia," promised better tomorrow. You came to power, so you immediately took over the little morgen. Really, DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6774	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6775	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, the esteemed Madam Minister, entering this holy house, with the help of nearly 15,000 of my constituents, of course the Socialists, I did not believe that to this extent I would be dealing with a simple bill and that almost two months of digitron would not fall out of my hands, for some simple bills, to get to the final court -- how do I define myself, which button in the MP's unit to press, is that -- for, or what -- against? However, even today, we, colleagues and colleagues, have the situation of having a dilemma again - what to do, because, as we say, it is, and in an explanation of what it says, about a legal proposal, which contains only some technical consensus on amendments and additions to the Social Security Act and the security of the social security of citizens, i.e. on the replacement of the term - net earnings in the economics of the municipality, i.e. the city, in the previous quarter, or earnings per employee in the same period. The fact that a change has been made is in itself an instruction that we have to look at everything that's written. I don't see any reason why there's a change in the economy in employee income, because differences are so minimal that they're simply negligible. In Belgrade, those in employment are 1.4% lower than in the economy, in Leskovac it is 6.5% higher per employee than in the economy. But mostly the differences between profit and employment are absolutely minimal. It's like the government was just doing it to make some changes, so she made this change that I'm talking about right now. In addition, it added that the drastic reduction in the percentage for the calculation of censorship and the level of rights of socially threatened users compared to the changed base. This will also practically cause a change in census by approximately 23 to 25%. When it comes to a supplement for another person, a reduction in percentages from 40 to 13%, in Article 4, it's practically a little by three times, it looks like it's going to cause a reduction in income by about 25%, as we've done that calculation. Also, what's said from this pay phone, that it's terribly late to pay off these extras for other people's care, I don't think so. Leskovac received the first part of February, which is 1,200 dinars, how many I asked people to receive. Half of that income is 1,200 for February. So what is now proposed will mean a certain reduction that I'm telling you about. With these remarks we are certainly not against a new way of calculating, we are only against the drastic reduction of this percentage from 40 to 13, which is causing this effect of reducing the incomes, or giving to other people's faces by about 25%. If the government wants to maintain a valid relationship that will be accounted for for for in May and will comply with the increase in life costs for June, July and August, then Article 6 should introduce a provision for receipts, based on material security and an allowance for the care of another person, cannot be less than rights achieved in August 2001. There is no such thing, and the minister's promise, I must admit, is significant to us, but it is not a position that certainly applies. The government can also disagree with the wishes and what the minister proposes, so it is necessary to include it in this legislative proposal. What remains of Madam Minister's promise, I don't think it can give us socialists a guaranteed guarantee that it will be accomplished. That is why I think that all of them, and we MPs, who should vote for the adoption of this law, as well as future users of these receipts, will be safe only if such a change is brought into Article 6 and will be guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6776	The People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people, Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6777	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be much shorter on this occasion than we are allowed to discuss and point out only a few facts and things, given that it really is very serious issues and a very serious legislative project, and given that this law and its provisions depend on the life of the most endangered categories of the population in our Republic, which includes, at least according to the data of the relevant ministries, around 29,700 users of the material security of the family, 16,600 users of the allowance for the assistance and care of the other person and about 15,000 persons who are located in social protection institutions and other users. That's why I'd like to say that it's really better to pay off certain rights that gain these categories of population than to abolish or reduce them. On that basis, he will never get what was theirs and theirs. What are these families going to get by amending this law? We'll agree, until the day of this law - October 1st, they won't get anything. They won't get a raise, they won't get a cut. Am I right? I think there is no reason just to create a certain confusion through the amendment of Article 1, given that the percentages in Article 1, on the basis of which the price for the exercise of this right, are derived categories based on established or estimated gross income for the previous year, or in 2000. It is also foreseen that these categories, this amount, are determined on the basis of earnings per worker in the economy, i.e. per municipality employee, or city, over the previous three months. If the law and these legal regulations that we have passed in previous meetings around gross personal income live up, there is a possibility that by mid-October there may also be a familiar record of gross personal income for the period June, July and August, which means that this base and these percentages, which are now just an accounting category, at that moment, based on known indicators and data, will be relevant for determining these percentages. That's right. We won't argue with that. Also, I mind a little bit of being spoken in any form of contract, like we're at the market -- if it is, and if it isn't, we're going to change. However, this is the assembly, and it would answer more to me that for this number of users of Serbia's most vulnerable categories today, we discussed one single aid or predicted another way of helping these categories of population, given that, based on data, or paid social benefits for May, further harmonisation depends on the growth of the cost of life in the previous month, compared to the month being paid, which I also consider to be one derived statistical category that will not contribute much to the growth of these grants. Furthermore, I think there's one real danger that these receipts are actually going to lag behind the growth of personal incomes in the economy, at least as far as the month of June is concerned, because I still can't predict. Today, in the means of information, one finding has been passed on, that families with children pay the highest price of transition, which was also spoken yesterday for the consideration of the Law on Social Care of Children. These families, at least in my area, are families with the highest number of children in the Colubary County who receive social assistance. If we apply this law analoguely, I must say that, in addition to children's supplements, these families with the largest number of children will suffer the greatest damage and will have the least help from this transition. I think at this point, in the end, there's no reason to change Article 1, and it would be better to pay more attention to the social status and status of the most vulnerable population, because you've made a lot more promise than what at this point does not guarantee the amendment of Article 1 of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6778	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6779	Just a very short one. So these families are also practically automatically entitled to child accessories. So they also get through a child's supplement, so that's not two different completely categories. I mean, that's how it was, and by now, of course, they were right. That's one thing. The other thing is, this is just their extra protection. For other people's help and care, the delay was 32 months, now it's 16 months, and we expect to be able to speed up more and we'll eliminate those back-up payments as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6780	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6781	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although this is the last law in the field of fiscal policy and labour - social legislation, in my opinion, given the situation in the economy and the overall relations in society, the state of what was past years and this situation that we have, that our economy is not working the way it was under us Socialists, and especially now after eight months, when the economic flows have died and when nothing is done, that in such a situation this law on amendments and amendments to the law in this area is the most important law and it should have been in the first place. For this reason, I believe that we should pay absolute attention to this law. In my comment on this finding, I would like to make the following arguments. If we have found that we have 720,000 unemployed people, who have remained unemployed for various reasons, and for the most part after NATO aggression and other reasons, as well as the application of the legislation that we have adopted these days from the field of fiscal policy and the burden on businesses, there will be another 200,000 to 250,000 workers without a job, from this finding where we will have unemployed persons who will not be able to find themselves in the budget of both the enterprises and the budget of the Republic, so that many of these people will be treated socially endangered citizens. To document this, I will show on the case of the Fireman, a municipality that currently has a double average of both in the economy and in the economy, or in the Republic, as the new legal solution provides. I can point out this example at, say, gathering citizens around one, say, a basic asset, which is called a container in the municipal area. More and more citizens are gathering around the container looking for something. Those in Firevac with 8,000 dinars of average in the economy are not looking for the heclare someone lost, because that weapon is forbidden to carry. There's this law on carrying guns and it's not to be worn under those conditions. Also, do not seek concrete iron, for concrete iron is not eaten. They're looking for bread. Bread is a desperate need, especially for this population here that is threatened. It is threatened because the cost of life is much more expensive. It's expensive, here's the basic supply of life, which in this population category is the most basic, and that's bread above all. If we take one such citizen of our country to buy that bread that should be 10 dinars, and for 10 dinars, that bread can't buy after 6:15 a.m., because that bread, the cheapest, is not 10% of the total amount of bread produced, but buys for 15.00 and more dinars. If we now take this current social aid, as it is called, for socially endangered persons, it is as much as it is, or by a brugo basis, which should amount to something more. If we compare that one such family or one member uses a kilo of bread a day, then you will see that they will give everything to this basic supply of life, and for the rest they have nothing. It's one example that we need to look at and see what this way of reckoning brings, and I think it's important for all of us to have socially endangered faces taken care of. It's not only in transition countries, but in all countries, both advanced and poor countries, and where we shouldn't normally belong. We should protect this category of population, and I think that this law should have more attention, that it should be in the first place. I thank the minister, who was very reasonable and reasoned to answer questions. I understand the minister, who certainly cannot provide the money, but I believe that these examples and these discussions that were here, as well as amendments submitted by the opposition MPs, give the right for the minister to propose to the government that they be more separate for this purpose. The paperwork is clear. Until we improve the situation in the economy, until we improve the situation in society, we still need to pay greater attention to social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6782	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6783	Since it's obvious that the question is whether these donations are adequate, I'd like to point out two things. Unfortunately, I don't have that information that 1,700 dinars was the last amount of material security for a five-member family, but I know it's 2,900 now, given that the cost of living index is 17%, as far as I know. Then we'll see that the real deal didn't go down. Of course, I'm quite sure you have that in mind, there have been seven, eight years of numerous international organizations, which have been largely giving to refugees, displaced persons, after the bombing, what they were giving, and that means after 1999. The majority of those who are socially endangered, based on the World Food Programme package, are included, either on the basis of popular cuisines opened by the International Red Cross. It's been working here for the third year. So, since social contributions were extremely small under the current law, as the average of the year was given for only a few months of these money donations, in fact for most of this population so far the basic way of survival was because they were being helped by humanitarian organisations. Their motivation to find themselves on the social, materially endangered family list was, among other things, much conditioned by the fact that they were then entitled, as a locally endangered population, to this aid. So it should be borne in mind that this aid has been maintained for the time being and that in addition to what we are now giving regularly and certainly, if we are not increasing, then in the same amount, that this population has that kind of help. In addition, as so far, they have largely been freed, as far as I understand and how much data we have, most municipalities give them certain discounts when it comes to paying bills for municipal services and electricity. So, in addition to what this machanism provides, in terms of direct giving, besides those who have children, of course getting child benefits, this population has, as so far, not lost those protection mechanisms.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6784	The People's Messenger Đura Lazic has the word, and after him, the MP Vladimir Garčević. It's the last reported, if there's anyone else, please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6785	Mr. President, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I will not talk about the details of the amendment and the addition of the law, nor did I, rightly say, propose an amendment, knew that it would not be accepted. I volunteered with a few sentences to direct a suggestion to the Minister, and to all of you, to help in a humane way, to help people not only who are socially endangered, but who are life-threatening. First of all, I think of Serbs and Montenegrins who are suffering severely in Kosovo and Metohija. A large number of people and families live in Kosovo and Metohija, a family whose members are not in labour, nor in state bodies, nor in health, nor in education, nor in local self-government, nor in UNMIK's organs. Many households have lived, and today they are trying to live off the land they are processing, and the fact is that today these people are not free to move, they are threatened with freedom of movement, even life, and in such a situation they are not able to go freely into the field and model, to sow, to live from it. I therefore urge that when implementing this law, I will not interfere in the amount, as most decide, so it will be, as proposed, but as much as it is proposed, I would ask that it be included, and there are records of those households that do not have any income for life, they do not have any members employed in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as those who are displaced, that they be included in this category of social assistance. There, not only to make a human gesture, to help these people socially, but above all, to those who survived in Kosovo and Metohija, as the state of Serbia we will prove that we have not forgotten them, that we have not left them. It won't be a big asset, but it'll mean a lot to these people. In particular, these people are now in a difficult situation after the adoption of this constitutional framework of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, which means another prank in our country and our people. This means the first step in giving Kosovo independence status, and this is all that has been going on for months in the south, strengthening terrorist attacks on our organs, it was only a direct and representative of the international community, as well as the top of terrorist organisations, to draw attention to the greater public, both global and domestic, that part, in order to push through the constitutional framework for self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, which is drastically harmful to Serbia and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6786	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6787	Displaced persons have the right to everything they have the right to and our citizens. You know that there is a problem of payment traffic, if that can be defined, among other things with Kosovo and Metohija. By the way, we had a few shipments of trucks, tow trucks, humanitarian aids, that went towards that population, and I have to say that some of them couldn't get through. There are very big problems, they start to get to some point, so they get them back, it's an extremely difficult situation, and it's hard that it can actually be solved through this law, but it's something that is important and what is meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6788	The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević and then by Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6789	The Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs, the Honorable Madam Minister, I would not now report that the promise, made here yesterday, was done. I expected this morning, when it came, to have the data, to compare whether the rights were reduced or not. I hope to receive such data during the day, that I will check them, and in the end, and deny myself. However, looking at the proposal to amend the Social Protection Act, it is seen that rights are also being reduced here. When we look at this article of the bill, if our claims are true about net, gross earnings, I'm talking about it now, then here, unlike earlier, straight from 1.680, are reduced to 1,290, which means that in the whole legal part of the law, they're shrinking. The rights of children's supplements are reduced, social assistance rights are reduced. I didn't say if it could be worth it or not, I'm talking about part of the law again. All the laws, those that go, net, gross earnings, I think Mr Djelic may also appear today, since he is the finance minister, but we also had Mrs Jezimirovic, it seems to me, who is an expert in finance, that the vote on this law should, as at yesterday, be postponed until that part is established. I hope the rights won't be reduced, and the alignment is another matter. I suggest we not vote on this law until the facts are delivered, see if the rights are reduced or not. If they stay on one level from before, right as law, then I'd probably vote for something like that, because maybe they can't do it anymore. Otherwise, I believe that we are obliged to tell the citizens of Serbia, that the rights for these and these reasons are reduced by 10, 15, 20 or 30%. I would also, since I had a double promise, and in my neighborhood it's said, the word is stronger than the law, I expect the two of you who promised yesterday to keep it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6790	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6791	So, as far as that promise is concerned, and I'm going to figure it out, and I'm going to bring it to you in 14 hours, because you know it wasn't working tonight, but it's exactly how it's calculated and calculated in the same way in all the laws. So, it's estimated that, based on the data in the last year, it's known what was profit, gross profit at the time, and the current profit, all of those rights were put in relation to that profit, they were put on the net, the coefficient was obtained, and that coefficient was applied. To make sure that nothing else would happen in those three months, we said that those three months would be a cost-of-life index, so we'll see if that's the case or not. Based on all that was available, we recalculated it, since we were forced to recalculate. One, based on which it could have been recalculated, could have been recalculated based on the previous period, because the future could be estimated, but I wouldn't have gotten into it. So in that sense, it exactly says that it's recalculated and there's nothing else you can give, but what's important is that as it's right in May, it means based on the existing law of net earnings, it's going to be maintained, which is in May.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6792	There is a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6793	Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps what Mrs. Matkovic said in response to the question of the predecessor, answers my question which I will ask, which I actually asked yesterday, but I was not satisfied with the answer I received yesterday. I thought the minister would come out with specific data, accurate data, to convince us and convince us that this bill is correct. It is, in fact, an inequality of the criteria applied in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, in the Law on Social Care for Children and in this last draft of the Law on Social Protection and Social Security of Citizens. Yesterday I said that in the first Law on Marriage and Family, the relationship between the rates that existed so far and the new ones around two, i.e. that the new rates were reduced by about twice. In the Law on Social Care for Children, this relationship is over three times, as is in this law that we are currently considering. I tried a little bit of math here on the basis of all this, although I expected the competent ministers in the previous days, when we discussed all these laws, to go public with concrete rates of contributions, so that we could know definitely and finally also we here, and the public in Serbia, what are these new rates of contributions to pension and health insurance, so that we could definitely get to that figure that represents profits under the new gross earnings system. So, it's all about conjecture, hypothesis, and we have to end up talking like that here. I tried to simulate all of this on one case. I'll take an example of an employee who currently has a net profit equal to the average profit in Serbia, meaning about 4,000 dinars, to be a little imprecise and to round it up. If he is employed with this salary of 4,000 dinars, the net profit of 4,000 dinars, if he is a maintenance provider, he must, according to the previous law that was put out of force, or amended, make 15%, and that amounted to 600 dinars. According to the new gross system, I'm introducing a hypothesis, the assumption that profits under this new system will be increased twice compared to the average net earnings, may be more than that, but I'm following the lowest base by a new system that's increased by about 100% or twice, so, under that assumption, profits will be about 8,000 dinars. If this amount applies to the new percentage of the 7% maintenance figure, which is adopted, it is 560 dinars and it is somewhere near that previous amount, i.e. this is real and this results in that neutrality in the financial respect, which is spoken of in the light of this law. If we apply all of this to the Law on Social Care for Children, the following data is given: a child's supplement for the first child in the old, now invalid law, it was 20% of the net average, or 20% of those 4,000 dinars, what is the net profit now, or 800 dinars. According to the new law, which was passed, the rate is 6% in terms of profit and if that profit is twice the amount of money, i.e. 8,000 dinars, this right is 480 dinars. The difference is evident and significant. It's about the difference in the criteria that are applied in these two laws, and the same goes for the one that we're looking at right now, because these are also reduced by three and over three times. I would like us to finally get concretely these rates, to know already once in Serbia what it is to earn from a new accounting system, and one of the laws says that the obligation of the finance minister is to work, etc. to adopt it by the end of the month and normally publish it in public. I think we should have had that before we move on to all these laws, that it is demonstrated here on one occasion, that both the MPs here and the public are convinced that what it says is in the explanation, that this financial neutrality is provided, and not that, based on some hypothesis and assumptions, we're actually criticising maybe something that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6794	Minister Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6795	Right, the rates of contributions haven't been made yet, and that's as much a problem for all of us as it is for you, but it's our fault, if this is about guilt. So that's what we of course have to bring, those rates of contribution, and last time I said that the recalculations are still going on, and obviously that's the problem, and for me, especially because I thought that the question of what the net, gross earnings and basics are going to be solved where they belong, and that's in the Labour Act. It wasn't easy for me to follow your bill, of course, since you've made it, as it probably won't be easy for you to follow mine, but I think this will be easy to follow in the next sense, that if we look at the reasoning of laws and assumptions, or historical data, of which both of them are going to be able to calculate what they need to calculate, we'll see that both of them, so the social security of citizens and of marriage, which I didn't bring, came from the fact that gross earnings were calculated in the course of the previous year at 5,387 dinars. To make a commitment in these donations, not to change, then it was put in relation to what giving is and what is net and what is gross profit. And when it was determined in the Marriage and Family Act, if we look at the explanation, we'll see that the same figures were given as gross earnings in 2000, and it was 5,387 dinars. On that basis, all calculations have been made. That's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6796	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6797	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have amendments and additions to the Social Protection and Social Security Act. Another law that regulates the funds of payments from the budget to the users. All the laws so far include one finding, when it comes to procedures from citizens to the budget, it's three or four times more. When going from budget to users, then the percentages are reduced and the use of soup by the user is reduced or the same as in the previous period. When the budget is increased by three times, and that's not how much the fees go to the users, where that difference is. Where are we going with that money? Shouldn't an empty space be left for ministers to fund whatever they want. In this law, users are the ones who need help. They're poor people, weary, unprepared and incapable of helping themselves. At the current price of drugs, what we offer people isn't enough for drugs. One drug is from 200 to 300 dinars in the pharmacy, and I think this little money that these users get won't be enough for drugs either. I think it should be more. The minister or government must surely find a mechanism to increase it. There are probably different opinions, but in social incomes, and if we increase them, it wouldn't be enough for those users. Who thinks these people should reduce giving and supporting, these kind of faces, that God gives and lives by other people's care and welfare. And this is how hard it is to live on someone else's help, so I'm asking you to exploit the percentages and get these people, along with the drugs, to have some money left for them and bread. In the end, users are not interested in percentages, not gross, not net, but in what they receive and whether they can survive. It's true and the real name was found in this material, in this law, and it's someone else's care. It's always said in our people that it's hard when someone else helps you. That's why I suggest we make the effort and at least make these people better these hard days. I'd still say that this time and by this law, we don't have to deprive them of their rights, and that later conditions are made that can be paid even more, if that's the case, we won't have a mechanism to pay for it. Today, MEPs from the European Union have received one leaf, which says how much money they will give us, where they will give everything, etc. If they get here and that kind of money, we won't have a mechanism to share it with those people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6798	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If no one is answering for a word anymore, I would like to put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Protection Act and ensuring the social security of citizens in principle. For 125, against 34, there were no abstentions, no 24 votes, a total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6799	In principle, the SRS parliamentary group has already said everything it thinks about this law. Since we have tried to convince you to give users of these funds more rights and we have failed to do so, I withdraw my amendment. Just, Madam Minister, when you share a job at the Ministry and you let them calculate percentages, give it to one man every time. Because 30% of yesterday is 32%, 15% of yesterday was 18% yesterday, and it's the same amounts, the same profits, the same basics and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6800	I find Mr. Vucurovic has withdrawn the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 121, a abstentioned one, 14 of the 185 MPs attended in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. I understand that Mr. Nikolic has withdrawn the amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. ) (The People's MP withdraws the amendment. I find Mr. Vujic has withdrawn the amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I submit an amendment to Article 3(1). Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act. You won't be thirsty and hungry, we'll see. They say, "Incomes made per municipality employee, or city," they are replaced by the words, "Increasings earned by employees in the Republic." The explanation - material security is adjusted quarterlyly, according to the movement of the average monthly earnings achieved in the municipality's economy, or the city, in each quarter compared to the previous quarter, after the publication of official statistics and the user pays the difference, which should be replaced - that they are paid quarterlyly on the basis of the earnings achieved in the Republic. Based on this article, there is also an inequality of the right to social protection and social security from one municipality to another, which leads to an unequal position of citizens in the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vladan Batic and Dusan Mihajlovic -- CIA servants -- are likely to receive a reward together, which will send a large number of Serbs to The Hague. They should be handed over by Carly del Ponte, we Serbs say - not to take a nut out of her hand, let alone to give it to our countrymen. No one burns until dawn, neither will theirs nor will yours. There goes Kosovo and Metohija, brothers and sisters of Serbs, you are betrayed by DOS power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6802	Shall we go back to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6803	This law on social protection and the provision of social security for citizens has created such anomalies, which has reduced the supplement, namely: material security of the family, care allowance and assistance to another person, training assistance for work, accommodation in an institution or other family and social work services - so this law introduces a major inequality of additions to municipalities in the Republic. That is why this amendment should evenly add to the entire territory of the Republic. Instead of begging in the white world, we should turn to our economy and our work, and I believe that we should not be left out of the right results. Also, I think we should engage the entire intellectual potential of this country, which is great and real. That's why I think this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6804	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been in a situation where, with my proposals or with my amendments, I can't change what I think should be changed. I suppose that will be the case now, but at least let it remain for the majority of the assembly, and also for the minister, to think - do we now share the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we may indirectly harm the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by saying that the level of social security for the Republic of Serbia is not one, but for each municipality is different, although we know very well that the price of bread in the whole Republic is identical. Look, whoever receives this help from Articles 1 and 4 is mostly thinking about bread, basic provisions of life, a pair of shoes in a few years. These are the products that are available to him because, or there is no income, so these are the only receipts, or there are so little incomes that it has to be complemented to some level of social security, and then it turns out that we are not human to citizens in the other municipalities, or we are too human to those who live in big cities, so we say to them, yes, to you, the level of social security is not only to buy bread and one shoe in a few years, but also to pay for steam heating. And in a small, undeveloped municipality, he can't even dream of having any additional services and I think that this bill is actually a proposal for a catch, and it's supposed to be an editorial proposal. So if we want some social security, let's get them all equal. This isn't profit, this isn't dependant on personal work, this is a state, the state has certain resources at its disposal, it's projected them by budget. They should be transferred to the same amount to the users, and she now says - well, it depends whether you live in Lapova, or live in Subotica, or live in Belgrade. I think I've talked about it before, of course, it takes a man to have a majority to achieve something. I don't think this is the law that should regulate this matter in this way, and I think it's time we even the rights. If it were the transfer of municipalities to the statutes to regulate these rights, then I could agree that the municipality, depending on how rich it is, how much income it has, how many natural resources it has, that it can, possibly, coordinate those rights, so that it can predict a higher threshold, or lower, but depending on the possibility. But when the Republic of Serbia lays down its rights by law, it should not leave it to introduce the principle of unbalanced development of certain regions, because this law does not aim to it, and this law cannot bring it straight, to balance unbalanced environments in Serbia. So if someone receives from the social aid of 1,500 dinars, it should be in one municipality, and in another, in the east and west, north in the south, and this law, unless the amendment is accepted, will not be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6806	There's a minister's word, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6807	You, Mr. Nikolic, are absolutely right. It's something I've talked about more than once in public, I think it's what the media reported. So, in the solution so far, there's this problem that doesn't just apply to this right, which in a different way protects families, depending on where they live, and it's certainly one of the things that we're going to change. But why doesn't it change now -- well, here, I'll tell you why: because we have something that we've calculated before, when we had to recalculate, when the budget was being passed, when we calculated what our budget commitments are to our users. To increase your budget commitments to one user, you must reduce them to others. I think it's completely and completely clear. We don't want to get involved if we don't know if we can honor those obligations. In order to know what obligations, or what is what needs to be reduced, in order for something to increase, we need to look at the system in general, and I hope that's where you agree. Because we have a very large number of rights, which are financed from social protection. It's not just this right to material security for the family. It's the most obvious. When someone asks you who is protected, you first talk about those who are social cases. We have the right to other people's care and help, we have foster families, where 2,000 children are without social ageing, we have 65 institutions, where children are without parental ageing, where homes are for old people and homes for mentally retarded persons. We have centres for social work all over Serbia, which work with families who have problems in functioning, in divorce, with children with mental problems. There's a lot of pressure. Yesterday we spoke, I talked to one MP about the need for disabled children to be further protected, if they live in the family, especially if we have a vision, and I think it's important for all of us, to have as few children in the institutions as possible, to keep the children in the family. When it comes to disabled children, it's not just a matter of material giving, but it's also a matter of material giving. There are a large number of additional rights and additional needs now that we could protect, but let's see what these rights are now. Yesterday I talked to one MP about it, and I said, "We're having a big problem, we're trying to figure out what the number of children with disabilities is." You know, that kind of data in Serbia doesn't know. And so let's see, within one concept, what our priorities are and whether they're disabled children, is that, if we want to move our children from institutions to foster families, and we have to keep the institutions on this existing level, because we can't stop them all at once, so that's where we have these so-called. transition costs, which mean crossing from one system to another. Is that more important to us, that children who are housed in institutions are still placed in families? There are a lot of open questions. I agree that this is one of the issues that are also important and that are somewhere in the system of what we are thinking. It's safe to go in the direction of centralization. But until we look at all these questions, I mean, as serious people, we're not able to tell now who we need to give priority to, if we don't have data on how many children are disabled, and they're in families that need extra protection. I think kids like that deserve protection. So that's one possibility. Another possibility is the use of a centralised criterion, which is also important to us. The third option is, do families they have have children at all, do they now give more to single mothers? It's a whole system that we now, if we disrupt only in certain parts, then we're going to be in a very serious situation. To tell you the truth, what would be brought now would be the question tomorrow - why not these. There are many vulnerable groups in our society, there are many vulnerable groups in every society. So in order for us to see where we need to make priorities, we need to first have a clear picture of what needs are, and then we're going to talk about whose needs are greater. (President: Time. ) Whether the needs of military people are greater, or the needs of disabled children are greater, or the needs of children who are in the institution or who are greater in different municipalities with different levels of censorship. Of course, we will, since it is the government's task, when we have all relevant information, go to the Assembly and we will surely have our proposal. I'm sure you'll have a chance to make a recommendation on that proposal. We've already been able to suggest something partial, but I think a partial system change can do us great harm. Now you're saying it's a very small amount. Yesterday we talked about the need to be more help with the baby's equipment, so we said it was a very small amount. We were talking about an allowance for the disabled kids, so we said there's a small amount. You know, these are really very serious questions. I don't think these are questions where we should even talk about the way some other questions are discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6808	Mr. Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6809	It's possible that if we had a little more time and you had a little more nerve, maybe we could open this up and discuss it. We have touched Madam Minister, who is obviously a scientific subject and she has opened her heart to the MPs. I have to say, there's a lot of things about me that can be said and it's a lot and it's true, but it can't be said that I'm soulless or I'm hasty. So this story of yours about the social status of many categories of citizens and disabled children is true, but I didn't want to invite you in any way to talk about it, nor did I think that these categories should now be taken away from any right. This amendment doesn't take away anyone at all. If you have 16% of the average earnings in each municipality, in 192 municipalities, as many as there are, that's 16% of the income in the Republic again. That's where you get the same number. I just asked it to be a criterion for every municipality, not that the municipality of its average profit, let's say, 16%, determines, to say that it has a right or that it has no right. There's no spilling money. Of the same money that's been allocated in the budget, from, say, 300 million dinars that have been allocated to the same amount these years. There's no one to take and no one to add. That was the only reason. Of course, whenever you want to pass a law here that increases rights and donations, if you find the funds, you will always have the support of the Serbian Radical Party, and for others, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6810	The word is Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6811	There seems to be, in part, a misunderstanding here. It's not just a problem for individuals to win in these municipalities. It's just part of the problem. There's another problem that means introducing a new right, so it's not just possible for this redistribution. If that were possible, then that would be fine. Because it's not just the amount of giving that's tied up, but the thing is whether you're right or not is about the community. Then that means a new right. If only this were the first one, then it would be possible to divide and then the situation would be simpler. It's more complicated this way. So there's a place where it's low and they don't have a right, because law depends on what the municipal average is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6812	I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 49, against 130, the two abstentions, did not vote 8 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6813	I'm not giving up on this amendment, but not because I think you'll accept it, but to tell you where you have the money to increase the amount for social contributions. You have it in the budget reserve that, however, doesn't exist in any deficit budget, but it exists with you. You have thirteen billion. I don't see where you'd spend them if you didn't see them anywhere. Then let's get into social giving, because it's the only thing he can't make his own money for. Many budget beneficiaries can provide additional resources with additional work, but no work can be provided here. Not to mention the other amounts that are under paragraphs -- special purpose funds, and not just to talk about means that would ensure that 40% remain. They're at the Ministry of Education, for the reform of education, which they certainly won't reach. That's where 50 million dinars are scheduled. About, that would be enough until this amount has changed. He's got funds in his budget. It is also in reserve, and it is for special purposes, and it is in what you expect. Now it's no longer an account or a matter of opportunity, it's now, according to what you've been telling us and according to what they promised you, it's only a matter of goodwill now. I don't know how much of those six billion dollars you got in your ministry, but that part of six billion dollars needs to be shared by the social beneficiaries. Of those six billion, it looks like nobody got anything. I can't even accept that you lied to me that much. If you'd lied to me about 100 million and 200 million, I could say you lied to me a little bit, but six billion! No beneficiary of the budget got any of that. Give it here where no one can make any extra money. Give me some money.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6814	Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6815	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the facts are very different from the description of our intentions expressed by the opposition representatives. So, after seven years of disorderly paying off funds on this basis, a 26-month debt was created. Right, that's what I said, but it needs to be repeated. Some act as if for the past 10 years they weren't even observers of what was happening in this country, let alone the creators of our disaster. (Apaluz. ) From November to May of the month we returned 26 months behind, we regularly pay our dues and at the same time increase the rights that have been expressed among other things and through the fact that it is no longer taken as a basis for profit in the economy, but for profit in the Republic. That's what this country can offer its citizens at the moment. Why so, we can talk, but not about this amendment and not about this law. We have before us the next item of the agenda - the final account for 2000, in which we will be able to see how the funds were spent. As for the budget reserve, it exists and will be spent in accordance with the planned reform procedures to be brought into this assembly. In any case, this amendment is essentially unacceptable and it practically does not involve any changes. This is an amendment that avoids a fact that speaks of the financial neutrality of the proposed changes. These are the arguments that we can go out with and try to explain to you every time that it has nothing to do with six billion dollars that you've caught up with as if someone had said that six billion dollars would be paid to the SRS budget. If you've been touched by the flag, it doesn't mean you'll be touched by the world. I'm sure it won't be like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6816	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6817	I'm not the one who pulled you out of DOS by the tongue that you promised the people six billion dollars. It was your only asset in the election campaign, and the most important one is the one who's won this election and you know very well how tight the elections were, and where you won for the first time. Now that you've promised six billion dollars, now bring them into the country and you deploy them, the opposition will not interfere with you at all. If the people knew you were going to pass laws like this, they wouldn't have voted for you. It is not true, and I don't know how Mr. Jovanovic's right to present false information. First, how come you've been tied to power since November, Mr. Jovanovic? When it comes to responsibility, you say we're only 100 days in power, and when there's a way to talk about what was in 2000, you immediately insert both November and December 2000. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Then the payment began. Well, that's when the SPS did it, she was with you in power. Why don't you admit what this is about: 19 wars were paid last year, 19 was still long. It's not 26 long and it's never been 26. It's half split. Some months paid from 1998, some from 1999, and some from 2000, some stayed, and I don't even know what system was so colorful. It wasn't the year after year, it was the walk. You, Mr. Jovanovic, cannot tolerate one working atmosphere in this assembly. As soon as you see that the atmosphere is working, that it is working, and it seems to me at the pace at which one assembly is to work, you are complicating relations in the Assembly, you are challenging the MPs of the opposition just to get an otium in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the DOS presidency, and then it could prove that you are right that there will be no TV transmission, that you are right what the Assembly will be able to do and if there is no quorum. I don't know what we're challenging Mr. Jovanovic to come out here for a pay phone and then ask us not to answer the charges brought here. A thousand times he's come out to accuse an entire opposition block in this room. We'll go out a thousand times now to tell him he's wrong, and that kid has no right to be serious people, who have always done the most serious things that I can complain about. Especially not that six billion dollars should be given to the SRS. When we talked about it at all. Who has introduced the six billion dollars as a term into political practice in the Republic of Serbia. DOS. (From Hall: You.) DOS. (From Hall: You.) DOS. My dear gentlemen, liars, every one of you who said they'd come 6 billion dollars is a liar.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6818	I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 47, against 128, no one abstained, voted 5, a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic to Article 4th. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For 45, against 128, no one abstained, voted 11, a total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Bozidar Vujic submitted to Article 4 of the First Amendment, in the same text. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment tabled proposed a percentage greater amount than what the Government had proposed. In their explanation, the individual DOS representative, who was elected by the government, said that this law, by changing these percentages and only the termological changes, are neutralising the effects, the negative effects that could be the elements of the law. Now, where is the point: if we know that the budget that has been harassing this government wanted to pick up four times as much as last year's budget; if we know that we don't already know, and many of you don't know where that money is, those 6 billion that you promised Serbian citizens before the elections, only you don't know who took it yourself, and they're meant to be supporting the budget; if you're saying in pre-election activities that you're going to apply all economic, fiscal and other root reforms and change the situation in society for the better, so now you're asking the question of what's better. This law only changes termologically the terms net to gross, average to economy and average in the Republic and percentage to gross. Where's the point? Have you promised the citizens of Serbia, when you come to power, it will be better. With you Serbia is going into suspense, with you Serbia will be integrated into Europe and will be better for all of us in life. How do you show this through this law that you're better? Nothing new, you're not essentially bringing anything. You suppress some neutral effects, you change terms, that's what you do. That, by the way, is DOS. How this ministry, as this government, has no hearing or anything else at all, can be said, or "also", that they don't have it for this item that we want to fix with this amendment, we members of the SRS, which is a supplement for the help and care of the other person, while you said you even wanted to curb the grey economy. Are these persons who need this help and care, who have come to this social scale to depend on this social assistance and care, to depend on this Serbia, to actually depend on the ministry and on this government, whether you are silent towards them. If you are silent towards them, then the only argument that should follow is that Serbia should soon be gone and that its impotence, for what you have offered, shows in the next elections, is not giving a voice, not having a voice for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6820	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6821	So we're silent to the extent that we're paying regularly what that right means. Otherwise I'd like to say, there's an unusual situation, and that's actually that this kind of right exists on multiple points in the system, that there's definitely a need to unite within a single system and then that these givings are consistent. I must say that, too, what is giving to this population, since payouts have been accelerated, has been reduced from 32 to 16 months. I have to, Mr. Nikolic, tell you that I personally was the minister who signed it, and I'm sorry it all paid off through the donation, but it paid off with Switzerland and with the Government of Great Britain. The Ministry of Disability for Family Material Security gave and I don't think that's really a central issue. So it's important that in this year people get what they haven't been able to get before and that, therefore, they will have better protection in this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6822	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6823	With the undeniable sympathy that the Minister has earned here, as the first normal man, the minister who spoke to this government, I still have to tell you, I'll appreciate you, I'll appreciate your work on how much money is provided in the budget and distributed to the users. The fact that some charity comes from those who broke us up before that, it's at least, on their part -- I don't blame you for that -- it's cynic, and it's like someone beats up a kid, so let him have a candy so he doesn't cry. I don't admit it, those donations and their help. Our children shouldn't have done anything if they hadn't kept us in a cage for 10 years and didn't bomb us so savagely. However, I think this will reduce the government's expenditures of the Republic of Serbia, or at least not monitor other costs of life, including growth in earnings, and also growth in budgets, as planned. I read more and more in the paper that some of your co-workers and helpers in implementing the October Revolution are threatening to drag back, now not just one banger, but 19, 30, so much, and I have to comment on that from the SRS point of view, it's inconclusive, at least for two reasons. The first is that we will always try to bring you down here in the elections, and secondly, to tell those heroes that your government, your parliament and your president are no longer in Belgrade. The government is located in Brussels where NATO is based, the president is in Washington, where he conducts when he comes, a Donor's Conference when, when someone goes to prison, and I don't believe that our poor woman, who stands up against these laws, has technical opportunities to move to a place where they're supposed to invade a congregation or bring down a government, a team waiting for them there to be police who wouldn't let them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6824	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 121 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This ended the search of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? No, there's been enough debate. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Protection Act and ensuring the social security of citizens in general. For 123, against 47, the abstentions did not vote eight, and a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act. We'll continue work at 3:30. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please determine if we have a quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2000. YOU have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Finance Committee. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The word is Mr Djelic, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6826	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to talk to you about the final account of the 2000 budget. This law is to some extent different from other laws, because it has a affirmative character. He also needs your vote, and I will ask you on behalf of the government to vote for the law today, confirming the state of public finances in the Republic of Serbia last year. I'd just like to draw your attention to two key points. First, by looking at this final account and this extensive material, which we have provided you with, because this is a new assembly of the Assembly and we wanted to thank and thank our Service for preparing such extensive and exhaustive material, so that you may have a very detailed insight into what was going on in the government register last year. So I'd like to say a few words first about the essence of that budget, and perhaps less about formalities, because these laws have been passed very quickly in the past few years, because it was generally considered a formality. So I'd like to talk a little bit first about the essence of this budget last year and the same, and that material will be delivered to you during this session, to talk about what was suggested. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I suggested several weeks ago a report on the finding of financial and material business control and the legal and dedicated use of budgets by ministries and republican authorities and organisations. Although the legislator did not ask the government, as we committed a few weeks ago, we would like to present to you today the first results of that control that was carried out on that budget, at that spending, on that state register, to see and see together whether it was all purposeful, whether it was all legal. The result, unfortunately, is puzzling and we'll talk about it in a few minutes. Let's look at the first point and see what that budget was like. First of all, if you look at what was called the formal -- the budget of the Republic of Serbia -- it was planned, as far as income is concerned, 28.9 billion dinars, and the revenues achieved were 31.5 billion dinars, which is nominally 9% more than the plan. But when you know that this budget was planned with one zero inflation rate for 2000, and that was 116%, we see that the revenue side went very badly, and that's a set of different things, but it's obvious that the execution of the budget on the income side was probably the worst and I think I can say the worst in this decade. If you look at what was happening on the receiving side, as we had the opportunity to discuss at the time of adoption of the 2001 budget, say that the income was 31.5 billion dinars not showing the whole truth, away from it, away from that, because there should be two things, and here we come to what was wrong in our income side and what was corrected by the fiscal reform this year, which you voted for a few weeks ago. It is that in the special accounts and in accordance with the authority of only the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it means that without your authority, without your control, the honourable MPs have been gathered by our citizens another 4.8 billion dinars. There is still the collection of public revenues, and that you and our people were not timely informed, there was no public debate, there was neither a decision, nor a cross-referencing opinion, as was the case in the real debate about the revenue side we had this year. That's not all, because if we look at what was going on on the bulky side, this budget, if you look at it in accounting, it looked 31 billion on the income side, so 32 billion on the bulky side, I'll go back to it, it looked a little smaller than it actually was. In fact, the income side was 51 billion, because with what I said and you see in the material, there were additional special accounts that actually significantly increased the amount of tax collection, taxis and various taxes, and even 40% of what was collected did not go through the normal democratic procedure and there was a lack of last year and the revenue side and that budget, and that is one major deficit. As far as spending goes, it's the same thing. All these special accounts, these dedicated fees were spent on some special programmes, and as the income side didn't know everything, and it didn't go through one normal democratic procedure, and we'll talk more carefully about it when we talk about this control and these results, it was also much less controlled and knew what was going on in these dedicated expenditures, which were as many as 14.5 billion dinars, where it was spent for various purposes, and that when Parliament voted for the budget last year, it didn't explicitly give you and the whole nation knew. So that's one big problem with this last budget, which can't be shown in this bill, the final bill, but I'd like to present with this first thing a little bit and the essence of what happened last year. Another thing I would like to point out is that when you look at the assumptions that this budget was made by, we see that we had a public finance management that wasn't suitable for a normal European state. Last year, if we know what the situation was in 1999 and the difficulties our country was in, it was planned, however, believe it or not, that inflation would be zero in the budget. Neither in the European Union nor in much more orderly and stable countries are ever planning zero inflation, but those who prepared the budget for next year planned zero. What does that mean, essentially? This means essentially that the state initially planned not to plan enough funds for some budget users, according to how much inflation should have been, and when you look at what it really was, it was 116% last year and most of all because at one point all those prices that two and a half years had been under administrative control and therefore many budget users could not achieve their rights in one real meaning, because formally when the budget was planned, it was not planned on some real basis. The third thing I'd like to mention and that's the last thing in this first point I've mentioned, that's it. What the essence of this budget is, it is that he simply, even in such assumptions, did not give what he promised to the budget users. We have already noted this and let me remind you: October last year simply children's allowances were not paid for two years; peasant pensions were not paid for three years. Because that budget was very badly implemented on the revenue side and that many of the revenues that were to go through the budget, and that they gave money to those who had legal rights, they did not go to those persons, but they went to those who had intended fees, and in the use and use of these dedicated taxis, and we'll see in a few minutes, there were big, even non-purpose and illegal, things. That is why this budget cannot, as it has been implemented under difficult circumstances, be considered a democratic budget, because it has not gone through your control, either in adoption or in execution. And if we look at the way he ended up, we see that that's where one cycle ends. As you can see, in the final account, it was even planned, as was the previous years, to cover up the truth, which is that we have a deficit, and we have had a deficit all these years in the budget. But if this deficit were to be covered up in an accounting manner, one of many ways was to use the January moon, and it certainly would have been, I'm sure, that the government had not changed, that is, exploited January, and these revenues for January are used to cover expenditure for December of the previous year. So it was in the 2000 budget, and that's why he only covered for the period from February 1st to December 31st, but we stopped the execution and said, as in all normal countries, let's see where we are in that year. And, of course, there was one deficit of a billion and some dinars. It's just one of the kind that's been hiding from the nation and from you that we actually have a deficit, that we have a lot more arrests on the side of the state, than she wanted to admit in the budget, that she spends much less because she's going with some unreal assumptions and because she doesn't, because she has special accounts for those who have regulated some rights by law. And because of that, if we look at this final account, I honestly want this to be the last one, and that's how it's going to be this year, that's done, that's over on these bases. I hope you could see through this vast material those functions that our budget finance, because the budget is one noble thing. Everything didn't rot in our public finances. They were simply mishandled. There are good laws and well-organized things, and when you look at what the budget needs to finance, and it will fund them this year, we see that it is an extremely important element of our public life and our economic life, and believe me, the government will, as well as the whole team and I personally, fight to carry out what is scheduled, because there are very important things for our country. These taxes, which everyone now knows, which everyone can control, go to exactly who they're meant to, because there are no more hidden accounts, no more special purposes. Now we know what this money is spent on, and if we're going to have a deficit, we know exactly how much it's planned for. If we don't get those incomes we're counting on, we know exactly what expenditure we're going to reduce and what priorities we're going to run. I hope this budget for 2000 is the last one you'll vote for on a base like this and it'll certainly be the last one. I have already mentioned it once, but I would like to repeat -- in the next few weeks, the government of the Republic of Serbia will send you a proposal for a bill on budgetary procedure, where this matter will be further settled. So you, as MPs, will have even more control over how the budget is made, how it is adopted, and more importantly, how it is implemented. That allows me to move on to another point I wanted to expose you to. It is that an integral part of that final account report will also be the budget control report. You'll get that document during this session. Here I want to show you a few elements, which were promised at the time you voted for the 2000 budget, which is the state in which we found the state register and where that budget control came from. First of all, I'd like to point out how she came to be. The public revenue and expenditure law requires budgetary control. But if you look again at something that is formality, and what is reality, you see a huge gap. In Serbia for the entire budget register, which is the largest cash register in our country, we only had five people. Just five. That's less than there's been some exaggeration. These people had neither the equipment nor the decision, nor even the ability to do what they were formally designated to control whether money from the state register was spent on purpose and on the law. It can even be said that they were primarily asked, and there were far too few, to interfere as little as possible in this business. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia, at its meeting of February 6th, decided that the Ministry of Finance and Economy is in charge, a budgetary inspection within it, that, with the help of the financial police, the RUJP, including the people of the PDO, should take the job. Simply, when you have only five budgetary inspectors, you don't have enough people to do the job and so, thanks to their cooperation, and we thank them on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the PDO and RUJP, we have managed to put together a team of 43 people. Many of them were former SDKs, who were together 10 to 15 years ago and did the job, and they were very busy doing the job. I want to thank them again, because they've been working on this for days and nights, and I have a very high opinion of what they're doing. Very carefully and professionally doing what they're in charge of. For now, the inspection has been carried out in 14 ministries, republican authorities and organisations. I will not list the entire list, but above all there is the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Justice and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Labour and Employment, the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development, the Interimly Greater AP of Kosovo and Metohija, the Directorate for Regional Development of the Republic of Serbia - Pristina, the Directorate for the Reconstruction of the Country, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Directorate for Joint Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and finally the Commissioner for Refugees of the Republic of Serbia. But that's not the end of it. There are 14 major organs left. In about three or four weeks, I'll be back in front of you, when that job and the second part is done, to give you the full results of that job. But for now, they covered the job from February 1st 2000, when it started this budget for 2000, until January 25th 2001. So, a little longer and even very close to the moment they started working. It's just the beginning. This service and this team that started the work is just the beginning of a strong service that we will form at the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which will be that control of which little will and will be taken into account, which is professional and which shows everyone that and how closely it monitors, is careful, controls what is done in that state register, because every public income dinar is hard to obtain. Every penny of public income is one dollar less for our people, and it's very important that these people know how well to control it, that they know what they're doing with that money. This is why the inspection of January 25th of this year, as it is about budget control for 2000, began, and will continue when this budget job is completed for 2000, or will control and implement the 2001 budget, immediately. There's no commitment between -- before, or -- late. They will work professionally, regardless of the date on which the facts apply. I'd like to point out a few more facts now. First, when you start that job, you see to what extent our government is destroyed. That's what we in the government see every day. It may well have been possible, and to a large extent, it did not want to invest and develop this state administration. Look, I'm going to point out just a few important factors that are and how they made it difficult for the service to work and the inspection. First, budget users in the last 10 years have not been controlled. The important ones weren't controlled. Control was primarily for local self-government, and there was some ministry controlled, but in the last 10 years there has been no serious undertaking to control what's going on in the state register. There's a little methodology and a little habit. Secondly, if you look at what the budget users were doing, they transferred a significant part of their resources to other users and legal entities, bodies and organisations, while at the same time not providing sufficient support and security for their funds. We had, if you will, and it wasn't all intentionally illegal, but it was already very bad habits and we have to go actively against them. Many budget users make it easy for them to give money to other organisations without having control and monitoring of the funds that exist in a democratic country. That's why there's very little paperwork. Third thing, the documentation to determine the actual state is pretty weak. Her credibility and inconsistencies are quite eclectic. I can even say, unfortunately, that there have been cases when this inspection, the destruction of some documents, or attempts to replace or change the documentation in the walk. Fourthly, if we look at business books and other mandatory records, unfortunately, we have seen at every turn that there was not enough professionalism or mastership. It is rare to find some service and to keep records of what it has and what it has. The fifth thing is, which is also a fact that it was also necessary in many cases to use additional information, cross-control, spatial control, to determine what a real fact state is. Finally, it was hard for those who were controlled, because a good part of this control was done at the time of the final account, and there was a lot of work. Now, if we look at what's next, as I said, before I make a few details of what's been done, we're going to start working on other authorities' control and budget control for 2001. But also, as part of the Commission for Abuses, we will continue to work at those former years, so from 1989 to 1990, we will not stop at that. We've tracked down a lot of things, and we're not gonna stop until it's all clear. What is the situation - first of all, I want to say that the effects of control and the measures we have taken have come to some amazing knowledge. If we remember that the budget, for example, is for, if you add these special accounts, there were about 50 billion dinars, something more, there were deficits, then let's see these first findings, so only in 14 ministries, organs and services we came up with the results that were coming, and in just these three months, how long this control was going on. First, unintended use of funds amounted to 1,300,000 dinars. The illegal spending of funds amounted to nearly 400,000 dinars. (Employer from the O.R.: Terrible.) () Absolutely scary, sir, absolutely, extremely scary, because that money is state money, and it's nobody's private money. Behind that they hide, sir, the money they were supposed to spend on health care, on children who were supposed to be treated by leukemia, that's where they are. [[Applause]] There is money to be spent on those affected by the earthquake, and not spent on them, there are many illegal things, sir, and how terrible it is. [[Applause]] If we move on to the purposeless use of solidarity funds, it's another billion dinars, and unpaid taxes and contributions and other public revenues are 40.6 million dinars. [[Applause]] Now, when you face such a situation, of course not all can be corrected immediately, justice can not suddenly go everywhere and come, but these services of the MUP, in contact with the judges, have gone to control, controlled entities by means of a solution and restitution of non-intentional and unlawfully spent funds, against the responsible persons in those bodies will be filed criminal charges. For the time being, according to the facts, there are 12 criminal charges, seven applications for a commercial offence and five requests for a misdemeanour procedure. Sir, stealing from the state register is even worse, even scarier than stealing from one economic operator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6827	There's a word Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6828	Mr. President, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 98(1) and Article 201, paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 have been violated. We are, in fact, invited here today to discuss the draft budget bill for 2000. We had a representative of the government, who said the final budget account should be accepted, and then he set out for a whole new agenda, for which the opposition MPs have no material at all. Then he talked about what wasn't on the agenda, and I, Mr. President, asked you why he wasn't warned about it. And another thing, Mr. President, you know how the government is reporting, on whose request, which report should be reviewed when the report is placed on the agenda, which I want to just say a few words here -- reacting to the step-up of Minister Djelic, not reacting to what he makes up for in a loud voice, I don't care. However, Minister Djelic here has suggested major crime, non-intentional spending of funds, and he suggests that we adopt the final budget bill for 2000. You know, if there are such malfeasances, why are we adopting the Final Budget Account Act? Let's find out first, because I'm nowhere in the material, and I've read the whole bill, I haven't read that there have been any malversions, in the whole law, and there's no malversion in all the reasons. Of course, you laugh, you get the report of this budget control, you prepare for the discussion on that report, you laugh ridiculously, as Neda Arneric does, and she's been chewing on some gum for the third hour, but I'm asking you, if you're already so open to debate, why didn't you share it with the MPs of the opposition? It's a sign that you're afraid - why? Because if you called Peru Peric in that material, I'd like to see his statement about it, not for you to come out here, Mr. Minister, shame on you, and to mention children who have leukemia. What's the matter with you, so you haven't learned from the radicals the way you should behave in the Assembly. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Be gentlemen, be dignified. This is not done in Serbia, Mr. Minister, we know very well what problems individuals have, and we don't mention it here. But what you're doing is really unremarkable. Either we talk about the final budget bill, or we talk about a report, in which certain people are marked, marked as people who have purposelessly spent state money, people's money, budgets, stealing, kidnapping, and doing all that is illegal. So please tell us, Mr. President, do you participate in this court, on March 15th, we received a bill on the final budget bill, did you know that there is only some division of the material in the session today? Do you know that we are not ready to discuss this material, do you know that this material was not on board. What's wrong with you, Nedo? Steve, you're a serious man, is there something on me that... (Employee Stevan Kesejic, from the place: No. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6829	I ask you to stop throwing away, and I ask Mr. Nikolic to finish. Let's be clear, gentlemen of the people's MPs, first of all, there's no reason for us to fall into such a fierce and completely unnecessarily fierce duo, because there's really no reason for that. And the greatest insubordinations of earlier authorities, and the greatest mistakes of today's government, can be brought forth in an argument, stable and without each other's insults. So, please, let's get back to work, just like we did before noon. (Freedan Tomovic is asking for a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You'll get your word for it, for God's sake. Why the anxiety, the high pressure, sit down, please, and you'll get your word. To be clear, I'm wondering if I'm involved in any of the business here and what's on the agenda. It's clear what's on the agenda. The bill on the final bill you got when all the MPs got it. Today, the information prepared for the MPs arrived. She doesn't adopt, she can use anyone. I don't know if anyone here has won, maybe someone extremely. You're getting excited, gentlemen. Is there a panic? What's this about? Bomb, fire, fire. This is the material I saw 15 minutes ago, which is multiplied and which the MPs will receive as soon as the multiplication is over. So it's not adopted, it's not discussed. Therefore, this document is not on the agenda. Is someone going to use that material in the discussion, I guess, if someone has it, they'll use it. I can give it to Mr. Nikolic or Mr. Tomovic, so let them go through it just like I did, so use it yourself. You can see from that what all the abuses were, so take it out here at the pay phone. But that's not what's on the agenda. Indeed, for the first time in my life, I've been making remarks about the Rules of Procedure, but I'm really accused of being involved in some kind of an accident. There's no Ujdurma. I'm opening a debate on the final account bill. Before that, I give my word to Mr. Tomovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6830	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Minister, probably my problem is that I am acting violently and spontaneously, because my remark refers to what I hear for the first time, so I couldn't see in this material that's on the agenda. That's where my reaction came from. The gentleman from the pay phone gave me a finger and accused me of something that there was no evidence, which I really wasn't involved in. I'd like to see what it's like to be personally resented by a gentleman, accusing me of this pay phone. So, I'll use your offer to take what only you have for now, to look at it, so if there's anything in it, I'm willing to apologize, not only to Mr. Djelic, called God, but to everyone else if I've offended them in any way. But give us the opportunity to participate in this debate in an equal way. That's why I'm saying it, and I don't want to point my finger at you, there's a Serb people that he's pointing his finger at. I just want to look at you. I was also a member of the government. I've been trying to get some height and rating. I was also in the transitional government. So, that's why I don't want to talk to you, but I want to get that material so I can plead to it. So I went out to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because if someone is talking offensively about the other person, pointing at him with a finger, etc., then probably the Assembly should also plead whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Since I know how the Assembly will plead, thank you for giving me the opportunity to say what I think about it, and I know in advance how the DOS majority will plead, let me take a look at it so I can apply for a discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6831	The material's quite extensive. It's multiplying, when it's done, you'll all get it. I ask you to slow down your passions slowly. The word is Mr. Djelic, then Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6832	I just want to say two things. First, as regards the status of the document, at the moment of the adoption of the 2001 Serbian budget, I announced on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that at the moment of the final budget account for 2000, we would provide you with the first results of the budget inspection that we spoke of at that moment. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the document at today's session. I'm sorry, because at this point, we wanted it to be as up-to-date as possible, to get the most recent data, everyone, from both the position and the opposition. It has been adopted and it is now multiplying and will be delivered to you as information that goes with the budget. As for calling, I really didn't want to call anyone personally, because there's no room for something personal. It's just, at one point, I thought there was some irony in the intonation. I apologize to you, sir, if I hurt you, because I have nothing personal against you, but I thought at one point I heard some irony that was really not appropriate to this. If she wasn't here, I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6833	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you and Mr. Minister and all of you in the O.R. to warn me that there is a debate on the law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, it is on the agenda to promote the justification of DOS policy, which DOS drew in its pre-election campaign, to prove that all before DOS were criminals, thieves, ignorants, and now came a transparent, smart and fair DOS to power. Therefore, dear gentlemen, what colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia already have, don't even share, because on a simple case I'm going to show you what the mission was. What is important for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for this assembly is that the final account of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was adopted last year by the Government, discussed without even one objection on all committees of the Assembly and came here to open a debate in principle, and then in detail. It is interesting that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has otherwise organised a hard team, has increased the budget inspection by one twenty times... (President: Please listen to each other.) I beg your order in the O.R., because I'm going to interrupt the session. Really, it doesn't make sense like this. )......................................................................................................... that the government of the Republic of Serbia was having a session today and today decided to put in evidence of everything ugly that it found. There is so much evidence that our emotional minister has allowed himself to make bigger trips, and you, too, to challenge you to applaud the way and how it was done. However, there is one problem and a disproportion in the indictment. If you look at "Politics", when she celebrated 100 days of the new democratic government, free and independent Serbia, then "Politics" or that writer who wrote those four pages of the pamphlet, wrote a terrible thing, that the earlier government had embezzled 3.5 billion dinars. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia, here is the minister of justice, has taken over the role of the investigative authority, has taken over the role of prosecutors, has taken over the role of a certain judge, the riser of the indictment, the conduct of the investigation process, and has ruled. She wrote: 3.5 billion dinars embezzled. Was that supposed to be written in "Politics" without all the evidence? He shouldn't have, unless it was written by someone who's convinced he lives in a totalitarian party state, in which DOS leaders can change vice presidents without us elected MPs and replaced. Now there's a problem. Mr Djelic lowers the price, says 3.5 billion is no longer embezzled, but 400 million is illegal, and a billion and 400 is non-intentional. That's a billion and 800. So we're half as guilty as we were. Now you see how it was done in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone who is a written citizen of this country, and thank God all the citizens of this country, thanks to the education system, are written, and how they understand what is being done here today in this room. Don't think you're going to fool these citizens who are watching, to tell you instead that they're going to find it funny what you're doing, because it's clear to everyone that, coming to the Ministry, you've accomplished your great intention to produce guilt from all the forces of those before you, and some of them may be guilty, but a lot of it isn't guilty of what was done. Wherever it's meant to be, you can see it in vain, wherever it's unintended to declare it illegal. Here, I have an example when it comes to the ministry, and where I was headed. Look at this cabbage. This 99-page cabbage, thanks to the fact that I have a perfectly normal man who replaces me in his place, one of Professor Domazette's exceptional colleagues, who understood and understood. If the inspection was checking out what was done and checking out what Banet Ivkovic's associates were doing, it is essential that I meet my colleague, former minister, what they wrote. What's written is written on March 9th. The fact that it was written on March 9th and submitted on March 12th shows that there is a right for those who are mentioned to submit an objection within 8 days, and if the objections are not delivered, the report will be considered to be correct. The only man who was in that position to look at the cabbage about him, purposely written, under the pressure of 42 days of insane labor, must be found, etc., was me. As soon as I got that and made the remarks, the price went down by 80%. And my fault, with 2% of the funds spent, has fallen to 0.2% in vain and illegally. They cut from 15 million to only 3.5 million the whole story. So, wait, there's more, it's in the next one. So, what I'm saying is that none of the ministers except me were in a position to check what the Inquisitor's gypsies wrote -- the team, which was supposed to confirm the DOS's thesis that criminals, thugs, ignorants were doing the work before them, and they were transparent, and transparently, and they totally came to power, so they're clean and innocent. No man has been given a chance to check what's written in the report, to comment on what's written and to get a chance to accept it or not to accept the remark. Of course, we move on, there's no way to accept all the objections, because they have to be guilty, because the DOS is going to prove that he was right, that the thieves were before that. Now, that story that's written, one of the chiefs of the whole story calls on April 12th all the editors of the daily press and shares something I shouldn't have in my hand, and since it's been shared with them, then I got it from them, because I have good associates. It's a criminal report. On April 12th, it splits, Thursday, and orders all tomorrow's newspapers, on a big Friday, April 13th, to appear more than the criminal charges on which the indictment was filed. That's what all the journalists in the media's very controlled state got. All 13 April press releases the same texts and proves how right I am about what I'm saying. So I'm going to keep telling the story, and the message is next. The law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia is on the agenda. No committee has made any objections to that law. We here about this law should discuss and determine the fact that the Parliament's policy in the old council was to go on as little burden as possible on families and businesses, because it was an embargo, there was a bombing. It took a chance for the economy to do as little work as possible and to provide personal income to employees. It was the policy of this assembly, it was the government's policy. Unlike this policy, which had only 7.8% of the total social product of Yugoslavia in the budget, you, my dear colleagues of the DOS, voted Djelic's policy, to strike only on the basis of taxes and excises of 14.5% of the total social product of Yugoslavia. It's a completely different policy. He's knocked up a big budget, you handle it all you want, and then I'll secure the donations. It's that story about the bridge, sir, you're yelling about the weather, and about the turkey. Let me ask you, if we are already entering criminal and corruptist stories, how you will survive the fact that the now reduced charge of billions and 400 million non-intentional and 400 million illegal spending is much less than three billion dollars, where it says only the social programme or Mr. Novakovic, which writes, economic subsidies, four billion. Based on what is Mr Djelic going to talk about these three billion, on what basis will Mr Novakovic, Minister of Mining and Energy, spend four billion? How he's going to decide what he's giving IMT money for, not giving Philip Kljajic what he's giving "29th of November" from Saturday, and not giving Trieste "The First Five-year-olds". And it is that, by adopting a new system of budgets, you have adopted the right of the minister or government to spend 19 billion dinars past this assembly, past the legislative decision on criteria, for priorities. I suggest that the papers you share, you better put aside and discuss here, how 19 billion dinars from this budget will be spent, and let's conclude that the old budget showed that it was very restrictive and that it opened up the space for the economy to work, to the families to live. The science sequel will be in the next report.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6835	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, and after that there are no more registered presidents of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6836	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I could agree that the debate on this agenda has gone the wrong way. The assembly doesn't need to be a courtroom. We don't want her to be. We do not think that these documents, which are not exclusively the right of MPs from DOS, are now divided, if it takes some time for MPs of the opposition to get acquainted with the information contained in these documents, we are ready, and I suggest we suspend our work and give the rest that the opposition's MPs need to prepare. I wanted to say that the purpose of these documents cannot in any way have its meaning in delivering some dramatic new information, which we want to direct to the public, by transferring the blame to those representatives of the opposition who felt threatened by such a performance of DOS representatives and a resolute minister in the Assembly. I don't think we can say anything new about this assembly speaker, which the citizens and our society in general, or one part of it, already don't know. The only purpose of this debate over this item of the agenda is a sense that will oblige today's government to reflect on the situation in which the opposition is present and to think of two facts. That we live in a society where power is exchangeable. To live in a society where separation with power does not involve a separation with responsibility for the policy you conduct as a government. These are the only two essential facts that can come from our conversation today on this agenda point. No matter how many representatives of the opposition try to distance themselves from such a kind of fact, it won't work. They're cheating on themselves, but I don't know if they'll fool a part of us from DOS, I don't think they will. It wouldn't be a good idea for a congregation pay phone to turn into places where someone will prove their innocence, because it's not done here. We can only talk today about a principle that has not yet been valid in our society and the principle that we are trying to establish in this way as a principle that will bind us as today's power and any future power. This is the principle of integrity of the state register and responsibility for the distribution of funds from that state register. The final budget bill in March 2000 was drawn up and forwarded to lawmakers. At that time, it is clearly said that we think that it is not well-intentioned that the initiative of a former government representative who has been identified in the information that the availability of budgetary resources controls four people. Just four budgetary inspectors. At the same time, we said that we would very clearly draw the line between what is the legacy of the previous time and what is the product of our work. We do not want to face this society for a month, mostly in silence, to face the most unscrupulous accusations, which we are presented as people who are leading genocide policy towards their people, as people who sell their society on an undefined market, without taking advantage of this point of the agenda, not as a reason to accuse the representatives of the opposition, but as a reason to point out the basic facts that speak of the situation in society, which we are trying to resolve today. No less than that. Those who are afraid of something like that, fear themselves. None of us do such a thing and I suggest that before we enter into the debate, and this debate is necessary and it must be thorough, it must be documented and everyone must answer, first of all, in front of the citizens of our society for what they say in this agenda point for this payphone, to take a short break, to have MPs who did not have this material get to know each other, or to continue to work, but that the fact that we continued to work does not become an argument for those who would go out for this pay phone and say that they did not know or had the opportunity to get acquainted with something like that. I am prepared to respect the views expressed during my performance, to suggest that we continue to discuss this point of the agenda, but to bind ourselves to arguments and facts. This is not an opposition trial, this is the establishment of a principle that is binding, first of all for us, but we have no right to circumvent certain facts. We don't have the right to bypass the facts that speak of non-intentional spending of funds. The purposeless spending determined by the authorised inspection, the purposeless spending that has its name and last name, its income and its expenditure, and, finally, as a consequence of the damage, has that non-partisan property, but is general. When we talk about three and a half billion dinars wasted, we're talking about unintendedly spent funds provided for solidarity logs. We're talking about unintendedly spent funds provided by taxis, which are designed to cover the costs of those parts of our society that have been affected by earthquakes and elemental disasters. When we talk about non-intentional spending, we are talking about fully counter-directing of funds based on the basis that are not defined by the relevant acts governing the competences of the resolution ministries. Finally, when we talk about non-intentional spending of funds, we are, for example, talking about these paradoxical facts which the representatives of today's opposition themselves are ashamed of. We are talking about the fact that the Ministry of Finance, on the one hand, was giving money at 0.1% interest, and on the other hand, owed the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the budget for business banks at interest of 5% or 6%. When we talk about non-purpose spending of funds, we are talking about spending on the Ministry of Labour and Combat Affairs, which was completely unintendedly targeting these funds directly at the expense of the SPS. You yourself, socialists, should part with it, so that you have the moral right to come before us next time and ask us to file an account. It's not an indictment of the SPS voters, it's an accusation of the top of your party that doesn't sit here today in the Assembly, or it's lonely when it sits. So, I invite you, if you are not ready to take a break, to enter into a debate argued, with the facts, that this is not seen as a trial and certainly, not to be seen as our endeavor to abuse a position that is not our intimate or our narrow extravagant privilege. This is a report available to the public, a report held by the MPs. This is not the final word that we have said on this issue because this is a report that was made up through the review of the ministry's policy, I think it's about 14 ministries, not all of them, and I don't think it's correct in that sense, a certain burden of responsibility will be passed on to individuals, while others will be fortunate, that such a kind of debate will be spared this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6837	I can, on your insistence, put on a vote to set a break to get to know her, but I'm not going to give her for the next reason, whether they have needs, that's what we're going to do together. If we can, without throwing, please. I'm not even gonna set a break because this isn't the material that's part of the agenda we're discussing today. No matter what my old friend, Maja Vasic, the secretary general, writes here that this material can be used when considering the proposal. It is a material that represents information and I hope that the Government will continue to provide us with such information after periodic control, as this assembly, as we agreed, will inform Members of the expenditure on budgetary resources available to it. This shouldn't be, in my deep conviction, this simply can't be an integral part of the act that's being adopted. It can be used in information, I don't see that it can be used for the adoption of some dry mathematical data, which actually are a report on the final account and we can't change the amendments here. That's how it is. The way it's been spent, it's really not a matter of Parliament, but of the judicial authorities and here we have one piece of information that has been filed against the responsible persons and that we only hope that the judicial authorities, or the investigating and judicial authorities, will finish their work and that we will read in the paper that the persons responsible, who have been proven to have committed abuse, will be found behind bars. If we're having an advance debate about it, I don't think it can, I would simply recommend that it doesn't appear within this item of the agenda, because the debate will be unnecessary, infertile, long, and in the atmosphere that we have managed to avoid for the past week. Minister Djelic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6838	Based on what Mr. Ivkovic said, just to confirm something he said. First, even in this budget for 2001, which is established under that law that prevails at this point, there is much that is not sufficiently defined. So, it is also legal when it's done in our budget, it's not done enough, but those sums and figures that have to be further explained and get into more details about how it's going to be spent, that's what it's about. The financial plans are being adopted properly, and as far as the future of our budget is concerned, and as I have already said, we will propose to you in a few weeks a draft bill on the budgetary procedure, where we will have two things. First, the budget will be proposed in much more detailed items, so control will be easier, there won't be as many large items as today and as it was last year. Secondly, the finding of the controller will be an integral part of the final account and this document, as Mr. President has indicated, is given for your information and complete information, that you have a better view of what happened in the state register last year. Thank you. (Branislav Ivkovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6839	He didn't mention you, I didn't really hear you mention Mr. Ivkovic? Yes, it is! Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic, replica. First according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kovacevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please report a little more lively.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6840	Mr. President, you had a dialogue with the coming head of the parliamentary group, so you didn't notice me intervened in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6841	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6842	I must remind you, Mr. President, that we now have a report on the final budget for the year 2000. In the course of the debate, Article 98 was injured. The Rules of Procedure, which is the obligation of the MP to speak on the agenda for this speaker. You are depriving us in part of the right to talk about the agenda point by making it impossible for us to get acquainted with this material and to use these elements in the discussion of the final budget account for 2000, because when we discussed the 2001 budget, Minister Djelic announced: when the end account point for 2000 comes on the agenda, you will also get the information of the budget inspection, which will show you how the budget meetings were used and spent in 2000. I suggest, Mr. President, that you set a 15-minute break for MPs to get acquainted with this material and that this material, the data in it, participate equally in the debate on the final budget bill for 2000, and I ask you to make it clear to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6843	I will, of course, put your proposal on a statement as far as the breaks are concerned, but there is simply no possibility of this being an integral part of the act we adopt. This is what the congregation cannot say, whether you like it or not, the procedure for including a document in the consideration is known. This is information material. I am putting to vote Mr Kovacevic's proposal to set a 15-minute break in order to get to know the information you received from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Before voting on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6844	Before you put the motion to vote, Mr Kovacevic, please consider Article 84. Rules of Procedure establishing the agenda and amending the agenda of this session. Thus, it is illusory to vote on giving a break for something that cannot be an integral part of the agenda of this congregation. In particular, it cannot be for the reason that in 15 minutes someone should get to know a report, which was made two months by a budget inspection, that all MPs chew it up in 15 minutes, to get the impression of it, especially that the claim was made here that all those responsible in this budgetary control procedure did not receive timely records could not make objections to the report and that report could be questioned. So, I think you're absolutely right when you don't want this part of the material to be included in the agenda of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6845	I can't get into the quality of the proposal, I just have to put the proposal to a vote on the Rules of Procedure, to give it a 15-minute break. (Stanko Kovacevic: I give up the proposal for a plea. Then let's get back to work. Thank you. The word is Mr. Ivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6846	I thank the MP from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia who gave up the proposal, because among other things he did one human act, because those who are called in this material, divided today, I don't know whose decision it is, essentially, they don't know what it is, because they had no right to know each other, nor to act within the required time and to give answers. On my case, I see how important this is, because thanks to the fact that I had the Minister of Science, Technology and Development, Professor Domazette, who is a correct man, I have reduced all charges by 90% within eight days. I came out on the line to welcome Mr. Djelic's statement to this pay phone. I am pleased that he confirmed by his statement the fact and pointed out that he himself was also aware of the fact that he had received in the hands of three billion dinars to spend, and that they were not in fact defined criteria and priorities based on which to spend. Just to say the Ministry of Science and Technology last year, since the debate on last year's budget had the right to have 770 million dinars. The financial plan I worked on on the ministry's spending is exactly 31 pages, where it is decadently stated what funds could be spent on. It also says that they can be used to print publications, and they can be spent to encourage the development of young people. Of course, the inspectors haven't seen it, but the fact is that on the 31st page there's a detailed consumption of 770 million. You can imagine how much it takes for three billion dinars, and that is why it is very important, I propose it to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and to spend these funds to propose to the legislature, and to spend four billion funds on economic incentives, for itself to propose to this assembly to adopt the law for both 7 billion and 100 million dinars for investment in travel and rail transport, to propose an appropriate legislative project to this assembly, that the Assembly vote do so, as voted in the budget, so we, on the basis of the budget, had to do a financial plan. The finance plan works as a minister, gives consent to the government, and the minister, in line with the financial plan, has the right to spend funds if there are items. The trouble with this report is that inspectors don't see those items.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6847	If no one of the presidents of the parliamentary groups is answering for a word anymore, I call on the MPs to apply for a discussion, we have no registered MP. The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would very briefly like to talk about the draft budget bill for 2000 and only that, unlike the minister who talked about it for only two minutes, and his sole task was to suggest some material that would talk about the former government. I must warn Mr. Minister that even those who thought they would be in power most of the time did not remain in power, so this new government should always bear in mind that one day they will be defeated and that they should not challenge future winners to treat it as they treat individuals or anyone who was in power before the DOS. Every day, by deciding, Mr. Minister, you or the other members of the government do some work that will make the next government, unless it respects the principles that apply throughout the world, will surely be able to charge you. It hit me a lot when you were here, I didn't even know who you were pointing at, you accused someone, and in fact we all didn't treat our children from leukemia, and we spent it on other purposes. That's what you can be told right now, Minister. At this time, I can ask you about the blinding of Djindjic's cabinet, how many children of leukemia haven't been treated for it? It's not a pay phone in the National Assembly. It's not done in public. He who has a soul and who has children does not speak of it in the session of the National Assembly, does not irritate the citizens. How many people have you kicked out with your statement? Why didn't you focus on your final budget report for 2000? Why did you deliver this to us on March 15th, without any objections, nor to those who have had their budget, nor to the users of the budget, in order to please us today with a report that the president of the DOS parliamentary group knows by heart, in our fingers. When did he teach him? It's democracy. I'm terrified of such democracy. I wish I never lived in such a democracy again. You see, Mr. Minister, you said that, as far as the receiving parties are concerned, last year was the worst year perhaps in Serbia's history. It was heavy. She did bring some income, but knowing how difficult it would be, we had them on such a low level, on such a low basis and planned it. It was the first postwar year. The first year in which we expected much less industry to work than it did. The first year we expected to have no electricity at all. It was the first postwar year in which more businesses worked than they do today and manufactures. Now, really, the budget was planned, I don't know where you found 51 billion, I found 46 billion, going through all the items that went into the budget, with those 31,550 and 14,500. It's about 502, as much as it's been brought since the special account revenue. Indeed, the budget was 46 billion dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolute ministers, according to this report, which you made, and not the previous government, and this is one of those exceptions, that the government does not tolerate the final account, that the government is not justified to the MPs, that the government is not seeking understanding of what it did last year, because it is not, but rather, the new government, according to this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2000, means that the government that represented the SPS coalition, the JUL, the SRS, and the other, the transitional one, which represented the SPS coalition, the SPS, the DOS, did what they could. This huge material that's been available to us for two months, that we've met, it's not about malfeasance, it's not about crime, it's about the extra extra material that you gave to the MPs today, and you wanted to turn this whole session into a witch hunt. And that's none of your business, Mr. Minister. It's a job of judicial, investigative, judicial authorities, it's a police job, and it's supposed to be done. Let the courts give the final word and hope that these courts will decide when Vladan Batic is no longer a minister of justice, because there is much evidence that the courts are no longer acting by law but by order alone. But, in order not to really be forced to say that I have a completely negative opinion about you, Mr. Minister, focus on what we're supposed to do today, and that's the final budget bill for 2000. Get the material ready for us. Let the congregation committees examine it. Let us make observations about this and let this material be called accidental budget spending, illegal budget spending, the responsibility of certain people. Let's make it case-supported. None of it escapes from the Serbian Radical Party at all. But we won't be here as hostages of the Democratic Party, which will deliver to us at the sitting itself materials to discuss. I have noticed with many MPs of the opposition, here, now, how zealously they read it, that they had no idea about this material at all. To those who had no idea about this material, I apologize, but I call on these others to think little of their future, to ask if they promised this to the citizens of Serbia. I read about Tito's age. Lived in the age of Slobodan Milosevic. Something like this... (growling) I can't hear you well, come out for a pay phone, you heroes... But this isn't the kind of thing that communists haven't done at the worst time. This is... It's possible that's why they failed, but I can't accuse them, if they were bigger Democrats than you, why they failed. [[growls]] This isn't called democracy. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and anyone who answers the word will speak, I say we will vote in favour of the draft budget bill for 2000, and that we are an open session, at any time of day or night, where you will introduce us to what happened before you, but I promise you, Mr. Minister, we will have a quick session to discuss what happened during you. So then, let's say, I'm going to ask you how you agreed to introduce a monopoly on oil in Serbia. Let me ask you how much money you turned down from the state register and put in Croatia because oil is transported exclusively through the pipeline owned by Croatia. Irregularity. I don’t know about that, because I don’t do it, and you oilers have a clue about it. Maybe you'll get permission from Djindjic to import oil. But I'm just reading in the paper what's going on and I see what part of Serbia's income is gone and I see the parked tanks, parked barges, and I see that there's no oil, and I get it. And then we'll ask you, Mr. Minister -- is the report by Vuk Obradovic on crime and malfeasance...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6849	Mr. Nikolic, you insisted on taking care of the subject, the final bill, and now you're talking past the subject. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6850	I accept this remark of yours, I think I've already said what I should have said. I repeat - we will vote in favour of the draft budget bill for 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6851	The word has the finance minister, Mr Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6852	Just answer your question. If you look at page 96 of Table 1 you see that you have those special accounts we talked about here. So it's called - The report on the incomes and expenditures made on special accounts from October 1st to December 31st 2000 and you see that the sum, column 4, revenues by special regulations, is 19.3 billion dinars. That's what 31 billion dinars are for, and that's how you get to cca 51 billion dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6853	Right on the line, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6854	I, Mr. Minister, have read page 6 of chapter 2. He's coming. It says that the original revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget were 31 billion 550m and 400,000 dinars, that funds were used from the finance ministry's special accounts of 4,844,000 dinars. And in point 4, for reconciliation, i.e. that budget revenues are involved in the reconciliation of the budget commitments of 14 billion and 502 million dinars from the special accounts that existed. Still, I haven't found any additional revenue, and I'm going to add this to page 96.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6855	The word has a minister, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6856	I think it's an illustration of what wasn't good in the 2000 budget, because in order to give you respected MPs the whole picture, we had to gather information from a variety of sources. Thanks to the way you voted this year's budget, it won't be necessary, it won't be necessary either on the income or on the dispensary side, and to talk about this issue -- if we look at the split, that's exactly the problem, what was formally called, and it can't be retroactively changed, what was called the budget of the Republic of Serbia, there we had these 31.5 billion revenues. That's what was achieved, and where 28.9 billion were planned. And on the other hand, that contribution I was talking about, we actually have a total of 19.3 billion. However, in those special accounts you had two categories -- one part of it, about 4 billion, went through the finance ministry's special accounts and went through it, but they weren't discussed in parliament, while the other part, about 15 billion, was neither going through the budget nor going through one debate in the Assembly. And so we have even three categories of public income: we have what's called the budget, we have what goes through the budget, and it didn't go through the normal assembly procedure, and we have what's actually income, because that's what the state has determined, and that's the character of public income, and it's not going through the budget, and of course it hasn't gone through any normal budget procedure. When we get to the final account, and of course, this year isn't a year where it won't be controlled. On the contrary, and how to control what is spent, and of course, this government, and myself, will be responsible for it. Thank you. (Tomislav Nikolic asks for a word: He is wrong about five billion dinars. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6857	You're not misread. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Borisvoje Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6858	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support Mr Djelic's suggestive and sincere exposure, whom I truly understand as one of our true patriots, who has great dilemmas, morals, when he goes through all these materials, which he has to go through, along with his associates. He here, commenting on this final bill, actually made one meek anatomy of a morale who did all this. With regard to non-intentional spending, I will only point out one example, I hope that I will not get out of the topic - in 1998 (I think it was before the war) on the big bells at the Faculty of Mining and Geology, Mr. Ivkovic has concluded a contract on four million dinars for strategic research and recording the potential of underground waters in Serbia, and this is for our opportunities, where hydrologists, geologists and universities work, it is one big project. After that, I responded to the list of "Today" and I wrote an answer entitled "New Pack of Old Content". Such research was carried out 20 years earlier, so that the job of those who were supposed to do it, co-workers of the Mining and Geological Faculty, Jaroslav Černi and 50 other experts of Serbia, was only to come to the fund, the largest fund, not to say in Yugoslavia, the Geological Institute, the Geo-Geosa, and to turn over our elaborates, seven major regional studies, to sign it and charge money. Mr. Ivkovic never answered me, maybe it wasn't his idea, but it was his assistant's idea, or the deputy, who was from the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6859	He's got the word, Mr. Ivkovic. [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6860	I thank my esteemed colleague, but I would ask him to listen to me very carefully, as I have listened to him very carefully. Believe me, I didn't read "Today" at the time, so I didn't see your suggestion. Now I'm reading, but I don't see the difference, all the same newspapers, all the same writing, same criminal records reporting. I would like to say the following -- it has been extremely difficult for me personally, a respected colleague, to lead in general that part of the Republic of Serbia's spatial plan, related to our country's water potential. Believe me, such conflicts are between those who deal with surface accumulations and those who deal with underground waters. I don't know which group you belong to, but both claim that the other group is not necessary and that Serbia has everything. And indeed, thanks to my esteemed colleague, Professor Milan Bacevic, who initiated this idea, I gave my best support to her, we organized an extraordinary team (an ambassador from the O.R.: theme) - on the subject, tell the one who spoke before me. So, an extraordinary team of people from the Mining - Geological Faculty and the Institute "Jaroslav Černi" has been tasked with definitely solving the problem - whether our country has enough groundwater, especially the area of the Sword, and the great problem is the groundwaters of Vojvodina. And believe me, it's all gone through the Committee on Technical and Technological Sciences, the parent board, which was working within the Ministry, where it was then, and I believe now, 25 experts from technical and technological sciences. They approved it, they verified the research, and the project was rated extremely successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6861	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6862	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not the first time that the MPs of this assembly have been put in a position to be ashamed of the words spoken for this speaker, for the conduct of this assembly, although they do not contribute and try not to contribute. According to what we heard from the SPS and SRS representatives, it turns out that not only did the previous government fail to embezzle and not for non-purpose purposes, but it will turn out that the state is obliged to former members of the ministries, former members of the Government, the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic Assembly, although they are over 20 billion dinars of the budget, by way of positions, used, and we have heard how much was used for various non-purpose purposes. I am also ashamed to listen to the bids of the president of the SPS parliamentary group, shame on me both as the MP of the DOS, and as a lawyer, and as an MP in this National Assembly, to bid on whether without purpose, without legitimate purpose, several hundred million dinars or several billion dinars were abused, as if there was a difference and as if it were an esculating moment, if 100 million dinars were spent without foundation, not a billion dinars. And it's like there's some kind of limit that public officials can spend without responding to it. It is me, both as a DOS MP, and as a lawyer, who is ashamed to listen to the offer of former regime MPs to ministers in our government, to close their eyes, not to deal with these issues too much now, from which it implies that when they come to the situation of the opposition, they will be able to pass, although they have committed some abuse, even though they have unintendedly placed some means, therefore, to close their eyes, because they will not be, for the rest of their lives, there will be an opposition. Such rhetoric shows what a civilizational difference is between the DOS parliamentary group and the SPS and the SRS parliamentary group. It is therefore evident that six billion dollars was not the moment for which Serbian citizens have defined who they will vote for in the elections. You gentlemen were the moment the citizens of Serbia voted DOS, not six billion dollars. We see through the report that virtually in all ministries, abuse has been committed, that unintended funds have been used, we see that the Ministry of Information, based on the demands of Palm TV, which was faxed to financial aid, has sent 1.500,000 dinars, and there is no document from which to look at the basis for such spending. [[Applause]] (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. This is an absolute theme, this is part of the final account for last year. In particular, considering that it's not national television, it's television that belongs to someone, and that someone isn't a budget user. The MAP paid the members of the Sports Society's sports club "Milicionar" to the name of the daily and travel expenses56. 548 US dollars, claiming that we were foreign mercenaries, 123,223 German marks and 8,338 Swiss francs, although financial expenditures for these purposes were not foreseen, nor were they in office of the ministry. Easier said, the MUP was paying some natural person some kind of foreign currency without having a legal basis, where someone had the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as if it were a straw escape zone. Let me remind you that according to Article 34. The law on public enterprises, public enterprises no longer have the right to finance advertising, or to give donations, or to grant sponsorships, let alone to do so by the ministry. In addition, the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and its behaviour towards solidarity means that the relationship with Kosovo and Metohija has been pure demagogy and shows that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija in the rhetoric of the former Milosevic regime has served only to obtain as many MPs as possible by electoral machinations and that the problem has deliberately kept an ad act and sheltered under the rug. By means of solidarity, contrary to the Law on Solidarity for employees who have temporarily lost their jobs, a total of 215,601,765 dinars have been unintendedly spent, and this, according to the ministry's mandate, has been approved that the funds of solidarity amounting to seven million dinars are paid to the Fund to provide humanitarian assistance to Kosovo and Metohija citizens. At the same time, the order states that payment shall be made to the jury account of the SPS, the same amount and the payment. In addition, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development sounds absurdly that the ministry in charge of development has been funded by political parties. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia used the budget of the Republic of Serbia to pay the SPS and the SRS. From these funds for the financing of labour and payment of services for the SPS account, amounting to 680.193 dinars, and SRS, amounting to 183.880 dinars, as well as the Anti-Dumption, Alcoholism and Religious Sects Foundations - FONAS - Belgrade, the founder of the Municipal Committee of the SPS Vračar, direct payments of 570,000 dinars and by means of a jury of accounts of other legal entities, whose work is financed by the ministry, another 1,675,000 dinars, etc. It is absurd that the ministry, which should finance development, has funded those political organisations that have reversed this country more than anyone in the last 100 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6863	The word has Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6864	I think the president of the National Assembly saw on TV what the session is turning into and he's right to come back. This is where a young gentleman came out for the pay phone who had already prepared the text in advance and taught him well. I see that the rest of you are finally answering the question I think you're fully prepared for, and that no one else is ready, except you from the Democratic Party and this little girl sitting here in the benches. But it doesn't give you the right to insult neither the SRS, nor the SPS, or any individual in this room. If you, young sir, were a little more serious and had taken this parliamentary job a little more seriously, if you had taken the state you live in more seriously, you wouldn't have lived up to the pay phone like this, even with the materials in your hand. In court, sir. This isn't a courtroom, this isn't a police station, no one's being tried here, no one's ever going to be tried. This is where the congregation materials are discussed. Those charges, it's called criminal charges. Take it today, you're a lawyer, you're a lawyer, you're a lawyer, you're what, you know your rights. Any Serbian citizen can file criminal charges. Why don't you file a criminal report? Why are you harassing me here now about how someone's been spending money somewhere? Every day there are murders, which you don't go out for a pay phone and you say -- there's been a murder in so many hours, the unknown perpetrators have done it and so on. That's not what I want to listen to, and the SRS parliamentary group won't listen to it, nor will you be able to bring it up until there's a part of the agenda. When the agenda's over, go ahead for the pay phone, then we'll be ready. The fact that a couple of fiddlers and jokers thinks you've learned everything because you have five or six papers in your hand and you think you've done all the work in your life, that you hate some of us, that's not enough for you to have one good life. You have to prepare for life. You get into a good life by learning something, being ready for something, doing something in your life. You read the files and draw instructions from them for your long life. If they were in my hand, I'd throw those files away so I wouldn't read, I'd be afraid of what I can find out about someone, and of you as foreign mercenaries and of your groups as traitors. I won't even read that again. It all turned out. The economic motive that decided to give you power slowly falls into the water. I thought you'd stop being an opposition. You're still the opposition. We ask you nicely how the new budget, how the new social benefits will go, and you talk about what happened last year. Instead of the police, MPs of the National Assembly are involved. Now I ask you, what were you doing during the war when NATO attacked us? Where was your boss during the war when NATO attacked us? I don't want to ask you, you know where he was, you know who you served, what to ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6865	The word is Mr. Pajtic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know who first dropped the bomb here, but whoever drops the bombs should be ready to buy the bodies. So, if you'd like to have a discussion like this, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6866	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was injured by Article 99, which says that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect, or that no offensive expressions are allowed, nor are they given facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. I think it's untasteful for me, who is a master of legal science, to be lectured on competence by someone who has a high school, and it's untasteful that communication teaches me how to communicate in a city cemetery.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6867	This isn't exactly an example of respect, but let's move on. Mr. Ivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6868	Mr. Chairman, at any moment I realize how difficult it is for you to lead this congregation. The esteemed predecessor for this speaker allowed himself to say a series of ugly words about the SPS and its members, and now he calls on the Rules of Procedure and asks that no one insults him. Of course, I won't insult him because I never do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6869	Mr. Nikolic and Pajtic can continue the debate in the hallway. Please, let's hear from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6870	I'd just like to say to an esteemed young colleague who has spoken an ugly word about all of us, that he knows that this budget, whose final bill we're adopting, was an extremely small budget of value. It was purposely so low-designed that it would allow businesses and families to work. At the same time, he was tasked with raising economic production in 2000 by 15%. Dear young sir, we raised not 15%, but by September 15, 2000, 24% was growth in economic production. This budget, which should be pointed out, when it comes to the final account of that budget, has played its part so well that in this year, when it is independent, free, democratic, well-cooperationed, well-accepted state, you failed with your government to achieve economic production in March of this year, as it was last year after Serbia's aggression, 5% lower production. We can also look at the prices and the drop in standards and the fall in wages. As far as the favorite story of the Ministry of Science and Technology is concerned, here is one of the 12 books of Professor Dr. Laza M. Kostic, some know very well in this room, the works collected have been published, and for those who did not know, it is an extraordinary scientist. Mr. Laza M. Kostic wrote a textbook of theoretical statistics in Yugoslavia between the first two world wars. So, the only textbook of theoretical statistics. It didn't bother him to write constitutional law, he didn't mind being a law school enforcer, and as an exceptional mathematician and statistician to write a number of other books. It also says thank you to the Ministry of Science and Technology, my dear young colleague, that is, the problem, which is that those who were sent by the Inquisitors and the Gypsies were tasked with declaring this a financing of the SRS, and the same as they were tasked with declaring the Foundation against Narcotics, Alcoholism and Sects by funding the SPS. However, there is one big problem, a man who signed the record at the Ministry of Science and Technology, a man who apparently had to sign a criminal report, which someone gave to the editors on April 12th, and those on April 13th on the Big Friday, and in all the papers with a good picture, the man looked at unfortunately, and they didn't know it from the finance, FONAS's business. All the revenue is given, all the expenses are given and nowhere is there, my dear friends, the SPS. If you want to talk about FONAS, in the budget, my dear Government of the Republic of Serbia, the position of the Ministry of Science and Technology, the resolution minister on the 31st page tabled a proposal to spend the funds. The government of the Republic of Serbia gave, the Minister of Science and Technology had the right to interpret the programme of incentives and education of scientific rejuvenation, the programme of promotion and popularisation of science as a source of funding for the foundation, which had the objectives of combating narcissism, the fight against alcoholism and the fight to describe young people to avoid recruiting into sects while at the same time affirming all extracurricular activities, so that young people could develop properly and recruit as much scientific underage as possible from the population of young people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6871	The word is made by Mr Jovanovic, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, and then by MP Borisvoje Katic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6872	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try, however difficult and ultimately unpopular, to direct this debate in the only, in my opinion, smart direction. Namely, to focus on legal frameworks. We need today to declare support for one law. If we spent so much time, for a month and a half, in discussions on laws that were most often just a space of harmonisation with this reform of fiscal policy, I don't see why we don't now have the willingness to very carefully, and in accordance with the law and obligations to respect the law, we talk about the way the funds in society were spent. No charges. This isn't the place to charge. I will remind you that we too are bound by the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses and we are obliged to, by applying that law, give the final bill to the budget in 2000 or not. It's a very large law. Someone's going to say 32 billion, and someone's going to say 55, but it's about billions, it's about a number of ministries, it's about big funds. He who votes and speaks without wanting to hear the fact that he's getting to know the facts makes a big mistake. So, if we can make accusations, self-indiction or recognition of some criticisms leave for another opportunity, and here just to apply the law, that anyone who says that the final account in this form should go through, can tomorrow respond to a new assembly session or a new meeting with citizens: yes, I voted, but I didn't ask what the funds from a special account were, I didn't know, I didn't get the information. I also think that this report, which we received today, is something we need to vote on. This is auxiliary material. This is, if we want to be so pessimistic, the genealogy. In the congregations, the genealogies, the papers, showed whether a Croat, a Muslim, was a Serb, drew borders. This is an official document by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, announced by the government when we opened a regular session of this parliament in March. We can therefore approach with an elementary appreciation of these facts. Nothing more and nothing less. To realize we're passing a very serious law. As we behave today under this law, we will behave, I guarantee you, and in the future. If 10 years ago we made a mistake as a society, if they didn't make the right political moves, we can't do that today. The new 10 years, like they were before, will not survive society. So, very carefully, very carefully, in the poor state, let's talk about the way the funds were spent and, as the Assembly, let's say, whether these funds were spent in accordance with the proposed law or not. If they're not, the law doesn't deserve our support. Let the government tell us where the funds are. We can't stand behind something that's incomplete in itself, even though we've been standing for the past few years. I've got the 1999 law here, the 1999 Final Account Act. It took a very short discussion. Don't let me quote reports from that session, let me tell you how long the MP in the assembly was thinking about the way the funds were spent. This is not a question of government and opposition, this is a question of political relations towards society, MPs to the executive government. Everyone has to account for what he's done, because finally we respect that people's saying - pure bill of long love.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6873	The word has the People's MP Borisvoje Katic, followed by the MP Leila Ruzdic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6874	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to ask that this debate, and I am speaking to the opposition gentlemen, be channeled to civilizational relations, not desecrating any moment of this home that we are in. I know the truth is painful and that a lot of things are hitting you, but okay, I'm willing to accept it, and your pains, but still, accept it with dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite enough to look at this final budget and more than clear that a number of illegalities and abuses were available to these funds: unintended and unlawful use of large amounts of budgetary resources; the absence of financial discipline; the large amount of income and expenditure, and they were realised with a series of jury accounts of budgetary users; the lack of complete records of the state of property, and in particular on immovableity, uncontrolled relations with banks and many businesses as end-users of budgetary resources. Speaking of budget beneficiaries, I'm going to look very briefly at the Ministry of Justice and local self-government, and one place where things like this shouldn't be and never will be. This is the last thing that ever happened in Serbia. Please, there have been speeches about stimulating the economy of one of the predecessors, and when we're talking about incentives for the economy, and about this ministry, I'm asking whether the incentive of the economy was the case in the company "Colling" as the contractor of the Justice Palace facility for the works done, and it put the situation at an end to the amount of 2,808.275.28 dinars. On this basis, the Department of Justice charged a sum of 4,808,275 dinars. Is it an incentive of the economy? Is the incentive of the economy addressed to the company Simpro, for which it stands in the ministry's accounts, but it does not keep records of the cases seized in the court proceedings, as well as revenue from the sale of these cases, and for the period from 1995 to 2000 amounts to a total of 31.12.942 dinars. The cash from the sale of confiscated items during the same period has not been paid to the Republic's budget or to the ministry's jury account, as provided for by the contract. Where the funds went, and probably because of the incentives of the economy in Simpro. Then, whether the incentive was also directed at the ministry, where it is seen from the budget that the Ministry of Information showed the costs of the 1,614,864 dinar team, of which 1.253,200 were paid to the trading company C Market from Belgrade. Was that really the incentive we were talking about? Ladies and gentlemen, after this budget law for 2000, there is really nothing more to be done than file a number of criminal charges for abuse of position and application for economic crimes. It's something we don't want to talk about right now, and the authorities are gonna do it right. I'm just asking you to use this pay phone really in the style this set is and what this institution is, how this tall body deserves. Indeed, everything that's been going on here in the 2000 budget is actually talking about, essentially, everything about your real face, and there's no reason to so tragically understand something that's already been done, something that you stand for as responsible. I think it's a big deal for you to come out and accept this truth, which is painful, every truth is extremely painful, but please, it's part of our life, part of the responsibility you bear for everything you've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6875	He didn't mention you, where he mentioned it, and the Ministry, about the function?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6876	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have welcomed the day when the representatives of the government will show that they have begun reading some of the material, however, these are not congregation materials. I could read a piece of this material earlier in the paper, because DOS doesn't like it through the law, doesn't like it over the law, doesn't like it through justice, likes it through its newspapers and through its televisions to tell the people what happened and how it happened, and doesn't allow others to even give the right to answer. And they lied all kinds of things, they made things up, they wrote all kinds of stupid things. They wrote in one newspaper, he says - Vukic transferred 12 million to Studio "B", although they were never responsible for Studio "B" and I don't know what, and before that, they forgot that we had been attacked so much that we took Studio "B", because of unintended use, by the city government, that we had to pay salaries etc. Of all these lies, numerous, there are only a few left, but they don't seem to know any more... Do you want to talk, come out for a pay phone, but I didn't notice that you have any courage to go out for the pay phone. You usually like it from a place like that, like your aunts say, that you make sure no one answers you, that they won't see you or recognize you. My little problem is I don't see too well at all, so I can't always figure out which one to throw. So, just to answer what the Ministry of Information said about this accusation that my predecessor was talking about, and he doesn't know either himself or why, or how he accused someone here. I have to say, most of it applies to the transitional government. But that's okay, people helped, because from this you could understand that they were helping workers, because people with high professional training had a salary of 1,200 to 1,600 dinars, so they were giving them, I think that Mrs Matic-Spasojevic gave them twice 5,000 dinars, and I'm several times 1,000 dinars, and once or twice 2,000 dinars. So much that you have in mind. It was given to all workers, as far as the lists are concerned, there are signatures to which it was given. Since, to introduce you to that, we were moved to the Faculty of Machines, I've always separated and gave to that secretary and others, to buy juices and drinks, because we didn't have co-operation with him, because we were very far from the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's when you read about things like that. As for this other thing and what someone here said whether it was transferred to television or not, I don't know what it's going to be, it's not going to be moved to make a barrel or not, I don't know what it's about, it's going to be television. It's been transferred to dozens of television, radio, and newspapers, dozens, and some even I regret. I'm particularly sorry that we transferred a huge amount of money...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6877	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6878	I'll finish. ... We've transferred the eutel clock or the YouTube clock, as you wish, personally guilty of it, four days and four nights we haven't even gone home. We asked for money to see where we could pay them, and when we paid them all the way to the last dinar, that is, when we transferred it to stamps and dollars, they shut us off from the "Eutel Hour" and said that Yugoslavia no longer has the right, or RTS no longer has the right to participate, or to broadcast via "Eutel Hour". But, I'm not sorry, I've helped those TVs that helped the state television and the private television, and you even have private newspapers, many others, those who gave their repeaters, those who built them, and you don't think I'm going to help "Dairy Great," that I'm going to help those who funded you and who helped you to come to power. That's the fundamental difference, that's the huge difference between us. That's something we're different by...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6879	I'm asking you to finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6880	I'll finish. Since there's a former government officer here who worked with us, they know who he is when and how he can get and how. Don't you, who don't know anything about it, who in particular don't know what it's said to be unintended, I'm not saying it's illegal, it's not purposeless. Who's going to say it's not purposeless, who's going to run the policy, executive policy, the policy of the executive authority and say it's, in such a way, unintended? Who put it that way? Where does that say? On what grounds? So much for that, and later, of course, I'll go over the final budget bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6881	The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic, and then the National MP Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6882	We heard earlier that this was extraordinary, that for 2000 it was an extremely small budget. He was most likely small for all those needs, non-intentional and non-legislative, which he spent so little on. In the past, like in the past years, I've been dealing with refugee issues, and all this time I've had one huge problem -- the lack of any means to help them. When I read the government report, where I found that the money that was set for the building of refugee apartments went to another side, I really don't know now later whether I'm getting angry, angry or not knowing how to call it. In the report, I found that 276 apartments were to be built out of pairs that were budgeted for building refugee apartments. I also realized that the money that was to be used to buy the press, that is to say, was invoiced, that this money went to another side, and it was not small: 9,464,478 dinars. I think these are exactly the things that are the subject of today's debate. We have a final account, we have a budget that provides for its own items to meet certain needs, and these needs have not been settled, and the money has been spent, that is, unintentional and unlawfully spent. The stocks of goods, whose status was established in the control procedure, amounting to 18,776,586 dinars, were not recorded in the accounts and this went to some of the costs incurred by the authorities at the time. Of course, the results of where the money was due to be given to refugees so far are one criminal report and one application for a business offense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6883	The People's MP Gorica Mojovic has the word, followed by MP Milisav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6884	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, often resents us here from the opposition MPs that we may not understand, that we may not be able, and that may be possible, but there are here a number of MPs of the opposition who have become a member of Parliament. Some are there for five, eight years, and it is perfectly understandable that they have much more skills and that they have much more knowledge, but it is not the order then that we, who have been doing this duty for only a few months, resent a certain discrepancy. What I want to say about the final account debate for 2000 is, in a way, adding to what I did yesterday, advertising the breach of the Businessmen, said that, in the light of the changes and addition of the two laws in the field of social policy, we had the opportunity to listen several times for 10 minutes at a time to the 2001 budget, adopted a month and a half ago. And if we could listen to something that wasn't a topic and what was past, why don't we now that the topic is the final bill for last year we can also talk about what, let me put it this way, in a sense commentary of that final account. As far as I'm concerned, I have no dilemma at all about what this government report we've received. The final account is those numbers, they're the digits, they're the divided ones, they're the additions and the subtractings. What we got as a government report is what's behind those numbers, which is behind those figures, which is the very essence and what's right. I must say that, of course, I might not even be talking about this final bill, that in all the laws that have already been passed through this Serbian assembly, several facts have not been mentioned on numerous occasions. First, the 2001 budget is much higher than last year's budget. Yes, of course, not all obligations to the citizens of Serbia have been met, especially in the areas of social giving, because we had sanctions, we had bombings. We all know that, and that's where we can agree. If we look at the government's report now, in a sense of comment, and so to speak, the additional data of what is the final account, then we can conclude that this bombing and these sanctions were not valid for all. Although we have had them, although they have actually done great damage to our country and its citizens, then we can see thanks to this data that some of these consequences have been excluded. You now have all the opportunities and I believe that the citizens of Serbia will also read everything in this report, and as I hear there will be a subsequent report, this is only a preliminary one. I'm sorry, because there's still no ministry report here that interests me most, and that's the Ministry of Culture, and I believe that by the end of this process, I'm going to get a report from that ministry and it's going to be more complete. As I've seen, this is just preliminary, I guess there will be more data, but you know, if we're calling for us as a people, as a state, so much trouble, then I'm really wondering how it's possible that, in such difficult circumstances, some, as the Republic Property Directorate has done, the Republic of Serbia has been able to use funds from the account of a permanent budget reserve of 124 million dinars, as well as loans, compensations and revenues from earlier years of 38 million dinars, and that's the largest part for that famous house in Dedinj, Užička 28. Also, if we were sick, why for example at the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry were bought for 19,853,000 suits, leather jackets, purses, why it was done for 41 people who were not employed in the ministry, why mobile phones, also for people who were not in the ministry, gave money for the adaptation of residential facilities, and not to mention everything we talked about here these days about apartments that some, perhaps for a little while, spent two in some government of national unity or something like that, but still in these difficult circumstances sanctions and bombings managed to get apartments, to get pay, etc. Just to tell Mr. Ivkovic he didn't understand my colleague, Pitiæ. Mr Pajtic did not say that the FONAS account was transferred to the SPS, Mr Ivkovic. It was specifically transferred from the Ministry of Science and Technology account to the Socialist Party of Serbia 680,123 dinars, to the Serbian Radical Party 183,880 dinars, and in particular to FONAS 570,000 dinars, and I believe when you say FONAS did not transfer that money to the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6885	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6886	Basically, I think it's going phenomenal, since a certain gentleman who sometimes stopped by this room gathered the editors-in-chief and shared a criminal report on April 12th, that on April 13th, all the papers would publish a criminal report and show how controlled the media space of the DOS Central-Gyrgovish Inquisitor headquarters is. And since they did the investigation there, they filed charges, tried and ruled with me, now I'm in a position to show you, and I have this criminal record, and I have the prosecution's request, because they just got people from the media, so do I. Then I don't see any reason to go to a man anymore, but to tell him nicely through the media what's true. So, my dear gentlemen, not to go to the bench now, you've seen the record of the analysis of FONAS's work, the same man who signed the criminal charges against me. In that report, I can copy everyone, I can see the exact revenues of FONAS and FONAS expenditure, and there is no Socialist Party of Serbia. Dot. So we're done with 80% of the charges. As far as further charges are concerned, the gentleman in question claimed that there were indications that some of the donors were deliberately getting money from the Ministry to pay FONASSA. Let me tell you right now that I have 600 addresses to which the donation application went, which I didn't sign. I have contracts on sponsorship and donation of all who have paid FONASU 500 dinars, including the Institute which the distinguished mind shows. Furthermore, as far as the money being written, the gentleman in question wrote 680,000 for the SPS, but he did not write that he included equipment that was given in the form of rewritters, and for that there is a certificate in the Ministry of Science and Technology, and there is a FONAS certificate for two computers, a printer and I don't know what else was given for the work of special classrooms, language schools, which are free, IT schools that are free of charge, it's given to rectors, but FONAS counted as SPS and so wrote. Furthermore, 65,000 dinars paid for organisations that made badges, flags for FONAS, he registered it as SPS because he had a mission, people, so he declared the book a Serbian Radical Party. He had to do it, that was his job, that was his warrant and the control of a certain Mrs. Gordana, who sent him back 10 times to find something.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6887	Because FONAS has nothing to do with the SPS, and neither is SPO, for example. The word is made by MP Milisav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6888	Dear People's Messengers, you see the anxiety of a few of these groups of MPs, and those who sit nearer and those who sit further, their feet shake, their hands strain, just because we've opened a story today that's about them or their parties. We do not claim that one of you was involved in all this and that he was involved. Maybe the ones who did all this and didn't sit here. Thank God, one is in jail, one is not present for other reasons, which you know, and maybe someone feels called. I don't see why the legs are shaking. There's no reason if you're clean. This paper is hard to accuse, but he's not just saddening for you. It's one hard-core piece of paper for those of us who are in position. We weren't comfortable putting it together, because you covered up a lot of clues. So you just found out that the final budget account is 31.5 billion, and 4,844,000 by various accounts and 15 billion by what you've hidden, and we've learned within these 100 days. Why is he embarrassing us, too? It's just that we didn't make you change before. It's just that we belong to the same state. It's just that we're sitting with a lot of people together right now who shouldn't even have morals and cheeks to get to this pay phone. They should shiver, ask themselves questions. On October 5th, it was an option that suggested that those who humiliated Serbia and threw it under their feet should be banned. I didn't belong to that group. I felt that the democratic process should allow you to speak too and that you too should defend yourselves. Well, what are we waiting for? Just because we appreciate it for one minute, we appreciate the time, we didn't go out on all these points to talk and laugh, to play all kinds of Sugars, but to try as hard as we could to get the law to work. Unfortunately, many have stimulated various needs to have their own personal politicians, such as Sugarski. It's a tragedy of this congregation. If we were to enter this congregation as one statesman said, as one enters the church, act in harmony with the morals that exist, many would not appear here after this pay phone. Dear fellow MPs, six billion donations are attributed to us, as promised in the election campaign. I offer each and every one of you a bet, I'm taking the entire parliamentary group to lunch if somewhere in the paper brings me a slice that any DOS leader has said we'll get six billion dollars if the government changes in Serbia. How do you calculate exactly six billion? What wasn't three? What wasn't 12? You're making it up. But a hundred times a repeated lie, you think it will become true in the people. Now that you're in pain, now that the MPs of the DOS are applying, the possibility of telling the people is different, and suddenly she's nervous. How was it for us to put up with you three months here to talk about things, irresponsible, unproven? I offer you once again, from this pay phone, bring the newspaper, either regime or opposition, where it says that Djindjic, Batic, Covic or I don't know who promised six billion dollars. It's a lie. Brucate. You want to fight us again with the world. You say they're not helping us. A million marks were invested last year in our schools. I personally participated in the construction of a kindergarten in Užica, the House of Health in Ljubovija, dams in Žabara. Gave to make our children. Three million marks paid for our kids' electricity. And you, instead of having cheeks and morals, say thank God when there's someone today who wants to help us in this trouble, you're still attacking, like our biggest enemies. He says in this final budget account that 15 billion is hidden. And where is it hidden? Your president and this spare party, which he had for 10 years, and also yours, I'd be ashamed to be in it, believe me, for at least four years of this term, I wouldn't have come out for this pay phone if I belonged to that party, your president told us, out of prison, that he'd also funded the weapons. Do you know what he left behind as a mortgage to my child? That now these neighbors next door, with whom we have fought for you, will seek war damage. Neither Djindjic nor Kostunica nor Mihajlovic said it, but Milosevic from prison says he was not allowed to show, finance and arms from secret accounts through various budget items.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6889	Please, just a little closer to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6890	I know it's bothering you. Don't worry, and it's an integral part of this whole story. Your reserve commission has cleared everything. Your pension fund has emptied everything. Those who were called, who made objects, what they did. Thinking for a year listening, I didn't know I'd be waiting to read this paper where it turns out that the tax was being financed. And you took pictures. You ran from bridge to bridge. You couldn't skip the rivers, because there were no bridges, running, just taking pictures and showing how you build, like you were selling your apartments and not taking new apartments from taxes. In Vienna, you haven't shown anywhere here, you can't actually show it because it's probably the secret accounts, patch up 100 m of asphalt and declare that you've built a bridge. It's a shame. And raise a monument to the president, who is still alive, let the person "h" from abroad build a monument to the man who started construction, because the bridge ended in 40 days. There he is, and now there's that monument, the shame of ours, the shame of ours and yours. And this paper and this session would be meant for the following -- if Serbia never again welcomed such a tragic power, that our opposition would be as good as possible. Thank God you started learning, that you stopped drawing maps and maps, that you forgot about Ogulin, Virovitica and Karlobag, thank God you started learning about gross income, what the net income is, that's the same achievement on October 5th, achievement, because no longer in this assembly, for this speaker, we won't have to convince ourselves - who's a bigger Serb, and who they say is a traitor. The traitor is the one who stole the money, the traitor is the one who took the picture, and not with his money, the traitor is the one who humiliated Serbia, the traitor is the one who has quarrelled with the world, the traitor is the one who brought the children to leave our country, the traitor is the one who emptied the budgets, the traitor is the one who acted irresponsiblely after this speaker. If necessary, we will remain silent for three months, but don't think Serbia will shut up. Wherever we go, I've been to Little Blackie's, to the Fireman's, the people ask us, how do you stand with them? We'll hold out, because this is a lot less effort than it was before when I was an MP, when I had to listen to you fight us and how we had to fight again. If your president were in power today, and thank God he didn't, today the theme of this assembly would be -- what part of Montenegro we're going to break off, how many police died down there, will the military introduce occupation and what will be? May God help us, that we no longer have these topics, and you learn, learn, if necessary, and the board will be brought to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6891	The word is Mr. Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6892	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, there's no reason to fall into the fire. All topics can be talked about, believe me, when I tell you, there's no reason to fall into the fire. All topics can be discussed, especially those topics that should be on the agenda of the congregation. Just one sentence before that - the previous speaker mentioned one information, which has the character of state secrets. I must say, to the public, that information was published by the current government and that it had the character of state secrets, until then, no. The second thing is, today we're talking about the final budget bill for 2000. It's this paper, on over 200 pages. He's very transparent, to use your expression, he's talking about what the funds have been spent on. It's this piece of paper we're talking about and who we need to make a statement about. I can't help but feel that, unfortunately, there are bad intentions, and actions of the government, and acts of the parliamentary majority, with this subsequent report. Why - if you really wanted to make one comment of this paper, which is very, very detailed, with all positions both in particular and in the individual part, as the minister said, with special and some other accounts, but everything here is contained, if you really wanted to make a comment, then why did you give us a comment, or information, for 14 bodies? Why didn't it wait to be done for the whole thing? Why does he want to break down the road now, quickly, through one piece, to draw a conclusion that has a general character? The second thing, if the intentions are truly honorable and fair, why did it not leave the possibility of persons mentioned or who were at the head of these bodies, why were they not given the opportunity to make known what is considered to be unintended or unlawful spending of funds? Why does one ministry, or congregation majority, take on the role of both the prosecutor and the judge? We, the Socialists, are going to talk about this paper, which is called the Final Account Act, and we're going to say our position, and we're not going to leave any questions without an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6893	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6894	It's easy to encourage an MP, whose head is no longer for a haircut, to say anything behind this pay phone, easily. Come out, you braves, which at least you know something about life, not him. Now I'm thinking, after what he said, he's going to go to Mali Zvornik, how when you accuse this country of helping Serbs in Republika Srpska and buying them guns, and that time we were buying them guns, there was a time when Zoran Djindjic ate roasted ox at the Palace (Glass from Hall: He didn't eat. He didn't eat, did he last time, in the last session you said - he didn't burn, and now you say he didn't eat the ox. Now, it's very difficult, Mr. Petkovic, to leave this side of Drina and look at those on the other side of Drina, and tell them - the criminal who helped you fight this war. But what you're going to do is the easiest thing to say. I know what you're up to. Suffer, for God's sake, for three months, you have nothing to say. You've had your chance, no one has defended you, and you're preparing revenge in the form of a debate on the final budget for the year 2000. Like he couldn't be on the agenda from March 15th to today, at every session we held. No, you've been waiting for these reports. And now you're clibrating here, enjoying yourself, living, saying that all of them are thieves, that it's immoral for us to sit in the assembly, and I'm inviting you, and what you said, Petkovic, that you don't go out to Mr. Petkovic and you say -- Tomislav Nikolic was a thief in the previous government, but that's why Stevan Kesejić wasn't. If I was a thief, there's no one left to make such an accusation, but I'm telling you, no SRS minister has committed any of these sins, which you're trying to load here today to the members of the government. On the other hand, this report, does it apply to the period until you came to power, or to that period that you mention here, as the most successful period, that last three months last year, does this final account refer to what the Socialists, the Radicals and the JUL did, or what the transitional government did, in which you participated? That's why we're not voting for the final budget. Let's not vote him out, but let the prosecution and the courts vote him. Let them determine that the funds have been spent, whether they have been spent on purpose or not, so that when everyone's responsibility is determined, we can return the bill on the final budget bill here to the Assembly, and re-enact ourselves. But I told the citizens of Serbia in the campaign -- if you vote with Vojislav Kostunica and DOS, you vote for your traitors to come to power, for both Republika Srpska, and Republika Srpska, and Montenegro, and Kosovo and Metohija, both Vojvodina and Raska areas. This is now the dominant ideology in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but this is not how you declared yourself in the campaign. If you said Neda Arneric would decide how to run state policy in Serbia, citizens would certainly not vote for you. If you said you were going to enter the NATO Pact, the citizens wouldn't vote for you. If you said you'd commend a million dinars a NATO pact member brings to build us a school, you wouldn't have the citizens vote for you. Hundreds of billions have destroyed and hundreds of children have killed in aggression against the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6895	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6896	You're living here on some of the papers that the members of the government brought to you today and said, "Come on, you who are the worst of all MPs, you come out for a pay phone, because these others are ashamed to talk about it."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6897	The word is Milisav Petkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6898	I didn't insult Mr. Nikolic because I was telling the truth, and he did, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 99.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6899	Don't do the replica now. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6900	Article 99 says the MP must respect the right of another MP, respect him, and Toma Nikolic says I must not return to my post, which offends me and disrespects me. I can always raise my heads to return to Zvornik, because in Zvornik they accepted me even when you fought, when you hated, when you argued with all those you shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6901	I didn't give you the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6902	I ask if you are allowed to go to Zvornik, Srebrenica, if you are allowed to go to Gracanica, and Mile Petkovic is allowed to head all over Serbia, including Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6903	I'm just asking that you don't do what you do to others. You mentioned Mr. Nikolic, and that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, you know that's what it says. He's entitled to a replica on behalf of the party. You write the rules and don't be surprised. Please slowly put the assembly in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6904	Mr. Petkovic mentioned me by name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6905	You have the right to a replica. (Glass from the O.R.: Let's vote. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6906	You can vote whatever you want, but the truth remains recorded for all time. The truth is, I'm allowed to go to Republika Srpska, although that's where your allies banish me whenever I go. I went to Srebrenica when it was dangerous to go there, and now it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6907	Stop throwing away all those pitches and dialogues from the scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6908	I can't go to Gracanica now, because I need a KFOR escort. To me, these aren't the people I'd be sitting with in the same car. When we release Gracanica, I say to you, and we will release her once we have removed you from power, I will go to Gracanica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6909	The word is Neda Arneric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6910	I'm taking a chance on Mr. Tommy Nikolic's replica. Anyway, I wouldn't know how to deny myself in a statement that I thoughtlessly and hastily gave to a magazine, which reads "Mr. Nikolic is simply a perfect MP, always has an answer to everything, and several times he pleasantly surprised me with his gallanty. There's this proud gentlemanly way of stepping out and it's terribly subdued for many subjects. True, sometimes he turns a little bit into primitiveism, but what you're going to do is that's his party. "This way I really want everyone who reads the newspaper of this kind, to whom I gave this interview, to apologize and to say that I made a drastic mistake. Toma Nikolic did not deserve to be mentioned more in his life at all, for better or for worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6911	Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6912	Article 99(1) says, "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." It would be my honor never to be mentioned again and never to be separated from the SRS again. Now I've finally established that you have a voice. I've seen hundreds of your films, and I couldn't conclude by now that you can speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6913	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6914	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the work of this assembly of parliament has marked the daily and constant criticism of the opposition representatives and the abstention of the discussion of the representatives of the authorities. Some will say that because we had no arguments to go out with and say that we felt that the laws, which we support with our own voice, would speak for themselves much more than what we say for a pay phone. This is the first, for now, opportunity where we are obliged to speak, not to be silently and silently, as it seemed for the past ten years, to press the key and thus verify and support something that is in itself deeply dishonest, finally and against the law. That it is, among other things, a nervous reaction of the opposition's work that only offends facts and arguments, facts and arguments in which no name, facts and arguments are mentioned, and the purpose in which these sums are spent. It's not a newspaper article, not a pamphlet, it's not a falsified copy that proves someone's school crash, it's not a falsified paper that proves a fake car accident, getting out of the country. It is an official report on budgetary control, an inspection that must be unhindered in our society and that will be unhindered while it depends on the support of DOS MPs. It is a report that speaks of who and how he spent the hard-earned resources of our society. We didn't support the policy that made the border on Drina. We did not flee from our people when we felt that he was hurt, but neither were we nor will we be those who sacrifice their people, and yet we are not prepared to bear any personal sacrifice, even moral sacrifice. Today, it is being asked here by the MPs of the former government, the representative of that authority, to bear a moral sacrifice, to give up sometimes when they have no argument to return to our fact or to come up with an argument that is not an insult and a protest and answers to what we are doing here today. We have no right to remain silent on this subject, nor will we ever be silent on such matters in the future. We have the right to say that the laws we support will say enough. That's how it's gonna be in the future. But you won't wait, in this agenda point, for DOS MPs' club to be silent and that silence to cover forever everything that was lawlessness and immorality that marked your authority, because these are facts and arguments that you have no answer to, except for prosaclysms.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6915	The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Vucurovic, the next MP, Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these 200 pages of the final budget for 2000, for which many of you came out here and said it was a shame, you just made it up. We, at least the ministers of the SRS, didn't participate in this, and neither did the ministers, as far as I can see, from the SPS. This shame, as you call it, has been made by a transitional government in which you, the SPS and the SPS were in. A third of the shame you bear. How much money was spent until October 5th, and how much after October 5th, and even this famous report of yours doesn't show. And the next phase will be that the minister came out and said it was done in democratic countries. And he said he democratically set a deficit in the billion-400m dinar budget, and he did not say that the former government left it in the budget reserve of 250,000.000,00 dinars. If there's two and 450 in the reserve, and there's one and 400 missing in here, then it's really one big deficit. In democratic countries, Mr. Minister, the budget is not adopted, nor the budget law, until the adoption of the final budget account for the previous year is implemented. In democratic countries, Mr. Minister, neither the budget nor the tax laws are adopted, until a law on the basis of the tax system with which these laws in Serbia must be harmonised is passed. The federal assembly withdrew yesterday from the tax system's tax system-based procedure, and our tax laws had to be in line with it. We now have laws that are not laws and that do not bind anyone. After all, the laws, neither these nor any other, bind you at all. You can rule without law. In the democratic world to which you are calling, and the procedure is known, first, the final account of the budget, then the budget, then the law on public revenue and public expenditure, and then the rest of the tax laws. We first adopted the service laws with the Democratic Minister, and then the law on public incomes and public expenditures. The law on public income and public expenditure is not in line with federal law. In that federal law, a bunch of taxes, which we now have to pay, don't exist. It's democracy. Democracy is a transparent budget. In the last budget, one third of the funds were not seen, it was not transparent. You can't see 40% of the funds in this budget. 40% of the funds are transparent, like in a lead box. It's 19 billion dinars that have been given to ministers for personal spending, and 29 billion budget reserves, which will also be spent, that's 48 billion out of 129, let's say now, so much with all those amendments being made by the amendment. It is also democratic that you have committed three crimes prior to the budget, which in the past was called a threat to the country's economic stability; that you have created a black fund in the budget of about 30 billion dinars and that we have proved to you from here that for a $1000 black fund in your democratic world and how it suits you. Before budgeting, you transferred the famous regulation to the Croatian budget 30 million dollars and for this amount you denied our shipowners, and the budget directly for 15 million marks, because if the Yugoslav river shipbuilding "Pinky" and the rest of our drivers carried that crude oil in the amount of three million dollars, the amount we needed to take it, in this country there would be 30 million dollars left, and Yugoslav river shipping would pay a tax on those 30 million dollars, which would be roughly around 15 million marks. It's how you work in a democratic world. Going out for a pay phone and priors and talking about how what we're doing right now is very transparent, and how you've been doing it through surgical, and then four more pairs of gloves of others, it's for not to believe. The budget control that did this famous document of yours, it's an informal ad hoc group. It is known who in this country and who in all countries in the world is carrying out budgetary control, is carrying out a budgetary inspection. Not your aunts, aunts, brothers, uncles and others you picked up from various organizations, to whom you paid and brought them to find witches. This informal ad hoc group, which has been doing budget control, has done as it has done, believe me, neither have I looked nor will I look at your material, nor am I interested in it at all. It is a shame that the Parliament, and before that, the Government, accepts it as some official document and that it is here for us to play and to enable those people, who have never really said anything in their life, and who really have nothing smart to say, and they will not have to say in the future, to come out here and to have beautiful labels. About the label we are not now, but for all these 10 years, parliamentary governments have said a lot of things. The only problem is, what you said then, you're not saying now. The other problem is that those funds your friends from the West said they shared, remained untaxed, so maybe this report would look very different. Maybe this final bill would have looked a lot different if you had received what you received from the West to sell what you could sell, paid the tax. And oil, among other things, unfortunately I can't sell seeds, my dad taught me to do oil.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6917	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralić, and the next is the MP, please let us hear from each other, Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6918	Dear People's MPs, Madam Vice-President, esteemed journalists, Mr. Minister, we have an undisputed material that has been formed by the Serbian government's financial service, which has been reviewed and adopted by competent committees and adopted by the Serbian government, and this is a proposal from the Serbian government. We have before us a draft budget bill for 2000. I have nothing to add to what it says in this report, and I accept every letter written in it and I will vote that this law be passed. I understand the opportunity of a number of political parties and MPs to say something else in the context of the adoption of this law. I don't argue with them on that occasion. It is, among other things, a tool for their political struggle, their method of action, by making all those who advocate the dignity of this home and who honor others' inadequacy in behavior, do everything they can to make it a personal example for this speaker, who is the strongest, the same. This law that we are about to pass today does not produce any legal consequences. He does not create any obligation for the government, nor gives the citizen of Serbia any right. It is, above all, a product of need and legal obligation to adopt a final account at the end of one financial year. The risk of not passing this bill by opposition MPs, one who would eventually be able to accept it today, has a real impact in its operation, so this law will be undisputed. We should say, however, what kind of economic, economic and political environment the government has worked in, whose final account we are adopting here today. There's no reason to throw, I've never been a MP, I've never been a minister, and I promise I'll be one day. So everything that one government does makes out of its best intentions to allow users as much as possible with as much resources as possible under the given circumstances. I don't dispute that intention with your government either. Whoever thinks otherwise is being dishonest about this assembly and the citizens of Serbia. There was a little misunderstanding here and a little conflict over certain exclusivity, it is true that at the very beginning of today's session, a number of MPs, particularly members of the Democratic Party, were very proud to keep one material, with fluorescent pens undermining various paragraphs in it, but I understand that too. It's an attempt by DOS itself that one party here today, unlike others, has some more information and, in a certain way, my party's political opponents, likes it more. I understand that, too. What I don't understand, my dear sir, last time you threw yourself at me to hang myself, and then one morning you found me hanging from your friend's neck, don't throw it away, it's not nice, it's not relevant. Don't throw it away, there's no reason, I listened to you, I didn't throw it away. Serbian citizens have a worse picture of us than she actually is. Our mutual treatment outside this room is on a higher level, as you prefer to say, civilized, than it is in the O.R., but it's because of a political struggle. We today, as you said, need to swallow in a sense a bitter pill, you call it morale or some other names, for the wrong actions and for the insufficient actions of those who were government in the previous period. The government has only one problem -- it wanted to do more than possible. It's the only thing I blame her for. That's why this report is, which is why your sermons today are rightly and somewhat justified. I know it's easy for you to throw, whoever isn't a thief, Your Honor, and I'd be happy to pay for your shaves, to throw the stone up, so let him wait for him, and if he doesn't fall on him, then be considered an absolutely honest man. It is true that you were waiting for the opportunity to adopt the final budget for 2000 almost two months after the adoption of the 2001 budget. I also understand that, even though it's not common. You wanted a chance. You took a chance today. Serbian citizens should weigh what is essential, and if you think the final budget bill for 2000 is not good, don't vote for it, I will. The time will come for us to adopt some other final accounts. I hope with the same zeal, with the same criticism, with the principle, which you stood for here today, and then you talk about that final account. Don't minimize what's done, don't talk about bridges, schools, everything that's done and fixed, because it really doesn't make sense. You should've done all that. It's true that the budget doesn't work under the law of connected properties and that it can't be taken from one place, if the other is missing. Every budget position is a position for itself, and whoever wants to spend someone else's position, and if he spent the first, he has to make a rebalance, but understand the circumstances in which all this was happening. Could it have been possible to wait for a session of parliament to be called, to rebalance the budget, and only the Assembly could do so without ending those things that are of vital interest to all citizens of Serbia. You systematically throw - thieves, or thieves, it doesn't matter, whatever you do, you can't insult me. There's nothing you can do to confuse me, there's nothing you can do to distract me from the SPS program, and there's nothing you can do to scare me. I don't shake my legs like you said, I'm not shaking anything, it's just that the day will come that your legs will be reminded because you're killing Serbia systematically and constantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6919	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, and the next is MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6920	Dear President, you really have something against me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to begin at the very beginning that one of the papers that we have received as part of these papers, which no one has commented on, to say only that this is a confirmation of what I stand for in this assembly and my discussion in considering the amendments that I have proposed, and also my discussions that have contributed to the government withdrawing its Bill on State Authorities and Public Services, for the reasons that we have presented here and all of the reasons we have heard about this speaker. Indeed, I would like to return to this topic of the final account, it is really very difficult to consider the document that was conducted and implemented by the two governments, the government of Mirko Marjanovic and the transitional government of Milomir Minic, and the third one supported and proposed to adopt, it is the government of Mr Zoran Djindjic. I don't know why the ministers and vice presidents in this government, none of them mention the president of this government. Did they forget who suggested them or didn't teach them that yet? Indeed, this third government has tried to show the results of the work of previous governments in the most transparent way, instead of its budget. It is now clear to everyone that in this Serbia is not and why the final budget bill for 2000 has not been considered first, and then the budget for 2001, and I will only point out three reasons. The final budget account is incomparably, i.e. three times more transparent because it has 212 pages with the report, compared to 70 pages of the 2001 budget, and also 254 items of the 2000 budget were allocated to 32.7 billion dinars, and in the new 2001 budget in 180 items, i.e. the position was allocated four times more funds, i.e. 129.4 billion. The report on the final budget bill for 2000 does not reveal any illegal work, which has served you before you show the people your budget and your new tax policy, to make it easier for the people, which will quickly return to you as a boomerang. Now this document should be served, at least at the beginning it looked like that, as the basis for a mounted witch hunt in which your representatives participated, which is done by a flat-rate review under the directive that something must be found and not come out until something is found. Furthermore, the budget deficit reached is covered by the funds of the special account, and in your 2001 budget, despite the inclusion of these funds, means special accounts in the budget, a planned deficit of around 22 billion dinars has been shown. Next, part of the expenditure was determined and determined by the government, which makes up the new government. What he says is not a neck but a neck, because the largest items in the 2001 budget are the Social Fund for Single Aid, the Structural Adjustment Fund, the Bank Restructuring Fund, the subsidies in the economy given to the Government for the deployment under a specific programme, which the previous Government did as well. The previous government also deployed funds to remove the consequences of earthquakes, NATO aggression and other special purposes that were within the specific accounts. The new government is also dealing with certain problems that pressure them by providing certain loans, probably from these specific purposes and from transitional accounts. The previous governments also had a gross budget principle, as well as this new budget, the only thing that was not respected by the 2001 Assembly's conclusion, given that revenue for January 2000 was transferred for the previous year, and I also think that a certain number and specific accounts contributed to creating one problem here that the previous government, the Socialist Party and those governments were against the gross principles of the budget, and I think the same law applies to both. I would like to point out here in particular what concerns the contribution number 3, which is the report on the revenue achieved and the use of the funds achieved under the Security Act for the removal of the earthquakes in the Kolubar County in 2000 and to highlight the results of the renovations, which individuals from the municipality of Minonica and some ministers are trying to minimise, and since their takeover of local authorities from eight months ago and ministers four months ago nothing was built or completed, since it has not even begun. I must point out that this report has not been adopted by the Council for Construction and Development of the Colubary County for the previous year, given that it has not yet been formed in the previous four months. What has been done and built so far? New and renovated over 1,550 individual housing facilities were built for the most damaged hosts of the total area of about 100,000 square meters and the total value of around 40 million German marks, just as in this year they disappeared from this government, given that the other day I heard two billion and 200 dinars of the funds planned for, made according to the Financial transaction Tax Act. Only a billion dinars will be directed to the Kolubar district, which means about 47%, and the main machinations under the orders of certain ministers, primarily the justice and management of the municipality of Mininica, were which in the previous year the government of the Republic of Serbia did not transfer some 370 million dinars to the Kolubar district, but included them in the coverage of the budget deficit for 2000. The flat roofs of 27 residential buildings in Valjevo were renovated with over 200 apartments, as well as roofs in settlements around Krusik, regardless of whether the damage occurred from the earthquake or from the bombing. Addressing the housing needs of hosts and removing the effects of earthquakes on housing facilities had an absolute priority in the policy of spending funds and construction in the Kolubar County. So far, they've criticised that we haven't finished all the houses, and the new government has already suggested that what we've done to the owners must be partially paid or returned. The second priority was public service facilities, i.e. school facilities, where the new 16 school facilities have been built so far, and four home schools were also so rehabilitated, where more than 13,100 square meters of new school rooms were built totaling about 11 million German marks, and Mr. Shumarac, Minister, in Mionica, said that the school in Mionica was extremely large, not blinking to show that it was attended by 900 students, who attended classes in two buildings before the earthquake and three shifts. The director of this show in Mionica came up with everything, as if his children were not attending school and the work on five school facilities of a total area of 6,900 square meters and the building of the elementary school "Milovan Glisic", the largest school facility was interrupted. (Glasses: Theme.) I'm talking about the subject, and anyone who doesn't understand doesn't have to listen. The work on five starting facilities as well as the largest Valjevo settlement of Brdjani, which has 16,000 inhabitants, was interrupted, more than the entire municipality of Mininica. Gentlemen, you and the Kolubar County, the end is being smitten by the People's Radical Party, which is never, even now, within DOS. Although the red district, exceptional attention is paid to the restoration of religious facilities, where the church facilities in Mionica, Radjev village were renovated, and works on the construction of the church in Valjevo, Cvetanovac and the restoration of the church in Grabovica were interrupted. It is done well on the road network, where it was reconstructed 16km of the highway, 25km of regional and over 20km of the most important local routes. The extensive works were also carried out on the reconstruction of electricity facilities, where 98km of power lines, 215km of low voltage network and 102 new trafostations were reconstructed, not only for the people of Kolubar County, but for all public enterprises and in the general interest of our Republic. I can find out that it's done a lot, but all the consequences haven't been removed, and that's why your measures and efficiency have helped to probably never be removed. I urge you to proceed urgently to rebuild the Colubary County, continue to rebuild, given that two months of funds have not been transferred to this district so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6921	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic. I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget, which, because of what the deputy head of the parliamentary group has already said, Tomislav Nikolic, SRS MPs will not vote. But I would say something, which the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia spoke of underestimatingly, and this is about the functioning of the Government in the previous period. In fact, every time before the budget was set, there were serious talks on how much money the ministry would get, how they would split up, how it would all work. And it usually happens that every minister wants to get as much as possible. Each minister wants as much money as possible for his field of social life as possible, because he will be a more successful minister, he will be able to pay more, he will be able to give more needs and demand to meet and that was something that was completely understandable and completely normal. Now, I have to point out to you the fact that she was deliberately kept silent here. There were a number of ministries, if you will, and here I know a few ministries led by the representatives of the SRS, who even received less in the nominal amount in the 1999 budget than in 1998, and how much inflation in 1998 you can check, and even in the nominal amount they received less, in 2000, the same or something more compared to 1999, and sometimes also less in nominal amount, with an inflation of 100%. You can see how real savings were and how restrictive budget policy really was and how much it was trying to be in line with the possibilities. Of course, the special story today is that we are told by those who have brought three or four times the budget, they are telling us and they have prepared for this session, counting on something as if they were going to bring some kind of surprise to all MPs, and we have almost read it all over the newspapers, because they were impatient enough to put it in every possible press release, so -- as someone will be surprised at what they're going to do on the agenda today. It's something else. The ruling majority's MPs couldn't have suffered criticism from opposition MPs for a month now. They couldn't stand the truth. They couldn't stand what I'm telling them here, about the destruction of their laws, about everything that seems to be in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Then the story came to talk about something that wasn't even on the agenda. God forbid they did this to radicals. It would not be about proscaluca, but all possible television on someone's orders, any possible newspapers, would have to write about how radicals are those who break and break the agenda, to obstruct the work of parliament, how they say what is not the subject, how they do wonders of all things, just to make it impossible for the people to live normally, etc. But there's something else here. Someone tried... Mr. Martian, will you remind that gentleman? He's nervous. What are you nervous about? (Glass - theme) What are you worried about? Just don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6923	Please pick up the word, don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6924	So much for proscration, and for him who casts it to the messengers of the people. So, since they were unable to endure such criticism, they came with something else to talk about. They thought that some would be afraid to discuss it and that they wouldn't talk about it. It will. We will, we just want to talk about it. Not about this paper, not about this final account, but just if you want to talk about this. There's no problem talking about it, and none of it's going anywhere. He doesn't think about it. And I've already explained, but you haven't been in the O.R., so I can't think of it again, but you're a little courteous and just be patient. So, I would just say and ask Minister Djelic a question -- in which section does the blinding of glass in the Government of the Republic of Serbia say, when the budget was adopted where it was written, Minister Djelic? Is this an accidental use of the funds of Serbian citizens? How much does that cost? How much does that cost? How much does that cost? (Glasses - who's asking? I'm asking. How much does that cost? Who wrote that? So, who's going to say whether it's intentional or not? Which is totally obvious. Where does that say? In what budget division? Who writes, and where does it say that some ministers ride helicopters to their jobs? Who's using helicopters? How much these helicopters cost, renting those helicopters. Where does that say, what section? Whether it's intended or not, and it's not the Ministry of the Interior, if it's something particularly urgent right now, so it's going to go somewhere to intervene. It's some other ministers. When someone's going to report it. So, I'm just saying, seeing as they're already getting the time, when opposition MPs say, they're mostly looking at an hour when they're gonna run out of those five minutes so they can tell somebody it's over. I have to remind them that this time, because they were counting on all DOS deputies to come out, they didn't limit time so they could talk for 10 minutes, not five minutes, and be patient. It's no big deal. Nothing's gonna happen to them for another three or four minutes. We remembered because we had one democratic principle that we never limit the debate and that we never ask anyone. You can't even blame us for that period you've been talking about for so long. Even during that previous period, there were no big ideas, big democratic ideas about the exclusion of television cameras, about closing down from the public, about making closed sessions, because there is something that should not be heard and not about Serbia's defence and security, but about affairs and scandals within the government of the Republic of Serbia. That really didn't occur to us in the old days. I'd like to say a few more things about the very law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In the draft bill on the final account of the budget, they talked about everything that has been said today and it was not on the agenda, so I expect that Mr. President of the National Assembly will not warn opposition MPs in the future when they speak of anything that comes to mind, not just what they would like to hear from the ruling majority's MPs. So, in this law it's really clear, and if you want me to use this expression of yours, it's pretty transparent to show that the financial resources were spent, what was the revenue side, what was the expenditure side. It seems to me, in terms of divisions, it's very precise for everyone, if they want to read it, but it seems to me that one part of the people didn't want to see it at all, that this book, that everything that's written here on, it seems to me, a hundred pages, at a free estimate, perhaps more, seems and more, didn't particularly interest them, but they were interested. Because they thought -- well, now we've reached the opposition, now we're going to say everything that comes to mind, we can say with the worst possible words and the worst possible inventions, we can even talk to them and what even from the time of the transitional government voted, which, in the time of the transitional government, has also been brought in, and even so, we can. When you talk about these TVs, for much smaller television, in the time of the transitional government, much more money has been transferred, etc., if you're talking about it, but it seems to me, completely natural and completely normal, when it comes to this ministry, and it's no big deal, and it's totally understandable. But as for these 19 billion, which are already being talked about here, that's the question, Mr. Djelic, which needs to be answered, and let's see where, how and how that money is going to be spent, who's going to control and how are they going to control the use and use of these financial resources? Will your ad hoc controls that you will form again, which of your friends, which of your relatives, which of the various other people, control it, so that it may be in the way that you want it, or will the National Assembly have an accurate insight into it, and the MPs are precise introduction to it, and let's see what I asked you, in what division it says -- how much did it cost and from which division are these financial resources allocated? Speaking of which, what has been used in purpose and what has been used without purpose, or if you want, what has been used legally, and what is against the law, it seems to me that this bill should not be accepted, if for no other reason, because of the fact that MPs of the ruling majority were so glad to be able to accept it, while at the same time speaking of something completely fifth, counting that they would be able, in the worst possible way, to attack each individual, in the worst possible way to talk about every member of parliament, who represents a political opponent, and not to speak at all about what is on the agenda and what is the interest of Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6925	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6926	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that we have failed to focus the debate on this agenda point in the direction in which this debate would be necessary. Among other things, and in the direction I wanted it to go, and I will remind you that I spoke about it in my first appearance, insisting that the use of the arguments and the fact be responsibly related to the law that this assembly should pass, the law on the final budget bill for 2000. Given that so far this topic has not been important for the representatives of the authorities, who have dictated the rules of conduct in this assembly, I think that we are obliged to point out the scandalous facts, which characterise the proposed law, to point out the lack of comprehensive information, which would concern all sections of the proposed budget bill for 2000, and not just the division that defines incomes, i.e. expenditures in 14 ministries and republican bodies. Accordingly, and above all, in the interest of our need to clearly determine who and how the State's resources have been spent, I propose that, in accordance with Article 137, Mr Djelic withdraw the proposal of this law, that the Government prepare a new law, that it use this time to fully use the state authorities, in particular the budgetary inspection, to examine the procedure that has been spent on budgets in the remaining ministries and republican bodies, to then add this information to the proposed law and organise a new session of Parliament, in which they would do something that has been precedentd - with the name and name of the person in this unhappy state and in what way is responsible for our failure. The basis for such a request is set out in Article 137, which says that the legislator has the right to withdraw the bill until the finalisation of the draft law at the National Assembly session. [[Applause]] Mr. Djelic, I ask you to respect this request and give us the opportunity to take as much time as it takes at a special assembly meeting in order to fully break up with the period of robbery between our society and its citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6927	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6928	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must admit that I expected everything in this room, but not that the chairman of the DOS speaks this badly of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Because if you have a Bill on the Final Account of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with you, you can read the following data - the Government of the Republic of Serbia, held at a session held on 15 March 2001 (I must remind you that all Inquisitor-China activities were completed on 9 March in the Government of the Republic of Serbia) concluded that on the basis of Article 90(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 128 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly a bill on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget, with contributions, with a proposal to be taken into consideration. A representative of the government at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was appointed Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy. Signed by Deputy Prime Minister Dr Vuk Obradović. So, on March 15th, the government of the Republic of Serbia sent this assembly a bill. This congregation received it in due time, and this congregation saw it in all parent committees. Did any committee, Mr. Chairman, object to the bill sent by the government - not. But the Inquisitor's staff has concluded that this story can be used under that system, "Kadaya sues you, cadiya sues you." Since all the papers are here, all the inspectors are working on the orders of those who are here, come on, we'll drain out of the drenina dry one drop of sin, corruption, and let us get into it. And that's when the pamphlet appeared, the pamphlet was divided into this congregation. We accept the story, as you can see, we're not running away from any discussion, not a single piece of information, and whoever sinned should answer. But what this means now -- this means that the DOS chairman now said the government is doing a bad job. If the government has to withdraw its law at the request of the majority in the Assembly, then the government should resign. My dear gentlemen, this isn't a playroom, this is a very serious house. It seems that many have forgotten that the highest authority in this country is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not its executive bodies, nor the unfortunate judicial authorities, which are under the total coercion of the executive body of this assembly. Therefore, dear gentlemen, this is legally directed draft law, it has passed all the procedures legally and should be legally discussed here until the end of the vote, and not used, how to feel, in further dealing with selectively selected individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6929	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6930	Mr. President, Madam Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, if this is a very important home, so I am experiencing it, it cannot be called a pamphlet what is the report in finding financial and material business control and the legitimate use of budget funds. That is why, given that many MPs from various groups feel that it is important at this point to supplement this control work that has begun, I agree in a legal way to withdraw this bill on behalf of the Government, until the control is complete, that control will be in the context and will reach you no later than next month.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6931	I find the proposal has been withdrawn. The agenda item has been completed. The word is Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6932	I'd just like to say, according to the Rules of Procedure, that today's scenario has failed, and we're at your disposal, once you've prepared additional materials, that we'll kick your ass just like we did today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-16-0.u6933	We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 146 MPs. Please determine if we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the absence was announced by the MPs: Ljubisa Djokovic, Aleksandar Popović, Stanko Kovacevic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vojislav Došen, Petar Misic, Sava Popadić, Vladan Jovičić, Pal Shandor, Dusan Tubić, Radić Joković, Aleksandar Stefanović, Branislav Pomorijski, Jon Čizaš, Karolj Kermeci, Zoran Novaković, Velimir Živojnović, Istvan Išpanovic, Nada Kolundžija. In the afternoon, Dragan Lazic is away, and in the afternoon Milan Milosavljevic, Zoran Micovic, Dragan Rafaelovic, Zoran M. Nikolic, Arsen Kurjački and Predrag Mijailovic. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Since conditions have been met, in order to fill the post, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to allow its participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Ruzica Veljovic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Ružica Veljovic. If he's here, I congratulate the People's MP on his election. We move to item 22 of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON SUPPORT FOR THE RURALS OF Small AND Medium ENTERPRISES, I would like to inform you that the session of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia will be held in the ground floor hall instead of in the second floor hall, as announced. [[Applause]] You have received the bill submitted by MP Branislav Ivkovic. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the bill should not be accepted. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee, which have not adopted the proposal for this law. I'm opening a principled search. Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
