ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 197 MPs attend today's session. Please confirm the quorum. I find there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Milan Radulović, Vlatko Sekulović, Višnja Nežić, Petar Misic, Slavoljub Matic, Milos Lučić, Ivan Andrić, Milutin Svetović, Milena Milosevic, Pal Shandor, Dragisa Popovic, Boris Karaic, Bosko Ristic and Dragan Janjic. In the morning, Cedomir Jovanovic was absent, and Vladan Jovicic announced a delay. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. A group of 41 MPs proposed that the draft decision on amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 September 2001, be considered after an urgent procedure. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a group of 41 MPs to consider, following an urgent procedure, a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask that we also vote to make the MPs known about this motion by voting. For 121 versus 39, there were no abstentions, no vote of 25, a total attendance of 185. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Mr. Nikolic has a word - according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is enough for the President of the National Assembly to begin a sentence that hurts the Rules of Procedure and does not allow you to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure until he finishes everything he has started. I assume you've now determined under article 74 that this proposal of yours is entering the agenda, but I warn you, we haven't adopted the minutes from the previous session. This is done before the agenda is established - under Article 83. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So I ask you, Mr. President, to respect the Rules of Procedure while there is one, while there is any written paper that the National Assembly has adopted as its Rules of Procedure and to allow me to receive the minutes from the previous session, so that, at the very beginning of the session, you leave the possibility the next day to make observations to that minutes, to quote a part of the minutes with which we do not agree and that the Assembly declares itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12328	Please vote to determine whether or not you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. We want to see what stage it's in. It was an extraordinary session. The Rules of Procedure don't treat that question. There's no express obligation. Let's see what's easiest. We'll make sure you work politely here. Since Mr Nikolic is not satisfied with the answer, the minutes will be divided during this session. We'll adopt him tomorrow. By the way, you're too early to object. First, we put this to a vote. Since Mr Nikolic is not satisfied with the explanation and the highlighted fact that the minutes from the extraordinary session will be divided, although he does not write anything explicitly in the Rules of Procedure for such cases, I am putting Mr Nikolic's proposal to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 63, against 122, abstentions two, did not vote 13, totalling 200. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's a word Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic is giving up. He has the word Željko Tomic, MP of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12329	Since the agenda has been established, I would like to appeal to Article 88. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and to suggest that the time of the presentation of the Members of Parliament is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12330	The proposal was made prematurely, but it's not dangerous. We'll take it into consideration when deciding. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Obradovic answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12331	Mr. President, fellow MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group suggests that, in accordance with Article 88. The Rules of Procedure, the debate on this agenda point, will be 15 minutes, because the Rules of Procedure are the basic act that regulates the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the work of MPs in the National Assembly, because the existing proposal for a decision audits these rights and because, objectively, it chokes the work of both parliament and parliament. I think it takes time to consider such an important question. And the public needs to be fully aware of what this proposal is carrying. In our opinion, this proposal, if adopted, means the introduction of a parliamentary terror in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12332	And we're gonna put this to a vote. Let me remind you, about 600 amendments have arrived. It's about 100 hours' work. If you think 100 hours of debate isn't enough to say a word about the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we'll keep that in mind. There's a word Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12333	Two members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured in the appointment of this session. First, Article 196 was injured. Of course, you can talk here about a certain conflict that exists in the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 196, when a request is submitted for a hearing on the trust of a Government or a single member of the Government, that debate must be scheduled no later than 15 days, at least three days, and not later than 15 days. We have a number of requests to vote in confidence, i.e. mistrust, to government members, to individual ministers. All these requests were submitted during the previous regular session of the National Assembly. Of course, the sessions were under way, there was no time to put it on the agenda, we entered an emergency session, there were no conditions for it to be in the agenda of the extraordinary session, but by nature things, it was supposed to be in the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session, because it was the shortest possible time to satisfy this business form. We don't have that on the agenda today. I'm suggesting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I guess it'll be in the next one. It doesn't matter when it's put on the agenda. I'm just pointing out it had to be today, and it didn't. Furthermore, Article 154(2) has been violated, which says that only a law governing issues and relations could be passed following circumstances that could not be foreseen, while the adoption of an emergency law could result in adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. The Rules of Procedure aren't the law. It is very similar to the law, but it's not the law. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure cannot be made by an urgent procedure, as neither the declarations, resolutions, decisions, conclusions, and any other legal acts adopted by the National Assembly can. You are today putting anti-business on the agenda a proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, although it is not about the law. Paragraph 3 states that the legislator is obliged to provide a written explanation of the bill's proposal to indicate the adverse consequences that would arise as a result of the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure, and, of course, the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure in its reasoning could not speak of any adverse consequences. It calls for reasons of efficiency, speed, expeditionivity, etc., which can all be the good wishes of the promoter, but are not in line with the Rules of Procedure. We must stick to the Rules of Procedure, not to the good wishes of the DSS parliamentary group. Therefore, by pointing out that you are putting counter-workers on the agenda under emergency procedure, I ask that this is not on the agenda by emergency procedure, but by going into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12334	What, as you know if you have noticed, and if you are not reminded, the congregation has already decided. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12335	Since DSS MPs have asked for the time of debate to be limited to five minutes, and since these same MPs have proposed a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, which will completely take away the right of the MP to speak in the National Assembly, I suggest that the time of the hearing in accordance with Article 88 be three minutes and 30 seconds, in order to get used to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12336	Mrs. Jovanovic according to the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to make a deal with Mrs. Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12337	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since this assembly is... (President: Please listen to each other, reduce your enthusiasm. ..... He showed you -- who are screaming and I ask you to calm down these members of the DOS group -- he showed with you in action, both at the level of the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the Assembly, that the greatest dictatorship in Serbia has prevailed. As long as that is the case with the DSS parliamentary group proposing such a monstrous Rules of Procedure, I suggest that the time of the presentation of the Members of the People be 37 seconds. That will be enough for you who are eager to adopt such rules of procedure. I suppose you'll be able to endure that much, but the question is, what's going to happen and I don't want to be in your shoes, Mr. Martian, but I've decided how long this session of the Assembly will take. Whether it will be 100 hours or 100 days, whether it will last until spring, we will see it, but I am sure of one thing: by then you will not recover, nor your MP group, nor your entire DOS, and as long as the people say theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12338	Do any of the other MPs, whose headache is the only proof that they have a head, have this kind of smart suggestion to suggest? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12339	In my neighborhood, it's called "the evil beef forever of June." It can be applied to these intruders that are heard behind our backs. So you've injured two members of the Rules of Procedure. I am not going out here because I expect you to vote that the president has hurt, but that in this chronology of depravity and seduction of dictatorship in Serbia, it remains recorded how you acted while you were running the National Assembly, and while you, gentlemen, the MPs of the parliamentary majority, provided the quorum that the session of the National Assembly was led like this. First, Vojislav Seselj objected to Article 154's injury and did not put you to the vote, regardless of what might be the outcome of the vote. Furthermore, article 83 is rigorous, Mr. President, and cannot be interpreted by a five-minute break and then by some authority, by a promise of what will happen. A member of 83 says we will get the minutes from the previous session of the National Assembly in good time, only predicting one possibility - that we will receive the minutes immediately before the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12340	Mr. Nikolic, I warn you, concerning these questions, and on one thing or another, the congregation has already declared itself, and I give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12341	That's not true, you didn't tell the National Assembly what it says in article 83, and I don't count on you giving me a warning while I'm making remarks about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. Nowhere in Article 83 provides that we can get a record from the previous session during the next session or today. Only a timely or immediate start of this session is foreseen. What you promised us now, it doesn't say anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. This session cannot begin until we have a record from the previous session. At the previous session, we did not discuss fish growing in the aquarium, but rather the choice of judges and public prosecutors. It's a very serious topic on which we've had a lot of objections and we want to see how it was implemented by the National Assembly decisions, we want to see the record and eventually make our remarks on the record. All of this had to be in the envelopes of the MPs before this National Assembly began. Lights and fires, Mr. Martian, that's coming to your tower very close.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12342	Mr. Nikolic, I have given you a warning because you are obstructing the work of the National Assembly by pointing out the objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that the National Assembly has already declared at your request. Mr. Seselj did not apply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the Assembly to declare it, and if so, the National Assembly had already spoken of it. Repeating the objection, which the National Assembly has already declared, is nothing more than a distraction from the work of the National Assembly, and that is why you received your first warning. Mr. Seselj by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12343	First objection to the previous problem. The National Assembly didn't say anything about my advertising to the Rules of Procedure's injuries. The National Assembly only pleaded on the agenda, but the National Assembly can hurt the Rules of Procedure, so it must be declared that the Rules of Procedure have been violated and that is why you had to put it to the vote. It doesn't matter to me anymore. I demand that the National Assembly declare whether Mr. Martian has injured Article 28 and 99. The Rules of Procedure when he asked if any of the other MPs, whose headaches only serve as proof that they have a head, were looking for a word. That's what Mr. Martian said and you all heard it. If by voting now we find that the National Assembly supports it, Mr. Martian, and that he does not violate the Rules of Procedure when he says so, when he tells the MPs that the headache is the only proof that he had a head, then we can move on with normal work, because for you DOS's people it is normal work and it is normal to treat the president of the National Assembly with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12344	I'm putting Mr. Seselj's proposal to vote. For 67, against 119 abstentions 8, it did not vote 11 and a total of 205 MPs were present. And we removed this objection from the agenda. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the only one in this assembly room is in violation of the Rules of Procedure that is the president of this assembly, Mr. Martian. I, Mr. Martian, remind you of Article 101, on the basis of which you gave notice to Tomislav Nikolic, saying that he is obstructing the work of the National Assembly. Obstruction of the work of the National Assembly is a broad term and is not contained in any of these paragraphs of Article 101, so I will read Article 101, which is binding on me and the Rules of Procedure. "The notice is given to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly President (this Tomislav Nikolic did not do so), who spoke before he asked and received the word, (it also did not), who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, is talking about a question that is not on the agenda (The Businessman was always on the agenda), if he interrupts the speaker in exposure or throws, that is to say, disrupting the speakers and otherwise jeopardising the freedom of speech (you were the only one who interrupted him in the exercise and could possibly not have offended you), if he presented the facts and assessments concerning the private life of other persons (it was not the subject of his discussion), if he used swearing and offensive expressions (no one was offended, although you could have interpreted it by the fact that he had come out for the speaker, but you should have said so, if you were using other actions in the procedure against business. "So, your way of interpreting the Rules of Procedure proves once again that you are absolutely unable to sit in the place where you sit and express your warnings in such a way as you like when you like and mostly the MPs of the SRS. Given the Rules of Procedure that are being prepared for us, if the majority of the assembly brings it, it is best to put security right here at the door and not allow the MPs of the SRS to enter this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12346	Are you asking the Assembly to plead? Yeah. ) I ask the National Assembly to declare its objection to Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 53, against 127, there were no abstentions, no 26 votes, a total of 206 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept the objection of Gordana Pop-Lazic. The word is Mr. Seselj, the businessman.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12347	I repeat the request that the National Assembly vote whether a 154 member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken. There was a vote on the agenda, not my advertising. There's got to be a vote on my advertising after the Rules of Procedure's injury. You gave no reason to warn Tomislav Nikolic about it, and you were wrong. You must put it to the vote whether Article 154 is injured because you are not the only one who violates the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure may violate the entire National Assembly and each MP individually. I am taking this opportunity to express my deep gratitude for the fact that the National Assembly has said that I, too, am one of the Members of Parliament to whom the headache is the only proof that it has a head. I thank you sincerely and warmly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12348	I would like to put to the vote Mr. Seselj's objection that there has been an injury to Article 154. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 64, against 134 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no breach of Article 154. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone else answering for a word in the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Marko Petrovic proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 March 2001, be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of MP Marko Petrovic to consider, by emergency procedure, the draft law supplementing the Health Insurance Act. For 12, against 127, with 35 abstentions, 35 did not vote, a total of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Janjic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12349	According to article 88, I request that the presentation of Members of Parliament be held for 11 seconds. It's thought that the world record is about 10 seconds in 100 meters, and we're all closer than 100 meters to the pay phone, so it takes about 11 seconds to be effective in the work. Since you vote that people have a head if they have a headache, and you even voted to insult that some court fool is not an insult, but a compliment, from now on I will address the chairman as "the court nut". If he thinks he's gonna give me a warning, I'm looking for a stenogram from the session when you voted it wasn't an insult. I know you've got the competition for who's gonna be in court, the court's crazy, but you're not gonna get that function. There's a lot of candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12350	National MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Dragan Tomic proposed that the draft law repealing the Government of Serbia's decision No 713-6483/2001 since 28 June 2001, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 2 July 2001. I am putting forward a vote on the proposal of MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Dragan Tomic. For 65, against 136, there were no abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. Please plead. For 136, against 46, there were no abstentions, no 29 votes, a total of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 as a whole. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA We have five proposals regarding the length of the debate. The first proposal is to set the debate for five minutes; the second proposal is 15 minutes; the third proposal is 3.33 minutes; the fourth proposal is 0.37 minutes; the fifth proposal is 0.11 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12351	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask that the President of the National Assembly correct himself, because zero coma eleven cannot be said when it comes to time. There is no decadent system in time measurement. When it comes to measuring time, time is measured for hours, minutes and seconds. One hour has sixty minutes, and one minute has sixty seconds. Only if we go to smaller units than a second, it's tens and hundreds, there's only a decadent system there. If not, then let us open the previous debate on this matter, so that it can be determined by the vote of the Assembly whether one minute has 10 seconds, 100 seconds or one minute has sixty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12352	You're partly right. But I, as chairman, cannot change the proposals. I was wrong in two cases, and in one case I didn't. So, they had to recommend that they take care of how they suggest. I just have to repeat what their proposal is. For example, the proposal was three and a half minutes, but you have to discuss this as part of the parliamentary group, this question of the decadent system. I'm putting the motion to vote to limit the debate to five minutes. For 128, v. 67, abstention 10, did not vote 8, in total, 213. I find that the National Assembly has decided to limit the time of debate within this item of the agenda to five minutes. You have received a motion for a decision by a group of 41 MPs. You have received amendments submitted to the proposal for a decision by the MPs at the conclusion of yesterday. Amendments which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will be submitted to you during the session. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Administrative Committee. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was set aside by MP Dragan Rafaelovic. According to Article 153(2), I am opening my Rules of Procedure a unique search into the motion for a decision. Does the People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, the proposing representative, want the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12353	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the DOS and the Democratic Party of Serbia are not discouraged by the number of amendments that have arrived at this draft decision and the threat that we will stay here for a month, two days and that we will need so much time to consider and adopt a new amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure. It is nothing compared to what the citizens of Serbia have suffered for the past ten years and what we are doing today is fulfilling their debt to them. The changes in Serbia are due to an unspeakable obstruction in this country and because of one unspeakable debauchery, which this assembly is exposed to, which is simply what our citizens did not deserve and we have to do everything to make change in Serbia faster. It's our debt to them and we'll do it, even if we sit here for two months, but it's just a job we have to do and we won't give up, we'll just file 5,000 amendments, we'll sit here and work. As I said, this is a proposal submitted for formal reasons by the Democratic Party of Serbia. Otherwise, this is a proposal from the entire DOS. It is in line with all parliamentary groups in the DOS, primarily the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, the Movement for Democratic Serbia and the New Serbia parliamentary group. This is a proposal that should allow this parliament to be efficient, economical, rational. This is a proposal that should allow this parliament to be the face of Serbia. We didn't want to, and we didn't run new solutions, and we didn't want to invent that hot water, pothole or anything else that Milosevic's regime did before us. We just wanted to make our legal system and our parliament European and do what needed to be and to introduce our parliament, our country into the Council of Europe. We must measure not with Libya, Iraq, Cuba, but with countries that have a long parliamentary tradition. The rules of procedure were followed by parallel law, followed by practice in the parliaments of Europe, and was in line with the rules of procedure on the work of these parliaments. This is the rules of procedure guaranteeing the right of the opposition and favouring the opposition, which gives greater rights to the opposition, by somewhat undoing the number of MPs and the size of parliamentary groups. That's what we'd like as an opposition, if one day we were, although unlikely, to wish. This is the Rules of Procedure, which guarantees us and the opposition the right to reason on all the draft laws that will come to this assembly. Logically, there will be an appeal to this Rules of Procedure and we expect it from the opposition, that is their right, that is some of their obligations to the citizens. The only thing we expect is for the debate to be extremely argumentative, because in Serbia we simply want this parliament to become what it is not, to become a house house that looks like the houses of all those hosts in Serbia who voted for DOS and who will not be ashamed to say that this is a Serbian parliament, this is our parliament and we feel it as ours. All that's not the case so far. Serbian citizens do not view this parliament as a parliament. They see him as, like, days of saying, circus or some other stuff, theater. This is not good, and it is necessary to establish in Serbia what has been destroyed decades earlier, which is parliament, parliamentaryism and responsibility above all. This is a workman who will insist on responsibilities -- party responsibilities, the responsibilities of MPs' clubs that will come from these parties. This is the Rules of Procedure which will concentrate largely on parliamentary groups, because we have a proportional electoral system on which the parties who form their parliamentary groups appear. Citizens will know best how the party works, beyond how the party fulfils the obligations set out in the Rules of Procedure, proposes laws, proposes amendments, as it behaves in the Assembly. That's what needs to be pointed out. We don't want to run from responsibility. This is the Rules of Procedure which will show the citizens who are responsible for what they are doing, which group of MPs and which party is responsible, which is not responsible, which one is talking and the other is working. (President: Time. I'd put it together, since I have three times the right to use another five minutes. We want to return to Serbia for decades asphyxiated parliamentaryism. We want Serbia to get a home parliament. We want every Serbian family to be identified with this parliament, because we owe it to her. According to some MPs and some parliamentary groups, the parliament did not mirror Serbia. He is not what Serbia really is. He's all the opposite of that. We want to introduce reasoned debates into this parliament. We want to show the face of parliament again and we want to change the system. The changes we stand for must begin here, in this House and we, the MPs the people have chosen to lead the country responsibly, must show what kind of Serbia we want. What kind of changes do we want, and how are we going to behave? This parliament shows us, precisely because we have obstructions to do, obstructions to obstruct changes in Serbia, to obstruct changes in the system, to have people who want to cement the existing state, to cement poverty and fear in Serbia, to cement everything they have done for decades. We can't let that happen. We need to move quickly and responsibly on the path of change, quickly and responsibly to pursue reforms. This Rules of Procedure carries a lot of newspapers that the predecessors didn't do. The power and competence of parliament to control the privatisation process is restored. We had a privatisation process in a previous period that wasn't controlled. We knew how she was tried to sell cement. Fortunately, it's prevented. We knew a lot of other things that were done in Serbia in the privatisation process, which was spaced in the period until the new law was passed, so that citizens would be taken away from them. The Privatisation Committee should be in control and prevent any abuses that may be in the privatisation process. We don't think that's going to happen because you opposition MPs are going to control that process. The second very important thing, which is the tradition of all modern, democratic parliaments, is now the interpretation. This proposal of the Rules of Procedure introduces the interpretation into our Rules of Procedure. It's something we talked about when we were opposition, and now we're talking about being in position. It's something we want as an instrument for labour control and for asking certain questions from the government's domain and ministries to put weapons into the hands of the opposition. They, as representatives of citizens, have the right to ask questions from the authority of the Assembly and the Government, individual ministers, to discuss these issues and, if they so wish, to discuss the trust of those whose explanations on certain issues have been sought by interpolation. We gave them that instrument. There will be many different objections by the opposition to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, as there are provisions that are anti-constitutional and that is to be expected. And, you know, when you want someone to follow some rules, so let them be rules of good behavior, reasoned debates, he'll stand up to it at a certain point. But we want this parliament to become a real face and mirror of Serbia. In Serbia, people do not behave as some behave in this parliament. He did not mirror this Serbia, and we simply want the changes that begin in Serbia to begin with us here in parliament, to show that Serbia should look, how it should be arranged and that the responsibility that MPs will bear for each decision in parliament will be the responsibility that every man in Serbia will have in his private life, but also in the business that he does. There'll be time for further discussion. Now this much in this first presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12354	Are the committee's reporters reporting for word? No, I don't. Please, have you given your opinion? Yeah. Just once again to see if we have any representatives of the board? We don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12355	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mihajlov, on the Legislative Committee yesterday resented the lack of expertise. That's true. I'm not a lawyer, and if I make a mistake while I'm talking about this new Rules of Procedure proposal, no one can blame me for committing a crime. But those who have proposed this Rules of Procedure are those who are calling for legalism, legality, protection of the Constitution, and let us not forget -- this constitution was voted by our colleagues here several years ago, in this House. To be fair, I think this constitution is wrong and needs to be changed. The president of my party is Mr Batic, by chance the minister of justice, and as his MP, I am obliged to protect this constitution and, believe it or not, today I checked with the distinguished professors who are sitting with us, and MPs are within the DOS, I asked them if I was wrong to draw an opinion and they say - no, you're right. I checked with the judge, a member who guarantees the same rights to every citizen of Serbia, and that was done -- and every Serbian MP has been violated, because from this moment on, what you could read in the paper and what I said yesterday: we are introducing a parliamentary monarchy here. According to my beliefs, I'm a monarchist, but I confess my inherited right, and if Alexander Karadjordjevic were sitting here, I would accept that. I don't recognize the new monarchs, and I won't be an MP with 20 to 30 seconds of time if he's good with the head of Parliament. Let's get this straight. The new draft rules of procedure will not touch me at any point. I'll always be able to say what I need to say. I've never heard from anyone before when I shouldn't, and when I thought I might have been wrong, I was talking. But if you remember the previous years of the struggle, in the '90s, for the change, Mr. Michael has not told the whole truth about the duty, or that we are obliged to start changing something here. The citizens ask me, how can you sit in the Serbian Parliament with this sign standing above us. I've already mentioned that to the president. A group of MPs submitted a proposal on February 12th to temporarily, while the Justice Ministry expert group brings a proposal for new signs and symbols of Serbia to remove these symbols, to introduce Serbia's anthem and flag and so on. Somebody's got a problem with that. I tried to put it on the agenda today, but I didn't know the Rules of Procedure very well, so I needed to take it out three days before, so we'll give it up for the next session. You will see that you will be surprised and that many DOS will vote against it. The other thing is democracy. We promised the people in the past elections more democracy. We are aware that by this moment, at least when I go out on the stands or meet people, I must admit that there will be no more democracy in this House. You all remember how our colleagues in the 90s and 94s, and that's where I'm going to mention Mr. Batic again, stood up for the arrested, for those who were unjustly in prison. What do we do now? Take away the opposition's right to obstruction? The opposition, which is doing obstruction here, has the right to do so. In each parliament, the opposition has the right to obstruct. I did for punishment, I did for punishment, but no one mentioned in the new draft Rules of Procedure to punish the vulgar word, the insult, the slander. It is simply proposed to punish people who cannot be punished, who do not receive wages here, and what is crucial and what is to be punished, no one mentions. No one mentions that the punishments of messengers who never attend the meetings of the Assembly are mentioned but those who discuss. That's why I'm going to mention Article 77 one more time. Constitution and Article 93, when it comes to interpretation, you all have the Constitution, read it, read the proposal on interpretation. Again, if I'm wrong, I'm not professional. I've consulted the great experts. Those who participated in writing this proposal, and above all, I think that the Democratic Party of Serbia, has been called all along to respect the Constitution, to protect the laws, but this has proved that even in talks on forming a state they are doing so with that party that is not ruling there, so why not some opposition party participate in the talks, if the Montenegrin party so requests. That's what this draft Rules of Procedure says. There is absolutely no respect for the Constitution when adopting this proposal. I have proposed that the Democratic Party of Serbia gentlemen withdraw this proposal, create a working group and bring a quality proposal of the Rules of Procedure, which will sanction defamations, insults, vulgar words, which will give a shorter period of time to each MP to present something, but will not deny the right to the MPs to represent the environment from which they came, even though they have chosen us from the parties. However, if it hadn't been for the votes of those citizens, we wouldn't have been here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12356	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12357	I would once again suggest that we consider this, to make a quality proposal. This is what we do in our best interest to protect the president of Yugoslavia, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, his president of the parliamentary group, the president of parliament and all their MPs. Because, to be fair, let's think a little bit about whether we have the right to be more indemnityless than those before us. Let me tell you, I've lived my whole life in a state where neither the Constitution nor the laws are respected. I don't mind living in such a state until the end, however, as a People's MP of the Democratic Party, I must say and protest it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12358	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this speaker has been said by the promoter to move quickly and responsibly through change. A year later, he said those words, changes are visible in this country, and what are they, ask the citizens. We are told to make the country European, media preparation is excellent, the parameters against obstruction are discussed. So it's insinuating to the citizens that this is a good deed, preventing obstruction. The obstruction is called the busy and responsible work of MPs, who want citizens to fulfil their obligation, to make the laws more similar and appropriate for the use of and better life of citizens by changing the proposed laws and certain members. It's only about punishment. It's said in the headlines - on the fines of 500 amendments, and you don't say... I would ask the MPs to pay attention, Mr. Chairman, and that instead of the CIA, they have the rules of bonton on them. [[jamour]] As for the proposed amendments, I would like to remind Members of the 1994 Parliament when the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was voted in November 1994. The rules of procedure were done by representatives of all the parliamentary parties present at the time. There is a stenogram about what they were saying about the Rules of Procedure, and the SPS MPs will quote it, but the fact is that for that Rules of Procedure, one of the MPs, then the DSS, said that from the National Assembly it is a prison, and the president of the National Skuppity makes the warden of the prison, and that the Rules of Procedure allowed MPs to report twice in 10 minutes for a word, that the president of the parliamentary group has the right three times 10 minutes to answer the word. The Rules of Procedure allowed all MPs to submit amendments to all members and the Rules of Procedure allowed each MP to discuss the amendment of any colleague. E, for the Rules of Procedure, which was made in 1994, means at the time of the previous ten-year dictatorial period, it was said to be such that it is a prison of the Assembly. You, dear colleagues from DOS, coming to power, first in an extraordinary session, in February, and now with an emergency procedure in October, you are just hitting the Rules of Procedure, and you are bringing to an extraordinary meeting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where you are slowly turning the word democracy into a dictatorship, where you prohibit MPs from discussing the amendments of your colleagues and where you are entering a series of restrictions. Unfortunately, we are reaching today's draft rules of procedure, and indeed, there are no MPs here from the opposition, and I believe from a position that will not be silent on the word that democracy becomes a dictatorship, because here they are not in the first order of punishment. Write punishments for verbal delinquency, insulting fellow MPs, so someone will understand. Here is the first plan to restrict the rights of Serbian citizens in this parliament to speak, because Serbian citizens chose their MPs, not parliamentary groups. Serbian citizens expect their MPs, their representatives in this parliament, to speak for them. The right to speak here is limited because it is given to parliamentary groups for 30 minutes. I'll tell you right now, we can caricature, we'll make 11 parliamentary groups, and we'll be entitled not to 30, but to 330 minutes. So, you did yourself a bear favor, limiting the right of the MPs in your proposal, you told yourself everything. Therefore, this draft Rules of Procedure, which you have done, made it not to improve in the European sense the work of the parliamentary groups and this Parliament, you have done it to stifle the opposition and to give the President of the Assembly the right to assess everything, absolutely, even if someone is standing right or wrong. Don't do that, pull this Rules of Procedure, you'll do a good deed to democracy, the first words on behalf of your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12360	Mr. Pelevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12361	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I believe that this amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly did not come at the best of times, and I think this whole debate, which is likely to take a long time, is not too interesting for the citizens of Serbia, because it does not touch those problems that are now burdening them. I'm afraid it would be better if, after an emergency procedure today, we had discussed elections in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia's south and Serbia-Montenegro's relations, which have come to an impasse, electricity collection, gas collection and the fall of Serbian citizens' standards. Few Serbian citizens are interested in what we will bring in the next few days, or for a few weeks, God forbid, regarding this Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, however, is an internal matter about the work of the Assembly. I also allow the fact that the adoption of the Rules of Procedure may in some way improve the work of this Parliament and that it will become more effective, but what have we got if, by adopting this decision on amendments and amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we violate the Constitution, what have we got if another act taken by this assembly is counter-constitutional? I'm going to try to explain that in an argument in my discussion. In Article 5. The motion for a decision states that the time laid down in Article 1 is allocated to the parliamentary groups, so that each parliamentary group gets 30 minutes. Whether this violates the constitutional right of the MP, who represents the citizens who elected him, to be indeed a National MP and to present his opinion as speaker of the National Assembly. I am sure it violates the constitutional right of every MP. Article 8 is also also proposed, it says, "Only the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, can speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." Does this mean that all other MPs are deprived of the right to detect irregularities in the work of the Assembly and to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? What happens if at that moment the president or representative of the parliamentary group is not in the O.R.? So, the parliamentary group automatically loses the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's really not right and it's another violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 9 states that the speaker cannot read the written text. Please, I must note that the party president, who suggested this, reads the written text very often, which is really not ugly and is normal in the civilized world. Well, we can't expect a man to be so focused at all times that he speaks out of his head, there has to be a concept, there's got to be something that will support the presentation of every MP or anyone else in this country and I don't see why the DSS Group is proposing this, when the president of the state and president of that party are just practicing reading the text, which, I repeat, is really not ugly and what is normal in the civilized world. I don't see why we would be deprived of this right, as MPs, to read the text? I hardly ever read it, but I think this is precisely what affects the right of all MPs to express their opinion. Furthermore, the punishments are spoken of, which are brought in for the Messengers of the people. It also does not touch me, nor the MPs of the Soviet Party, we do not get frequent warnings, nor will we get hit by this, but this affects directly the Constitution of Serbia, Article 77, where it is said that the MP cannot be called to account and cannot be punished for being held in the Assembly and for voting in the Assembly. Please, the motion for this decision is just violating constitutional law because MPs are being punished. In the Constitution of Serbia, Article 77, it is forbidden. So no MP can be punished for an opinion expressed in the Assembly or for voting in the Assembly. Also, when it comes to the introduction of the Institute of Interpletion, I have to notice that this Institute of Interpletion has existed before. I see no reason to introduce this institution of government control of Serbia or individual ministers in the Serbian government. We, as MPs of the Serb Unity Party Group, submitted a request this May to examine the responsibility of Mr. Dragan Veselinov's agriculture minister and to replace him from his post as Minister of Agriculture in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That was May. We have the right to do so according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, but until today, we have entered the month of October, it is not put on the agenda. What, then, was the introduction of the Institute of Interpletion, which existed before, but was not respected by the competent authorities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? What's the big deadline for the government to declare its interpretation, the request of the Members of Interpellation, that is...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12362	Time, Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12363	Let me exercise my right and extend my exposure for another five minutes. Thank you. Which is why if one problem arises in the Serbian government is discussed if two or three months pass, because the problem will not be current after that time. I do not see the reason for such a great shift in deadlines when the National Assembly will finally take a position on the request of MPs to examine the responsibility, or control of individual ministers, or the entire government? Reading the amendments to this proposal, I have seen that there are many funny amendments, not to say comedian, which will certainly strengthen the opinion of Serbian citizens that this parliament -- which should be dignified and that should really reflect the will of the people of Serbia, that it represents the people in a proper and dignified way -- is becoming more and more and more what no one, I hope, wants -- a circus. I'm afraid we're really going to be sick and tired of all of Serbia's citizens and that, discussing these amendments for a few days, perhaps a few weeks, we're going to miss out and miss out on the most important things that concern the citizens of Serbia. I'm afraid all this is over until the elections in Kosovo and Metohija begin on November 17th. Believe me, with these discussions and putting on the agenda of these points, we will do nothing to make the citizens of Serbia and all of us better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12364	He's got a word, Mr. Zirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I speak as deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. I would like to point out with special satisfaction that the motion for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should regulate the modusa in the rights and duties of the MPs in the Assembly. We hope that the new Rules of Procedure, which we declare, can contribute to the greater efficiency of the National Assembly and its work, especially given the enhanced legislative activity foreseen in this house in the period ahead. I am convinced that if people were to sit in the congregation responsible for the public word, according to the gesture, according to their voters, even the previous rules of procedure could work well. Unfortunately, this time of half a year and something more pointed to certain shortcomings in the earlier business text. For this reason, I hope that this effort to improve the work and efficiency of the National Assembly will result, following the debate that will take place, after the amendment that will be considered and after the good will that is expected, in good rules of procedure. Surely, in public, the greatest interest caused that part of this text relating to fines. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that there are certain irregularities in this home that can only be sanctioned in cash. We Serbs, as humans, are only sensitive in that part if we are followed by a fine. The truth is, the punishment really does not apply to any parliamentary group. It applies only to MPs who are obstructing the normal work of the congregation by their performances behind this speaker. The second newspaper in the proposed text of the Rules of Procedure is the introduction of the Institute of Interpletion. Indeed, in the first multiparty elections, I entered this parliament. The truth is, then the opposition was missing, weak, as it is now. We have a weak opposition. Not one of our initiatives on the introduction of impelation was able to win parliament's support. At this point, indeed, the parliamentary majority itself is offering the opposition this institute. In fact, we show good faith and hope that the Assembly will establish greater control over the executive authority. I'll take this time to the end. By the way, let me remind you, on February 12, 2001, I made a motion for a decision to change state symbols. New Serbia's parliamentary group has signed. He also signed 36 MPs. It is true that all deadlines foreseen by the Rules of Procedure have been breached. But because of our co-operation and goodwill, although we hoped that the state holiday law would solve the issue of state symbols, aware of certain constitutional disturbances, we still hope that the parliamentary majority...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12366	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12367	As representative of the parliamentary group, I have the right to ten minutes. I will demonstrate my good will again, so I will end up hoping that this assembly, that the parliamentary majority will finally, by the end of the year, put the issue of state symbols on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12368	You have the right to two more calls. He has the word Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12369	This is under Rule 96 paragraph 2: if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. The term used here is that today there is a weak opposition in the Assembly, as it has been weak before. I just want to say that it is not measured by the weakness of the number of MPs, but by the human resources, knowledge and the skill to tell the speaker the truth and show that knowledge and improve the legal projects proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The truth is that back then, in 1994, and throughout the past period, the opposition was desperate and humanely weak, but this opposition in the Assembly can be measured against all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12370	Predrag Bajcetic, president of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Democratic Serbia, also reported. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, deputy head of the New Serbia Parliament Club, have injured Article 99(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in his presentation and he said - Serbs are a people who only respond to money. Perhaps you, Mr. Cirkovic, are only responding to money, and we other Serbs are reacting to something else. So, please let the National Assembly plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12372	It'll come out, of course. Here you are, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, come in. I'm closing the vote. For 52, against 91, two were abstentions, no 47, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has estimated that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure in the presentation of Mr Ćirkovic. What's confusing you? Is something confusing you? I guess that's not where we came from, when the total of 192 voted 52, that there was a dilemma about whether the decision was made, not another decadent system. Mr. Bajcetic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12373	A meeting of DOS MPs reached a principle agreement to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The Democratic Serbia Movement has in principle agreed to make these changes, but we also have our objections and we will make these remarks through the amendments. The main thing is that it is necessary in the Assembly to limit the time of debate, and this is not a restrictive measure that does not exist in foreign parliaments. Therefore, something is being done that exists in foreign parliaments as well. The only question is how will we, as MPs and MPs groups, be able to use this restrictive measure, seemingly restrictive? I hope so - well, and I hope that the Assembly will work harder than it has done so far and will be more serious. The basic effort is to make this congregation work, efficient, and serious. What we are opposed to is the introduction of fines for a warning. A warning is a warning, and it is not a punishment. The warning results in the confiscation of words, and that is the penalty and penalty that is meant. Why would she be sanctioned? I think there's been some kind of exaggeration here. I suppose, please, the Rules of Procedure is something that is our mutual agreement on work. We gave him too much importance when we gave him the sixth amendment. Don’t let this congregation deal with itself and the arrangement of relationships, I guess we have other things to do. One of the more serious jobs is that that old Rules of Procedure you've been boasting so much about changes. And that -- from the basis of change, that means that these cosmetic adjustments, which are temporary arrangements, have to make a place for one concept of democracy that's a little different from anything that's written in that Rules of Procedure. First of all, if this is about the concept of a new Rules of Procedure, there is too much emphasis on parliamentary groups, and too little on individual freedom, therefore, and the freedom of each individual MP. Therefore, I ask you to consider this a temporary measure, to lift our amendments a little bit, and to return to more serious business, and to form a group that will deal with the real creation of a Rules of Procedure in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12374	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I would answer but I have headaches). When you get over your headaches, there's no problem. The People's Messenger Jovan Deretic came to the floor, and after him, the MP Stanko Kovacevic. Did you answer the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12375	I'm replicating Mr. Ivkovic. Indeed, I thought the opposition was weak, given its quantity, and if I had thought of the quality, then I would think that any comparison of the quality of the then opposition and today was inappropriate. Indeed, everything goes in favor of the quality of the opposition then. When it comes to Mr. Chack, I really don't know what I can tell him without insulting him. Since he truly believes that he does not belong to those who only by monetary sanctions can be repaired, I give him the discipline of a class elder.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12376	Replica? According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12377	The provisions of the same member have been violated again, Mr. Cirkovic. It's been a long time since I've stopped being small, only you've never become big.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12378	The People's Messenger Jovan Deretic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12379	Dear Mr. President, fellow MPs, today we have before us a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you know that in every democratic country, parliament is the largest institution in the state. We are obliged to have respect for Parliament, as such. The applicants of these proposals certainly did not have that in mind. This breaks the Serbian parliament to something that looks like South America, in some "banana" republic. Gentlemen, there are suggestions here that are worthy of attention and deserve to be discussed, but half of this is restrictive to this extent that if we adopt them, parliamentary democracy in Serbia will stop and this assembly will become a barracks, as DOS has ceased to be one coalition and become a central committee. We've got our backs behind us, and with the introduction of this Rules of Procedure, we're going back to where we were 30 or more years ago. I ask you not to vote on these defeating proposals that undermine this House. It's enough that the party that suggested this has collapsed completely, as unserious and immature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12380	The People's MP Stanko Kovacevic has the word, and after him, the MP of the people Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12381	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, PDS MPs, elected on the DOS list and as an integral part of the DOS, will advocate the normal behaviour of MPs in this parliament, conditions must be created for this parliament to work normally and effectively. As PDS has always advocated work, order, discipline and responsibility, so will we, as PDS MPs in this House, stand up for the same things. I have no idea why it is necessary to submit this huge number of amendments to such a proposal to amend and supplement our rules of procedure. Because if critics say that the Rules of Procedure are excessively restrictive, then our Rules of Procedure is always as restrictive as it is necessary for certain MPs to be called to their senses, to say only what is necessary for this speaker to be supported for or against the debate on the subject on the agenda. The same large number of amendments are the result of the resistance of the majority of MPs in this assembly, and I am convinced that most of the citizens of this country who voted for us, that this speaker and thisparliament represent the dignity of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, not that they are the place where individuals will be placed, and most unfortunately, in the worst possible version of behaviour. It seems to me that these proposals can resist those who are going to get their feet under the ground for the behavior that they have done so far, and that is why they are so fiercely resisted. A huge number of MPs, who work for both this speaker and this House, perform in a manner worthy of MPs, will not be against such restrictive measures at all. The only thing I would advocate is that some of the measures provided for by this Businessman should not be fined, but at least at a certain stage of behavior, which is why the measure should be imposed. When it comes to monetary measures and exclusion measures, then, indeed, the proposal should have made it much clearer to define why and at what point such measures can be expressed. Then surely there would be much less resistance to such proposals. I was just trying to define my amendments under what conditions the exclusion measures, the second and third reminders, and what should follow. I also suggested that the measure of notice and the measure of distance from the session can be given to both the Minister and the Representative of the Government, if it behaves in the same way as certain MPs who can be told such a measure. Because why would it allow a minister or a representative of the government to behave the same way as some MPs who are moving away from the session without ministers or representatives of the government being far away from the session? That should be accepted. We have had opportunities in the work so far to hear and quite a number of unspeakable words and evaluations from this pay phone, both by ministers and by government representatives. That is why I would like to put in the same position responsibility for the behaviour of this speaker, and MPs, and ministers and representatives of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12382	The People's Messenger Stevo Dragisic has the word, and after him, the MP of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12383	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth time the National Assembly has changed its Rules of Procedure. Each time the provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been increasingly restrictive, as far as the rights of MPs in this assembly are concerned. The most liberal was the first Rules of Procedure, which was in force until 1994, which allowed unlimited time to be given to MPs, unlimited possibility of proposing amendments, and many of the restrictions known to the rules of procedure today, and this proposal, did not exist in the rules of procedure. After four amendments to the MPs, it is, above all, impossible to fully facilitate exposure by limiting them to 30 minutes as a parliamentary group. Then, to a large extent, their rights to propose amendments are excluded. On the other hand, as one, I can freely say nonsense, and MPs are forbidden to read their own speech. It should be said that all these changes, which reduced parliamentary rights, were motivated by some reasons. And this attempt to reduce parliamentary rights has its own motives. So now we're talking about the material source of this proposal. The material source is what its proposings have just announced, in future proposals for acts that this congregation needs to consider. Among other things, a proposal for a new constitution that this congregation should adopt. In public, new solutions are often talked about. The new constitution's solutions are based on solutions brought by an independent group of experts and published by the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights. The group member is the wife of President Vojislav Kostunica, Zorica Radovic. The draft constitution envisions the destruction of Serbia's social organisation, the federalisation of Serbia, by far worse principles than it was under the 1974 Constitution. (President: But today it is not on the agenda, but the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. ) I am talking about the material source of this proposal. (President: Please do not leave the agenda theme. You can't influence the argument with which I'm going to defend my thesis. Now I'm making an argument, and you're obliged to listen. (President: But I am also obliged to give a warning when you do not respect the Rules of Procedure, so that is what I do. You have to leave your anxiety at the door. Perhaps today the black cat Vojislav Kostunica frightened your white mice, which makes you nervous. Leave your anxiety outside the door and let the MPs talk about the argument they want to defend their views with. Now you've taken one minute away from me. That's got to make up for it. So, the new proposal for the Constitution foresees the formation of six so-called "six". Autonomous provinces: Belgrade, Vojvodina, Southeast Serbia, southwestern Serbia, Shumadija and Podunavlje, both Kosovo and Metohija. Those six so-called. Autonomous provinces are, in fact, special states, republics. By the powers vested in them in this constitution, they have legislative authority. So they're self-administering laws from their jurisdiction. (President: Mr. Dragosic, I give you a second warning. Please stick to the topic that's on the agenda. ) When it comes to Slobodan Milosevic and Mirjana Markovic, it was a battle against dictatorship, and when it comes to the new married couple Ceausescu, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Well, he can't. It's the same for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12384	Mr. Darling, I take your word. Please leave the pay phone. I'm taking a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to continue the session. I'm just saying, we can put the work back on track. I ask Mr Dragisic's MP to leave the pay phone. Mr. Dragisic, I have taken your word and I ask you to leave the pay phone, otherwise I will be forced to propose to the National Assembly to bring a measure of distance from the session. I suggest that the National Assembly bring a measure of distance from Mr. Steve Dragisic's session. (Tomislav Nikolic: I ask that the quorum be established. ) The quorum is established. Okay, we'll determine the quorum. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm asking the service to count those present in the O.R. No need, I'm guessing we have a quorum. The system's been repaired. Here you are, gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament. Identify yourself where you are, inside or outside. I understand we already have 157 MPs in the O.R. I suggest that the National Assembly declare the proposed measure of distance from the session of Mr. National MP Steve Dragisic. Please plead. For 116, against 43, abstention three, did not vote 9, a total of 171. I ask Mr Dragisic to respect the decision of the National Assembly. Mr. Dragisic, something is coming to you from the MPs of your group, they are driving you. I'm giving a five-minute break, ten minutes, how long it takes for the security service to do a job that he didn't want to do alone, Mr Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12387	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment promoter of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly obviously didn't hurt her head very much. It is to be compared on 5 October 2000 and 2 October 2001. If on October 5th, you brought down parliamentaryism in Serbia by burning down the federal parliament building You just laugh... [[elevator in the O.R.]] Today this is the same procedure only in another way, since the leverages of the authorities are in your hands and the levers that the congregation majority gives you. We have heard the explanation of the motion for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He dared to say that the congregation was a mirror of debauchery. Neither he nor his president of the National Assembly blinked. He dared to say the assembly was a circus. He dared to say the Assembly is holding back the reforms. Yesterday, I read in the paper a statement by Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic that Vojislav Kostunica is holding back reforms. I am now interested in how one who is holding back reforms in Serbia can propose a Rules of Procedure in the Assembly and accuse the opposition of holding back reforms in Serbia. Please tell Zoran Djindjic that Kostunica is not the one who is holding back the reform, but we Serbian radicals are the ones who are holding back the reforms. For both the public and the citizens who are following this session. There is no serious bill that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has delivered to us that has not entered the assembly procedure, which has not already been voted on, except for the labour law we received a few days ago. To accuse the Assembly, which has nothing to discuss, of holding back reform in the Republic of Serbia is cynicism. The cynicism of incompetent authorities. Those authorities that make the third amendments to the Rules of Procedure and explain each change with a sentence: "We are expected to have a major legislative activity, so the Rules of Procedure should be amended." Wait, wait, don't wait for that big legislative activity. For the first time, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides for penalties for MPs. The constitution didn't predict them. The Rules of Procedure provide for measures, but punishments tell the People's MP, neither can the court. Although it is a separate branch of power and is not handled by what anyone about an individual who is in front of a court of mind. You dare threaten the punishments of the Messengers of the people unless they please you. Today's warning to a national MP, by chance to me, was caused only by not being at the will of the president of the National Assembly. I wasn't happy when I went out to read a member of the Rules of Procedure who hurt her. I received a warning as to how we will pass when you or if you adopt this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the agenda. And, to inform you in advance, that I am processing you in advance, fines will not be the measure that will prevent the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party from warning the citizens of Serbia of all the negative effects of those draft laws, decisions, regulations, which, in turn, will be the conclusions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And I warn the assembly majority, although I don't consider it human, but somehow, knowing you, I understand why you don't recognize any of the decisions made by the National Assembly of Serbia at the time you were in opposition. But you're so bold that the only two decisions you've made here have been consensual since you've been in power, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, you're trampling and breaking as if you weren't made at a time when you were in power, but as if you've been brought in a while ago. We've made a decision here not to recognise Hans Hackerup's constitution. And you forced Serbs to register as voters who would go to elections under Hans Hekerup's constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will deserve these fines of yours because you can't wait. I'm not proud of being an opposition MP who won't be punished by this Rules of Procedure or who won't deserve a measure. I'm proud of it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of all the DOS sitting here in the Assembly, that you will give me measures. Whenever a government gave me measures in the National Assembly, the Serbian Radical Party won the elections. Whenever a government feared the influence of the Serbian Radical Party in the National Assembly, it changed and tightened the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This piece of paper, which you pushed the legalists to sign, and you're going to, like, vote for it, but you're not going to show up in public, is a sign that you're terrified of what you've done in the last year. I'm helping you when I say, pull this motion for a decision, and I love that we're going to have a debate on this motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12388	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, such a proposal for a decision has never come before the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the last 10 years. Never has a criminal act like this come before the MPs, not in the federal, not in the republican parliament. I'm saying this not only as someone who's an MP for an opposition political party, but also as a lawyer. I know some people don't understand that language, because they've been saying things since this morning, even some of the heads of Parliament, but what are you going to do, Harold Laski was saying in his own time that freedom is the absence of restrictions. This act, unlike what Pelevic said, is not an internal act. It is a sublegal legal force, but it is a key act in the legislative process, of importance for the legislative process itself, for the procedure, for the way acts are adopted, it is the most important act. It's contitio son of louis non-democracy. You can't do it without such an act, unless it's democratic. I know you don't understand, I know you didn't study school, it's not a problem that you didn't, but it would be good if we weren't taught by people who don't know what that means or what it means. The main rules of the Rules of Procedure, which are supposed to exist, are the public work, equality of the rights and duties of MPs, who brutally violates such a rule of procedure on the work of the National Assembly, i.e. the proposed amendments and additions, because more Members of Parliament are not MPs, but members of parliamentary groups, and do not have equal rights. Further, a democratic and complex legislative process, and you know how much it is being violated, if you do not allow Members of the public to participate in this debate in the same way. The MPs of your Rules of Procedure have no right to participate in the debate. It's something that's incredible and so criminal, it's never been in any of the congregations. Because those who say it exists in parallel-law policy practice lie. It doesn't exist anywhere, it doesn't exist in the French Parliament, it doesn't exist. Let someone come out, so let them show us, quote any of these provisions that you have brought here, and you will see that there is none, especially that no one should read the written text. Who are you going to make a commitment to? The people who read are much smarter than the ones who don't read, and that's what they're getting up to. Sometimes I'll read, sometimes I won't read, but I read what I wrote myself, not what others write to him, as is the case with the president of the federal state, and every time he reads it, he never speaks out of his mind. No such thing shall be forbidden to him, but they shall be forbidden to us. That is why it will be forbidden to the Messengers of the people, lest the opposition be destroyed. By the way, the opposition, the opposite of the opposition is not a position, for those who don't know it, but for the government. The position doesn't mean anything to those who don't know legal-political terms. It wouldn't be bad for them to get over it. Furthermore, here we have heard the tirads and tracts about how someone will behave nicely, how nice they are, and how some others are not nice, how people are not interested in such or such a debate. We were against that agenda, but it's ours to show the people what we have against this act, what we think about it and what it's necessary to change. I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. I don't want to hear it. I have enough of my dignity, and no one, in my opinion, has it anymore, and I don't want to talk about others, although they have it less, in any way. And don't talk about the Assembly being a circus, because the biggest circus is here with those who don't go out for this pay phone almost never, who read newspapers, or eat seeds all day long, who spend their working hours and what they're paid for, spend in a congregation restaurant or here in a buffet, in front of a congregation hall, and they don't need to talk to us about it. They can tell us here about those who are working, who are preparing amendments, those who are preparing legal projects, projects of some other general legal acts, which should be brought here, those who criticise the work of authorities, those who are able to fight for the interests of Serbian citizens, and not as a voting machine just raises their hand, and nothing more than that. This Rules of Procedure is a criminal Rules of Procedure. It never occurred to anyone in the world to bring such a disastrous rulebook. This is proof that Serbia is entering the era of totalitarianism, which in the meantime Hannah Arent defined it by definition -- kill. When I used to say that from this pay phone -- you don't need an opposition, you want every law, which should be cramped in the Assembly for 10 days, to bring in five hours, maximum, according to this proposal of the Rules of Procedure. You'd better -- take it, shoot all the opposition MPs, or those you don't like, don't do it like this, and tell us how legal it is, how democratic and how reforming it is. You won't convince any lawyers of that. Show me which lawyer will come out of this room, even from the DOS majority, to go out for a pay phone, to commend this kind of proposal. I'm saying there won't be any.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12390	Mr. Wolfie, I warn you, your time has passed for exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12391	It's not my time that's long gone. You'll see about that soon enough. I would just end up with that if we had -- I really won't mention it, if you weren't worried, and you had to rule me out, the president's wife who writes constitutional solutions; God forbid someone else wrote it, would hang on to the terraces, now it's possible, democratic and legal -- but we, from the cosmological theory of Grigori Gersic, in the legal sense of the theory of George Tasic, come to a sort of theory of ludicrousism of the DSS and the parliamentary majority in this assembly, and I don't mean the theory. and what it does to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12392	The People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavcevic, has the word:
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12393	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, once the Serbs gathered in their congregations and worked, agreed, and had no rules of procedure at all. Later, with the development of parliamentaryism, rules were made to determine how a people's agreement should run, the agreement of the MPs, and to limit those rules to any will, any assembly participant, or the president himself, who was entrusted, who was elected to lead the assembly. I don't know the details, but I am convinced that in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia there were no examples of abuses, outbursts and insults, not of their own reputation, and many of them are not aware of their reputation as roses, but also of this home, a representative home, in front of Serbian citizens who chose them. Please, I have requested data, with a small delay, but data will be disclosed, to make a statistical review since January 2001 -- how many MPs for this speaker spoke, from which parties, to show that this abuse has been done in such a way that, without reason, without real cause, it has been advertised injure of the Rules of Procedure. It is known who was doing this, who had strayed from the agenda, who had not left the pay phone, when the congregation decided that his word had been taken away and that he needed to move away. Also, I asked for data to show how much money was spent on our work from January to the end of September 2001, to show who charged the daily and travel expenses, travelling every day from a fictitious city to Belgrade and back, etc. It is known who caused this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They know that very well. I don't want to mention them because of the replica. You know very well. (Vojislav Seselj: You are afraid! I'm not afraid, but I won't. I'm not gonna give you that chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12394	Please, don't get a MP. I remind you, Mr. Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12395	They can't argue otherwise and stand up, but they just know that that's how they interfere, that they're getting out of the balance of whoever wants to appeal to everyone. I appeal to all -- please, understand, respect those who have chosen you, who have sent you to the National Assembly. If it hadn't been for what happened from January 2001 to today, there wouldn't have been any of these changes. We have failed to make many important decisions, many important laws... (Tomislav Nikolic: Which one? What's the name of those laws? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12396	I ask you to stop throwing and behave, Members of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12397	It has been said that this debate, based on the number of amendments submitted by Serbian Radical Party lawmakers, is likely to take up to 100 hours. A hundred hours? How much does one day of meeting this congregation cost? What's the effect, what's the result? Was that necessary? It's not necessary. Of course, I didn't come for this pay phone with the belief that what I'm saying will change someone's mind and behavior. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia who are watching this, to remember who they sent to this assembly and not to forget it in the first next election. Let them send serious, dignified people, to whom the interests of citizens who are suffering at this hour are at first, who do not live as they could live.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12398	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12399	It's about Article 99, where it's said that no one has the right to insult the MPs, and here we are listening regularly to sermons and inappropriate throws by the president of the National Assembly. That's probably what we'll have to get used to. In all this, they will convince us that it is legal and democratic, that it is the highest civilizational range, but we do not have to listen to insults from other MPs at the expense of the entire National Assembly, especially remarks concerning the alleged costs of the session of the National Assembly, or the work of the MPs in the National Assembly. I'll remind you one more time: take and read something from Fascism theory, and you'll find out that this argument, which you were just taking out of this pay phone, was not first used, because Adolf Hitler was just making such an argument. That's his argument...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12400	Mr. Wolfie, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. Will you tell me what you're actually talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12401	I'm talking about what you won't understand because you'll never have that knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12402	What member of the Rules of Procedure are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12403	Article 99.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12404	Read me that provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12405	I will read to you, since it is hard for you to do so, "The Messengers of the people are obliged to respect the dignity of the congregation," which is what part of that member reads. This has been a criminal ruin of the dignity of the National Assembly, as it has been, and your day-to-day behavior, but I have no intention of teaching you this, nor do I think I'm transferring anything to you. I don't want to talk to you about any more questions, in the end of the line, or talk to you anymore. This is what I am saying about some other MPs who have insulted the dignity of the National Assembly, and have called for an argument which, mildly speaking, is criminal and to which no one should ever be called in parliament. You can refer to that argument in the executive authorities. In the national representative body, in the National Assembly, no such argument must be drawn. If the Assembly is expensive for us, e, fine, lift the Assembly, burn this assembly, and let the fate of Serbia determine the board of directors or some central committee, however, you will solve all the problems. Do not accuse the MPs and the National Assembly in this way because the session of the congregation is ongoing and because someone has decided to work, not just read the newspaper, not just sit down or go to a congregation restaurant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12406	Are you asking the Assembly to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12407	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12408	There's a word from MP Zoran Nikolic. After him, MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12409	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, since the debate has been decided to last for five minutes, will immediately move on to the point in order to express my relationship with certain provisions of the Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As far as art is concerned. 1st and 2nd, which is proposed to introduce a privatisation committee, I agree with this introduction. There's nothing disputed about that. But I can't say that the right time to introduce that privatisation committee was during the previous amendments to the Rules of Procedure, March of the month. I also cannot remember the debate led by the adoption of the Privatisation Act, where a large number of amendments by opposition MPs are just about establishing parliamentary control over the privatisation process - smoothly rejected, and now, through the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, it is proposed that this committee be formed, which I think is not bad, but it is a little late. As far as art is concerned. 4 and 5, there are really great limits to the existing ones. It seems to me that they are also in deep collegiation with the position of MP under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you that the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia (Article 2(2)) provide that sovereignty in this country belongs to citizens who make it through the MPs and that it is to the provisions of Article 76. The constitution stipulates that MPs represent the citizens of the electoral unit in which they are elected. This means that the MP is an entity of rights and obligations under the Rules of Procedure, not, as proposed by Article 5 here, a parliamentary group, because the time for discussion is given to parliamentary groups, not to MPs. I think the solution given in Article 5. - that the total time for discussion is five hours in principle, and by the parliamentary group 30 minutes, is not consistent with the processes that are now in Parliament. Exactly, the adoption of this Rules of Procedure will surprise, as one of the consequences, the formation of new parliamentary clubs, probably within the DOS, probably outside the DOS. The moment it is formed in the Assembly of more than 10 parliamentary clubs, it is possible that the time for debates is above five hours, so this provision of Article 5 will be in contrast. I remind you that, according to this Rules of Procedure, as well as provisions that we do not now change, five MPs can form a parliamentary group. Theoretically, it is possible, according to this Rules of Procedure, to form 50 parliamentary clubs in the National Assembly. As for Article 8, I don't mind the fact that the President of the Parliamentary Group may speak about the violations of the Rules of Procedure. We haven't used that right too often. But we are against the solution expressed in Article 2. - that the breach of the Rules of Procedure does not consider the decisions of the President to be made on the basis of the discretionary powers provided for in this Rules of Procedure. The decisions we have just made on the basis of discretionary powers are the subject of disputes between us MPs. As regards the provisions of Art. On the 10th and 11th, which introduces fines for MPs, people before me also spoke. Provisions of Article 77(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia underlines the absolute irresponsibility of MPs for the spoken word or voting in this assembly. So the MP can't be punished in any way, not in any procedure for what he says and says here. These solutions may be in line with a solution from Western democracies, but they certainly do not comply with the Constitution of the native country, which I think the promoter still had to take care of. As for the provision of Article 13 which is also unacceptable in the conflict with the Constitution, it says that MPs who are members of the same parliamentary group can only submit one amendment to one member of the bill. I'll remind you that Article 80 is Section 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the MP to be an authorised legislator of the law. Please, if anyone can and has the authority to propose an unlimited number of draft laws, then certainly the same entity can also propose a proposal to amend and supplement the bill, which according to our business definition of amendments, as it stands. Provisions related to interpretation, at the shortest - certainly that the opposition is always interested in new types of government control and we welcome the introduction of impelation, but we believe that the way it was introduced makes a little impelation with naked law. First of all, for two reasons. I'm bringing the end, I'm sorry. According to the number of MPs who are supposed to be able to put up with the interpretation, because if under Article 93. The government's confidence constitution can raise 20 MPs, then certainly for interpretation (which is a milder form of government control, slightly stronger than the parliamentary issue) should not go beyond that number 20. I will end this: what bothers me is the position of 2nd new member of 200a, who says that during one session of the National Assembly, a maximum of five interpretations can be submitted. This is an undefined formulation where you don't even know who it is who can handle it, or who it is that will decide which five interpretations will be on the agenda... (President: Please bring the end. ....................................................................................................... in which procedure will be found, makes this good idea, a good institute unusable in practice, and seems to me, a naked right for most MPs, or MP groups. I think it's better to define this more precisely. At the end of the day, I think that the proposer would do a great service to the present majority, and to the current minority and parliamentaryism in Serbia if he withdraws this proposal and, based on all these suggestions that have been given and that will be given, comes up with solutions that will be acceptable to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12410	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12411	Dear People's MPs, it is unfounded the right of the MP to, within the meaning of Articles 127, 153 and 154. The Rules of Procedure shall propose a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. They bond that it's by the Constitution, by Article 82. The Constitution, however, proposes members of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure are contrary to Articles 11, 23, 45, 46, 77 and 93. The Constitution. As a reason for this decision, it is stated that a large number of system laws are to be adopted in the coming period and therefore the effectiveness of the work of this assembly should be encouraged. I mean, if there's work ineffectiveness, that's why the proposed laws that were on the agenda until today. These laws were unarranged, very often, not to say always, unconstitutional. This required the active participation of the MPs in their debate to help change what was not right, to make it better. Since the day the DOS came to power, this is the second change of the 1994 Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure have been called non-democratic. I really can't find the right word to call this Rules of Procedure right now. This is the worst thing, not to use a rougher term, which could have come on the agenda. You shall introduce, or suggest, the Privatisation Committee to Article 1 of the proposed Rules of Procedure. I wonder why it wasn't done in the spring session when it was an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. During the adoption of the Privatisation Act, it was said that the Finance Committee is controlling and implementing the privatisation process. I wonder, if we adopt a privatisation board, I'm basically not against it, then who's going to control the privatisation. I think that by introducing a decision to approve the establishment of a privatisation committee, there is a duality of functions. Article 4 of Article 1th indent 6 provides that, following the opening of the search for each item of the agenda of the National Assembly, the right to speak of the said order and duration shall have a parliamentary group of at least 30 minutes, with the right to speak to one or more MPs from that parliamentary group for this time. I don't think it's appropriate for one of the MPs to have the right to speak for 30 minutes. MP groups that have a large number of MPs - there is no opportunity for all MPs to participate in the debate, and thus the right to speak, the right to speak, and that belongs to the MP, not to the parliamentary group. The voters chose MPs, not MP groups. I think that's how the basic principle of parliamentaryism goes down. You limit Article 5 to five hours in principle on each agenda. I accept that according to certain points of the agenda, five hours is enough time, but I don't know who's going to go out for this pay phone to confirm that the adoption of the budget or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is enough for five hours. That's why I think this needs to be changed, and that doesn't limit the parliamentary group. As the MP will speak, whether or not the speaker will read the written text, at this point it doesn't really matter, is what the MP says. On the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is said that it can speak to the president or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I think it abolishes the right of all MPs to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as the basic act of the National Assembly. The MP represents the citizens of the constituency in which he was elected, and the court on the behaviour of the MP will give the citizens who elected him. His behaviour will be appreciated by these people, and inappropriately, unlawfully and unconstitutionally, as said in Article 77. The Constitution, that the Messenger of the people should be punished. The MP cannot be called to criminal responsibility or to be detained or punished for an opinion expressed or for voting in the National Assembly. I was following this speaker, even when the government was formed, wondering which one of you had doctored on the subject of the "Dictature of Democracy", and I wonder if it was a group of 41 MPs who could have proposed such a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12412	The People's MP Dragan Marsican has the word, and after him is the MP Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we can't agree on what's coming and what's lost in the new rules of procedure. Of course we can't, and we shouldn't agree on a number of other issues. What we have to agree on is that we have to respect reality. The reality, which we do not seem to be able to determine, is that this National Assembly is not yet what needs to be, that the citizens of Serbia who chose us do not show the picture as it should be, that the debates are not being held here as they are being held in democratic parliamentary states, and that this assembly speaker is most often not a place to conflict with different opinions, but rather serves a whole other purpose, as certain parliamentary groups are determining their political strategy. I understand by the proposal of this Rules of Procedure and indeed only as a temporary solution, and let me remind you, in July of this, we formed an assembly committee, a multi-party committee, which was supposed to offer the text of the new Rules of Procedure and which, to this day, did not put a letter on paper, unfortunately. The reality is that we were not able to enter this regular session with a Rules of Procedure that not sufficiently precise, not well enough regulates our mutual relations, our work in parliament and which leaves too much opportunity (though we do not have to convince each other, primarily citizens who are following these transfers see) and large, excessive space to MP groups, who are not, but to something that is self-destruction of parliament, to disrupt the work of this Parliament, to send about it that picture that needs to be different, which should confirm the importance of the institution, the importance of parliament as a place where the opinions will be faced, on which the proposals of the actions will be analysed and on which, in the end of the line, they once called it constructive opposition, contribute to discussion, and in Parliament's work, improving certain legislative projects. Also, the reality is that what cannot be disputed is that MPs have great rights established by the Constitution everywhere in the world, including us, and that some of these fundamental rights are the right to speak, the right to work, to participate in Parliament's work and the right to propose legislative proposals. These are certain rights which cannot be taken away from the Members of the People, nor are these amendments to the Rules of Procedure taken away from the Members of the People. There is only one thing that applies here in the European parliamentary states, which is to narrow the rights of MPs to the level of parliamentary groups. Other countries have also been faced with similar problems, with the question to what extent to enable parliamentary groups to what is called the right to obstruction here, and where there is some border that must not be crossed to ensure the normal and efficient work of parliament. We are faced with a problem, I guess I shouldn't be saying it here, we all know it well, we will react differently, but citizens who are following these transfers, what is happening in parliament, and they know that these problems that are being presented here are necessary to address, among other things, the amendments of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the Rules of Procedure can't eliminate these things, but it can in some way, as a reflection of reality and the need to react to that reality, to put these things in order. It's not true, and that's where we're supposed to be honest with each other, you keep saying, half an hour per MP group. Of course, it's not half an hour per MP's group, unless it's deliberately forgotten that it's about the time there's a proposing, if it's forgotten that there's a special time for the president of the parliamentary groups, for whoever has singled out an opinion on the assembly board. The question is whether all parliamentary groups participate in the work of the board, and that is their right. So, they give up one right themselves, if you want the obligations of the MP, because you can't see it in front of the cameras, so we can't bluff the citizens who chose us. So we don't participate in anything, except what happens here alone, with direct transmissions, and then we complain that our time is short. At least time, because this time established by the Rules of Procedure may be extended, for a parliamentary group it is 70 minutes. If parliamentary groups can hold a debate in principle in 70 minutes to state their own political position on a proposal for an act, then the parliamentary group is not doing well. It's just like that. Don't forget, and point out what's good at all this, which is the introduction of an interpretation, it's the introduction of a monitoring committee for the privatisation process. So you realize that this is a temporary solution. (President: Time. I fully support the idea, and I would insist on that myself, to immediately approach the writing of a comprehensive, new, basedly different Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which will fully define the work of this Parliament. This is like a temporary solution which will, after all, allow for the proper conduct of such a Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12415	The word has the People's MP Vojislav Seselj, as head of the parliamentary group (first call).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12416	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on the matter of Parliament's work, must consider the problem of the relations between the executive and the legislative authorities. Any executive authority, which likes to violate the Constitution and laws, sees basic interference in parliament. We already have an executive power that's tightened in violation of the Constitution. She's passed over a hundred regulations, 80 of which are against the constitution. Everybody knows that. That is what the political parties say, that is, their leaders who are in the ruling majority, and also the political party that came out here with these restrictive proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure. The only dam, especially now that we don't have a Constitutional Court, the self-will of the executive government is parliament. Instead of increasing the importance of parliament, we are constantly swept here by amendments to the Rules of Procedure, in order to deny the rights of the MPs, both formally and essentially. Technically, by harassing MPs and not everyone can speak. Where there are more than 30 MPs, not every MP can speak for a minute. Well, then -- for individual members, only one amendment from the parliamentary group. Now, the ambassador has to hurry and surrender, and the rest cannot, the entire assembly may disagree with his amendment. What now - that the head of the parliamentary group orders him to withdraw the amendment? It can't. Although we Serbian radicals are the most disciplined, neither can we. We had the Privatisation Act, I didn't agree with one good part of the amendment, some were withdrawn, some weren't. So this is where the congregation work is formalized. Every dictatorial regime wants to prevent congregation control. Each one is a basic argument - how much a congregation session costs. If the congregation is so expensive, the best way to end the congregation and then there's no spending money. There have been many problems in the work of this congregation. But the only problems are the congregation's majority, because you're not disciplined and you're not coming to the sessions, you're attacking the opposition, and you're even trying to punish the opposition for not making a quorum. Where in the world does the opposition make the quorum the congregation's majority? Then when you don't have most of the sea, the assembly is disbanded. You can't count on the opposition's votes. What do you count on those votes? Who are you to count on the opposition votes? In that case, instead of taking care of the discipline of your MPs, you are scrambling the opposition. You're scolding her so the opposition can't come to terms. The Serbian Radical Party can say what it has. You have a congregation majority, indiscriminately applying the Rules of Procedure to penalties when it comes to opposition parties, especially the SRS, and you are very selective when it comes to other parliamentary groups. Never again has a member of the ruling party, this DOS coalition. He's never been punished. None of them have yet been expelled from the congregation. How many times has the President of the Assembly violated the Rules of Procedure? Now we're going to give you this black on white in a motion for the shift of Dragan Marsicanin, president of the National Assembly. In a day or two, you'll get it. We're thoroughly preparing these materials. How many times has he threatened the rights of MPs here? Nobody's worried about that. You're able to vote that he's right when he says there are MPs here who don't have a headache they wouldn't even know they have a head. I am happy and happy that you voted today, because that remains for history. It will be remembered through history and who voted for Djindjic's government when the government was elected. Here we have the head of the parliamentary group, the alleged opposition party, who boasts that he has never even received a warning. It immediately associates me with a fragment (I hope you won't get into my word) from part of Ivo Andric (I've read all of it, I can't remember exactly from whom): Omer Pasha Latas came to Bosnia, to the Emperor's serasker and choked the rebellion. He goes from town to town, kills local Muslim feudals, seduces imperial centralism, and in one cassabics she smitten Fata by her Muya and says to him, "Thank God, my Mujo, when you are no man, because if you were a man there now, you would be shot there too. "That's when the head of the parliamentary group of some opposition party comes out... (President: Mr. Seselj, time. Would you like to extend? ) (I'll continue)... and boasts here that the DOS government has never punished him, and he could have voted for Djindjic's government. You think you'll ever forget that? You'll never forget that. It stays written down in history. Everything that is done in this House remains written down for all time, for most of the time, and should be taken into account. For most of the time, it remains that you voted for us today if we didn't have a headache, we wouldn't even know we had a head. It speaks of the nature of your authority. Why do you need constant restrictive measures? The previous regime you called dictatorial, and we've been for many years, but it never occurred to that previous regime to come up with a project like this of the Rules of Procedure, ever. I think the revolution would have occurred in Serbia if someone had thought to blame the opposition in this way, even though we were getting beat up, the police were taking us out, there was a lot going on here. You are able to attack the opposition party because it resorts to obstruction, and to the ugliest expressions to call it, and to filth. Obstruction is a fundamental democratic right. Every serious textbook in the political system is talking about it. The Italian Radicals 10 - 15 years ago, when they wanted to prevent a bill from being passed, they tortured parliament by coming out for a pay phone, reading a phone book, reading the Bible, and what had come to mind. There were no restrictions on the duration of the discussion, as in principle the MP does not limit himself. It is only an extraordinary decision to make when a quick decision is needed, to limit the presentation of the MP, and until they passed out they read the Bible, read the phone book, and so on. That law isn't passed. Take care of some basic democratic traditions. I know you're not interested in them. You promised a lot to the people in last year's elections, you didn't do anything, and the year ended and now it's gone. Now more guilt past power can't be an argument for any of your failures. What is this law that has not arrived on the agenda of the congregation? Is there one? There aren't any. Maybe this September. One was submitted in September. We only got the labour law as MPs, and we could already start discussing the labour law today. Why do you mind when the Serbian Radical Party submits 400-500 amendments? What's the matter with you? Have you forgotten when the Democratic Party submitted 1,000 amendments? You haven't forgotten. Remember. So, we've put up with it a little bit, and we should add. Now there's no more time to look, but we'll look at some next law. This is where you formalize congregation work. It's just your work hours. Five hours under the law, so it was the chicken-springing law, it was some organic, system-based law of extreme importance. Five hours according to the law and by the messenger groups, and the messengers as to who determines whom. Even for lawmakers who are not members of any parliamentary group, you say that they must agree with each other or if they do not agree who answers the word first. So, the race to the chair table, then the first one to turn in. What parliament does it have in the world? That's what you've stoned here in your proposal. As far as these fines are concerned, it all occurred to you, but you didn't think of the second degree of procedure. No one in this country can be punished in prison or in cash without the possibility of a complaint. Not even in companies, not even in private companies, is it possible to impose a sentence without the possibility of appeal to that sentence. Why didn't you see that coming? You would take away the bread, take the wages, because they are insubordination to you, because they do not listen to you, because they speak differently than you would want, and that is always the source of the problem behind this pay phone and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12417	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12418	I'm going for the next five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12419	Third call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12420	There have never been any other problems here, words are taken away, MPs are thrown out only when they say what you don't like. Why was Stevo Dragisic expelled today? What Zorica Radovic, the wife of the president of the Republic, mentioned. Now let's get this straight. Can this be undermined by this provision of the Rules of Procedure that things from the private life of MPs should not be brought forth? It is not Kostunica MP, it is not protected by the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on this matter, but when a wife participates in writing the Constitution, is it a matter of bringing things out of private life, especially when such disastrous provisions are in the Constitution. It has nothing to do with private life. From the damn Jerina, we've always intervened when such things happened, and now they're in the most difficult form. The heavy shape wasn't. Neither did the damned Jerina write the Constitution, nor did Dear Machine write the Constitution, nor did Joan of Broz, that I should not go any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12421	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12422	I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure. I am talking about examples from practice, as you have today, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, expelled one of the people's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. These are examples from practice. I am not talking about the Constitution and the writer of the Constitution Zorica Radovic, but I am talking about why Stevo Dragisic is here, now I have been maimed by a parliamentary group, kicked out of the session. That's what I'm talking about. So don't interrupt me. What exactly do you want? That you have an obedient opposition. You'd actually like opposition MPs to come to the Serbian government and ask permission to speak and get an advance on what they're going to say and learn by heart. Why don't you get someone to listen to them and see if they've got it all figured out by heart? This is where they're supposed to sow sparks every day. The conflict between the government and the opposition should be the worst political conflict in the parliament, because it is a natural democracy. Where there is no conflict there is no democracy. Where everyone is nice, smooth and still boasting, the opposition boasts that they are nice, well-trained, well-dressed, the most expensive suits and always agree, they're always around. If they criticise the authorities, then they criticise some of the allowed measures that the government prescribes, and attack those ugly, dirty and evil from the opposition who exaggerate with their criticisms. The opposition can never exaggerate in the criticism of the government. It's the basic axiom of democracy. There is no exaggeration of the opposition in the criticism of the government. You should know that. What's primitive now? You are unable to deal with Serbian radicals in a scustinian debate. Our argument is unbreakable. Then what's primitive? It's just primitive what you're doing to us. You're cutting our exposure time more and more short for a pay phone. That's the most primitive thing. It's below civilization level. The government is primarily expressing its democracy by its attitude towards the opposition. If you were indeed a democratic authority, you would always give opposition MPs the advantage of listening carefully. If you waste a lot of time, let the sessions last until midnight, let them last all night. Exhaust the opposition. You haven't tried to tire out the opposition once more. You're the first to run away from the session. The opposition's looking for a hearing, and you're running away from the debate. Let the debates be day and night, let them be on Saturdays and Sundays. We've never worked on Saturdays and Sundays. You can't say that the Assembly isn't effective and that it doesn't do its job properly until night sessions, Saturdays and Sundays are scheduled, so when it turns out that they can't even get all the points on the agenda, then you can look for a way out of such a situation, but not in repressive measures, but in expanding democracy. Have you ever wondered why Serbians worked so hard at a pay phone? This is the only way to criticise the government. Since the December elections, none of us have been on state television, on any show, or on "Politics" television. Only in Study B was one when Natasa Jovanovic ran over Zahari Trnavcevic, it is the only hosting of Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12423	Mr. Seselj, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12424	I'll be done right away. We're not on BK TV, we're nowhere. You've blocked the opposition completely by the media, and now you're surprised -- well, where else to cast their voices from, from the breath of life from this hand that's in the National Assembly. Now hit them over the head, shut their mouths. Give us a headache, that's for the best. Make us realize we have a head, by causing us a headache. You've caused a severe headache to the whole country for a long time, so let's give this few MPs from the SRS who are bothering you, give them a headache, so you're going to hit them in the head with a sledgehammer, break their heads, and then you've solved all the problems. By suppressing the opposition, you will never solve any problems. You should have learned something.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12425	Mr. Seselj, I give you my first warning, since despite my warning, you continued to speak for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12426	First, that wasn't the reason for the warning. You needed another warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12427	I warned you once before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12428	I'm just finishing up. You see that I'm finishing up and just making you do something -- come on, a warning, a warning, like someone's pushing you off your back there -- come on, a warning. What's there to remind me when I'm done and logically if you've followed my lead you've noticed that...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12429	But I let you two two and a half minutes longer to finish, and then there was a warning. The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12430	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, at today's session of the regular session for the second time in 10 months since the DOS coalition has been in power, we are discussing on the basis of a proposal from 41 MPs a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Whether it's democratic or dictatorial, the people will evaluate it. In addition to the announced amendments and additions to which MPs will be declared, a privatisation committee is being established, although the Privatisation Act provides for the Committee on Finance to control the privatisation process. However, there are disagreements and disagreements in the DOS coalition, lack of trust in each other. The establishment of a new committee would create a double function and control in the same bodies and bodies. The Privatisation Committee would give opinions and proposals to the People's Curses on privatisation issues -- the proposal puts it. However, none of the DOS coalition should remember and make a proposal to form a committee on Kosovo and Metohija. Here we have heard from representatives that Kosovo is a burning issue and there are many appeals from the SPS to form a committee for Kosovo and Metohija. It was also discussed at the Committee on International Relations, where it was decided to form a subcommittee on Kosovo and Metohija first within the board, and later to turn into an independent committee in line with the needs. To this day, this congregation has not considered this proposal. The assembly must have an opinion on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. The fact is that we have one committee and one co-ordination body, which is the common bodies of the Federal and Republic Government, and in this assembly we didn't have any reports of either body. Unfortunately, the federal committee was formed only to satisfy the form and essence. Nothing's been done so far. At this point, it is not clear in which direction coordination body activities will take place. The functioning of both bodies to solve problems together is currently impossible because we are witnessing daily accusations of both bodies. On this basis, we, the SPS MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, and I am sure that all MPs from the DOS and this parliament will support us, too, because of the situation in which Kosovo and Metohija form a committee for Kosovo and Metohija. As regards amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposals are incomprehensible where the right to speak to the People's Parliament, which has received the trust of a number of citizens to present their opinion on a specific item of the agenda, thereby giving the opinion of the citizens who have elected it and to speak about matters relevant to the state and people, which speaks of how much the promoter cares about the people and the state. Given that individual limited time for discussion is incomprehensible, why it is proposed that the MP cannot have a concept and read his prepared presentation, because by exhibiting in writing, the MP contributes to a better and more efficient work of the Assembly. No positive regulation in the democratic world knows the measures proposed here. Easily moving after the chairman's warnings will force many opposition MPs not to go out for a pay phone, which is actually the goal of the ruling coalition. It is also incomprehensible that MPs of the same parliamentary group can submit one amendment to one member, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution has authorised each MP to propose laws and other regulations on his own. Based on everything that has been heard so far and on how many amendments have been submitted, it is in the proposal's interest to withdraw the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12431	I'll make a note. The session of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia will be held at 1400 hours in the IV-story hall. I think we should set a break by 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12432	Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a National MP, to fill a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Vladan Radovanovic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I would like to announce the mandate of MP Vladan Radovanovici to congratulate him on the election. We're continuing the debate. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12433	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, esteemed journalists, for the second time in this assembly in front of the MPs, have been amended and supplemented by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This speaks enough of the promoters and speaks enough about the intention of the DOS, or, specifically, now, the DSS, to bring in one extremely problematic way the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is in its essence completely contrary to the basic principles of parliamentary democracy and with the basic principles of democracy as such. The team is more surprised that there is a legitimate DSS promoter, who is known as a democratic who has democratic on behalf of him, and who, in a certain sense, in the past, has qualified in a number of Serbian citizens as such. It is also surprising what the head of the parliamentary club said today about this pay phone, with several completely inappropriate sentences offended a number of MPs and insulted, practically, the National Assembly. That's what some of the colleagues here were talking about today. But he's a young head of the Parliament Club, he's got time, he'll get used to it. It's also incomprehensible that someone serious could have submitted such a proposal at all. I will remind you, you have already, by the will of most DOS, taken the right of MPs to agree on amendments submitted by other MPs. These changes also made it impossible for MPs to respond with a replica, which in a sense favours whoever lasts after this speaker to replicate. It's completely out of the context of what you promised and what you intended to do, even if that's what you said, what you suggested here today. We have collected stenograms of what your representatives said seven years ago after this pay phone, some of our colleagues will quote and you will have the opportunity to see that you are doing worse today than what you once challenged others. That's not good. It is impossible for a National MP to be aware of a participant at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is not good for the MP to be, in practice, a parliamentary club, and not for him to be himself, according to the Constitution, and for being bound by his constituents and Serbian citizens. The MP is, with the government of the Republic of Serbia, with 15 thousand citizens, the only authorised legislator of the law in this parliament. Then no one has the right to dispute with him to be an amendment by any law and by any member of that law. Right there's a principle - who can do more, can do less. You have challenged this right here today and, in a sense, made it immaterial to what is guaranteed by the Constitution and the existing Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. How is it possible for some important documents, such as, say, the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia (already colleagues today talked about the Republic of Serbia's budget and some other important legislative projects), how it is possible that one parliamentary club and the entire Assembly, so all 250 MPs, will only get five hours to declare it, with everything that is important to say for each individual region, for each place where we come from. It is not good, it will make it impossible for a number of MPs, who sincerely advocate the environments from which they come, to function as they wish and as their voters expect. How can it be that, when a debate is being held on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, how can you challenge the right of any of us to submit an amendment to the budget, although we come from 187 municipalities of Serbia, how can you defend it and how can you get over it? So how is it possible that you've limited time to five minutes today, and how is it possible that you're doing all this without thinking that we don't know that the whole thing has a completely different background? Why didn't you just say fair - we want the Institute of Interpletion, they want the DSS to go into open war with the DS, and we want to back it up? Don't wrap it in some form, which is already recognized in the first step. A colleague from the Democratic Party of Serbia today saved the honour of the Democratic opposition to Serbia at the very beginning of today's debate, and I congratulate him on that, regardless of which political organisation I am in and which organisation it belongs to. If you adopt a policy like this today, we will find a mechanism to respond resolutely, we will form as many parliamentary clubs as the Rules of Procedure can and we will do what you propose today completely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12434	Exactly, Mr. Baralic, I am young enough, but I am old enough to be able to testify about your manner and known democratic methods, in the form of water cannons, tear gas, beating students. I can testify on what democracy you've advocated and what parliament you've left us in the amanet. I can also testify that, when there was a TV broadcast, the only MPs who were members of the opposition in this House, Mr Risticevic, would testify on this point, nonstoply convincing them to take their word. You've shut down direct TV transmissions. We didn't get a chance to say a word through some state or other public voice. We can testify on these widely-known democratic methods that you have served. I wish you'd never come back to Serbia again! None of your children witnessed your and similar democratic methods! That should be the past in Serbia. You know that, because you are the past to this Serbia. There is finally order in Serbia to be known. And in this House, we need to know, there must be order. This is the Rules of Procedure that we'll be acting on if one day we're an opposition. Otherwise, this is the rules of procedure favoring the opposition, which gives greater rights to the opposition. That's the good side of the Rules of Procedure. Gentlemen of the opposition, in any case, you have the right to make your remarks. In this proposal, DOS simply channeled some of the MPs' rights to MPs' groups. We believe that the people should recognize the person responsible for what they do in the congregation and that according to the proportional system we have, we define how the parties behave. We can talk about the future, but we can't talk about what your democratic methods are.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12435	There's a word Mr. Rajko Baralić - according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12436	Of course, Article 99(2). Thanks for the applause. [[Applause in hall-prim. stenograph.]] Mr. Michael, speaking for this speaker...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12437	Mr. Baralic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12438	I said Article 99(2). Let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12439	All right, but then stop talking to a colleague of Michael's.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12440	Then I'm talking to you. You are the vice president of the Democratic Party of Serbia. That's even better. You said never to return to Serbia again. We're in Serbia, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12441	Mr. Baralic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12442	Thank you. We are in Serbia and we will stay in Serbia. Unlike you, if you achieve this shameful Serbia of six regions, where you live, Mr. Mihajlov, there will be no more Serbia. It's just, we're not gonna let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12443	He has the word Mr. Velimir Simonovic, a National MP. After him, MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my many-year parliamentary career, I have first reported to discuss the Rules of Procedure, unless I exempt the case once before when I submitted a proposal for the Institute of Interruption, but then it was not adopted. I didn't think it was necessary for a man of tolerance, reasonable enough and business-oriented rules of procedure. But one such paper, however, must exist, although in some countries it does not exist. England is a country that doesn't even have a constitution. Probably their parliament doesn't have a Rules of Procedure. They don't need that. A state that exists for hundreds of years without a constitution, and it works well. However, with us everything must be prescribed, in detail, by some laws, regulations, etc. That's why I decided to participate in this debate and write a few amendments. This proposal really undermines some of the rights of us, the MPs of the people. We're in doubt. Is it because some MPs like to get them out of here that we need to compromise, so that we give up some rights, so that we can make Parliament's work more effective? I think so far, though, we can't go. The citizens who sent us here will assess the work of each of us and the parliamentary groups in some elections, when they are, and will vote as they see fit. A member I least like refers to a five-minute cut in discussion. Therefore, I will have to report more frequently because of my amendments. First, let me start with the time to discuss it. I didn't write the amendment, but I think it could have been done differently. Let's say the number of MPs who can discuss one law from the parliamentary group is limited. For example, one law can be spoken of by up to three MPs, another law by three or five, etc. But when all MPs speak of one law in principle, we hear a lot of repetitions here. Secondly, it has been suggested that it can advertise the breach of the rules of procedure only as a representative of the parliamentary group. It not only deprives the MP of the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it does not achieve any effect. Instead of 15 MPs coming forward, Seselj and Toma Nikolic will keep coming forward, so it will be the same effect. This way we won't stop them. As for the great controversy of penalties, I would try to understand that the proposed penalties are for an MP who does not come to meetings. If the MP hasn't been to the session ten times in a month, he's been derailed. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't juvenile juvie. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We, us 250, represent the sovereign people here. It can't be done like this. We cannot be punished, warned, excluded, etc. It should be discarded. I have another remark. Members of the same parliamentary group may submit only one amendment to one member of the bill. In particular, the law of the university comes here. I propose an amendment for one member, and Honorable fellow Lilic disagrees, so that the second amendment, though it is a member of my parliamentary group. We can't make it impossible for the MPs. We do not have to agree with the amendments, although we are members of the same parliamentary group. It's simply inexhaustible. As far as impelation is concerned, I've proposed an amendment. There's a lot of 50 MPs. That's 30. I think it's too big a deadline for the government, because we have to wait 30 days for the government to accept that interpretation. Besides, it doesn't mean that we're always asking to vote on the government's trust. It even makes a different sense. Instead of asking several MPs a parliamentary question to the government, let's say from the health sector, they will agree and seek impelation, to discuss health care in Serbia here, in this house. The same applies to education or other areas. That's how the Institute of Interpletion needs to be understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12445	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12446	I suggest that one law cannot be discussed unless a resolute minister or minister has been appointed by the government to represent a resolute minister who, for example, has been prevented from coming. The issue of parliamentary issues is also not well resolved. I'm taking the opportunity to say that so far I've asked four parliamentary questions, two to Mr. Korac and two to the Department of Traffic. I didn't get an answer for a single question. Does this mean that this institution of parliamentary matters no longer exists in this House, if the government is so deaf? Instead of the ministers sitting here and answering our questions, they don't even do it in writing. The other thing is, if some data is needed, it is said that MPs will receive an answer in a few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12447	There is a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic. After that, MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12448	The honourable MPs, the proposal of these Kostunica Democrats and legislators, regarding the Rules of Procedure, should be considered with two aspects. It is one that the rights and obligations of the MPs in this assembly come down to the fact that when they come to the meeting of the Assembly, they also vote to go to the register and collect money for their great work. As for DSS MPs, the rest of the DOS, they've been acting like this before. Those poor people come here, they eat lunch, they drink whatever they drink, they serve as a voting machine, they go to the register, they pick up the money, and they go home. We just had a chance to hear...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12449	Mr. Veljkovic, do your best, even once in nine months you're talking about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12450	I think I'm talking right now, Mr. President, about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12451	No, you don't talk about anything, but go ahead and start talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12452	I'm glad that in these years you've shown real you know you're talking and that cynicism of yours, that irony of yours, is not passing through Serbia. You want me to tell you what they call you in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12453	Don't worry about what's going on and what's not going on in Serbia, but start talking about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12454	I'll say it eventually. But that, in this way, honourable MPs are limited to the right of opposition MPs to criticise government's legislative proposals, it is unprecedented in the history of parliamentaryism. Our people, ladies and gentlemen, chose to engage in legislative activity and attack government proposals to improve them. It is the people's interest that any proposal from the government or the ruling majority is strongly criticised, thus making it more acceptable to the people, better for him. This poor people don't pay us to come here and keep quiet, to vote, to pick up the money and go home. Won't you be ashamed after the adoption of such a Rules of Procedure to go to the cash register and collect your financial contributions, that's all I'm asking you, MPs of the DOS. In the new Rules of Procedure, whether they sit at home or in this House will be completely irrelevant. Why is no provision entered, e.g. to vote by phone or by letter. Mr. Marsicanin and Mr. Ceda Jovanovic say -- these government legal proposals are excellent, let us know, vote by phone or letter. We vote, and whether or not you agree, it doesn't matter what the parliament wants us to do. Now, listen to this, I'm going to quote to you, please pay attention: "According to the new Rules of Procedure, MPs will mostly be able to keep their mouths shut, and only to speak extremely. They will be treated as prisoners, and the president of parliament as prison manager," 17 November 1994, Vladan Batic. Vladan Batic said this in 1994 in this parliament, however, as an opposition, for the adoption of the then Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly, which is among us, if compared to what you impose on us, makes a beacon of freedom of speech for the MPs. So we can figure out that we've got a new warden in prison, and I congratulate you on that choice. So I don't get a warning, I don't mention a name. Or, even better, listen to this, I quote: "The new text of the law, or the new text, is the product of the ruling coalition, made illegal because it has tried to eliminate most MPs from Parliament's work. Everything says that Serbia is returning to one-sided, and this parliament serves as a fig leaf for democracy," Vojislav Kostunica on November 17, 1994. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Vojislav Kostunica, that very democratic and legalist. Today, seven years after what he has said, this man gives orders to his MPs to stifle every debate, every debate in this House. Does this parliament serve as a fig leaf for democracy today? The second aspect of the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure is the fine of the MPs. That, gentlemen, is very problematic. You, in the same plane, absolutely in the same plane, put the speech of the MP in parliament with, for example, Wrong car parking. It is exactly the same, with a traffic policeman doing so on the street, and here in parliament will be the warden of the prison, or the president of the Assembly, according to his subjective assessment. I wonder if you really think that by fine you can... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, Mr. Warden... to prevent us Serbian Radical Party MPs from doing the job that the people chose us for. That's really funny and you're in great error. You know how, you are in great error if you think that by preventing the opposition from speaking in parliament, you will retain the image of the Democrats and maintain popularity. It's too late, the people read you as ignorant, and you from the DSS as ignorant and weak. After all, what people think of this power, we'll see at the SRS rally on October 5th...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12455	Please read a little faster because you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12456	Thank you, Mr. Warden.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12457	Please, Mr. Prisoner. The People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Zivodarka Dacin. Mrs. Jovanovic, please keep your passions down.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12458	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we have today's proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have witnessed the work so far over the past few months, we have witnessed the DOS' election promises. Why is it necessary to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? This does not require much arguments, the opposition's own discussions indicate the reason for these amendments and additions. We are also witnessing that changes for which citizens, for whom Serbia is crying out, are significantly slowed down, that this assembly, our parliament, is unable to work effectively and quickly. On the other hand, all objections to the opposition whose main goal, by the way, is to make the country worse, fall short of all these arguments that they do not have enough time, that, according to the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure, they cannot express their views. Any more serious analysis will indicate that there is sufficient time to express all opinions if these opinions are to be constructively given on each issue and possibly, adopted, or proposed law. The opposition is going over one very important fact, which is that, according to this proposal, the amendments and additions introduce a proposal for interpretation, i.e. introducing the right of interpretation to the MPs; through this institute, it is possible to control both certain ministries and the entire government. It is an institute known in most, or well-developed democracies, that is also introduced into political life, that is, the parliamentary life of Serbia. There are no commendable criticisms about this, and the lack of criticism shows that it is exactly an institute that will allow particularly opposition parties to participate in Serbia's parliamentary life. On the other hand, it has also been pointed out on various sides, when the Privatisation Act was adopted, and that a privatisation committee should also be formed. These changes and additions proposed the establishment of a privatisation committee. There are no more significant objections, nor can this proposal be attacked in any way, essentially and argued. The only attack comes from there, which we, like the DSS MPs, assess as well as most of all MPs, as well as most Serbian citizens, need to establish for the adoption of the laws parliamentary life in Serbia by some principles of parliamentaryity, mutual respect and tolerance, the presentation of essential facts and arguments and to prevent any form of insult, obstruction. The basic criterion of the proposal for these amendments is precisely to allow this parliament, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to adopt important, essential laws, which we promised citizens in last year's elections, for an accelerated period of time. We will succeed if we continue to work in the current way and in the current Rules of Procedure. (Glass from the O.R.: S.H.I.E.L.D.) ) (President: Mr Veljkovic, I give you a second warning. Your primitiveism has exceeded every measure. ) It is necessary and we will suffer all of these, tomorrow's insults, because we will bring the rules of procedure on which we will be able to pass more efficiently and faster laws, and for which we have the mandate of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12459	The word is Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the National Assembly has been injured by Article 28 and Article 99(2). Rules of Procedure, still valid. As time moves away, and here, for nine months now, Parliament has been working with this chairman in one way or another. It is obvious that these afternoon breakes for lunch, drink and everything that goes along with it do not please the president of the National Assembly anymore, because the terms he uses, addressing the MPs who respond from the bench to such an unbulent proposal of the Rules of Procedure, are extremely inappropriate, and not only that, but they do not like the man who is at his age. Therefore, the president of the National Assembly, except by his insolence, shows it more and more each day towards the MPs of the SRS, and also just before when he told his colleagues, who knows why, he only knows, in his head, the second warning, because by who knows which way he has shown himself in a certain way that he is also a cunning man. Remember, 15 days ago, when immunity was seized for two MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 77 was then violated. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Martians was one of the protagonists to take away these MPs' immunity, and on the same day he established himself a lifelong immunity. If he were to commit some serious crime, even the one for which the longest legal penalty was intended, he would simply be released. You'll wonder how? And in his ambassador group, and also in other parliamentary groups, there are experts here, from the area of that branch of medicine. It is enough to take a stenogram from September 17th, where he even says at the National Assembly session that one, the hour of the second personality, is the president of the National Assembly, and then he is the vice president of the DSS. It will be quite enough for Mr. Marsicani to be free of serious crimes. That's why I, as an MP of the SRS, and none of the sprawling radicals, can blame such a man for anything he throws at us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12461	You sang nicely to the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't understand what member was referring to. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: Article 99) Mrs Jovanovic sang an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 99. Are you asking that the National Assembly be declared? (Natasa Jovanovic, from the scene: Would you like an intonation? No, I've had intonation for a long time. You're a bit of a forger, but it's okay. Does the Assembly need to make a statement? (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: No need. ) The word is Mr. Veljkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12462	Mr. President, you've injured Article 101. Rules of Procedure. During today's session, you first gave me a warning in the afternoon. I didn't want to react. Apparently, it was a warning because I was throwing it away. I didn't do it, and especially I didn't do it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12463	Is the National Assembly to be declared? No, I don't. ) The word is Mr Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12464	Here, let me object once - Article 99. I have no custom, because I think that MPs have freedom of expression, as much as their level of culture and the attainment of civilization allows them. But I must protect the MPs of the SRS from the president of the National Assembly of Dragan Marsicanin, who does not choose words, expressions, makeup when addressing the MPs of the SRS. As Ms. Natasa Jovanovic says, it is not at all the subject of your interest, Mr. President, nor do you have the right to imitate the MPs of the SRS. In the last extraordinary session, you also imitated Laza Marjanski. Simply, Mr. Martian, you can't resist, when you seem to be smart, you express it out loud, not thinking that it can leave a lot of consequences. Where would a session of the National Assembly take us if we started to imitate you and get laid and run around here in the O.R., open our eyes by force? What would that look like? Please, I can see that you can't hold back and have a lot of trouble, but I ask you to respect the little dignity that the National Assembly has. Penalty, warn, cast out, do whatever you want, but do it with some measure. You were ruled by socialists before you. Not to point you to Dragan Tomic, who did all of the same, but only with much more than that and with much more tactics. Of course, I was the worst at the time, but I couldn't get mad because it was all done and with smiles without hate, and then you have to react quite differently. You've been caught by hatred, Mr. Martian. Hate is a very bad associate and a very bad advisor. If you want to prove you're better than us, show it the way you run the National Assembly session. Let me advise you -- this isn't the community council where you were president, so after a few months, three or four months, you haven't scheduled a session. This is a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is where the president of the National Assembly can gain a great reputation for the people only if he shows the grains of intelligence and the grains of democracy. You can't show it first, but you can do this second. Let me just tell you one more thing - in case Milan Milutinovic is not in a position of business, in case he resigns, in case you kidnap him and send him to The Hague, you will act as president of the Republic of Serbia. Did you ever think in your life that such a man could be the president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? (President: Time. So please, Mr. Martian, try to hold back somehow and act like we're not in this room, a team before we've had you in this room for a long time, and we don't see you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12465	When you don't see me, I'm surprised you saw all this. Believe me, I'm very supportive, but I really can't get you back in my predecessor's time. That time is over and you have to understand that. The People's Messenger, Živodarka Dacin, has the word, and after that, the Messenger Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12466	Dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I really wish that we could have achieved the more effective work of this House by correcting this Rules of Procedure today. However, the facts stand entirely on the other side. First of all, the basic right is abolished, and I would say the obligation of every MP to speak in this House and to actively participate in the adoption of all the legal acts, including all the draft laws that we have talked about today. I would say that the restrictively reduced possibility of MPs, who are still elected here as individuals, and all these rights are guaranteed by the Constitution, not as a parliamentary group, or at least all those rights are reduced to one certain minimum. I believe this is for the first time in any country's parliamentary life. I'm just wondering why this first autumn regular session put this particular item on the agenda. Is it due to the fact that a restriction is being made in a story that has yet to follow, which is, above all, the adoption of the draft labour law, health insurance, pension law, etc., and how much there is to be said. If you don't believe me, listen to the voice of the people. However, I can accept some changes, but I cannot accept that only those MPs who actively participate in the work of this Parliament are sanctioned. Let's say, that by any chance, the Democratic Party of Serbia has invited me to participate as an external member in the correction of this Rules of Procedure, I would very much like to sign as 42, but under the following conditions: I would firstly introduce a member who would regulate the current state of parliament, when the two-thirds power has DOS, and for all future times, although I doubt that this will ever happen again, that they are obliged to provide 126 MPs at any moment, so that this parliament can work uninterruptedly. Of 176 MPs and the possibility that 50 DOS MPs are missing each working day, and still all laws can be passed, all laws would be saved in time, the efficiency of the work would be increased, as there would simply not be so much advertising of the Rules of Procedures on the existence of quorums and we would not constantly listen to lectures on whether MPs are obliged to identify, how opposition MPs behave etc. Second, respect for working hours. In that sense, I gave one amendment, because, remember, the last time we changed our current rules of procedure in February or March, when all the members of the opposition parties in this parliament were to be working until 17:00 or 18:00 hours, all of you voted just so God forbid that the opposition party's amendment should be respected, that we, Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia, were always there until 19.30, even when it was voted to work until 2am. However, as 50 minutes late today with the start of the session in the afternoon, here are 20 minutes in the afternoon and that is about 70 minutes, where MPs could say 10 or five minutes so much and the work would be absolutely more effective. However, whoever is first and most responsible, I would automatically introduce criminal provisions for non-respect of working time, primarily the President of the Assembly or the one who holds the presidency that day, because it is their obligation to be there five minutes before the session starts and at 10.00 hours for all MPs to be there. I'd like to be much more constructive and efficient. Who doesn't respect his work and his work hours is even less capable of respecting others. I am not just saying this because of all of us 250 MPs who are here, but because of an army of people who are much more securely following the work of this assembly, such as gentlemen journalists, cameramen, people from the installation, the secretaries of our committees and a lot more people. I'd like to introduce a criminal provision for not monitoring the work of this assembly. This isn't a reading room, so let's not read the paper. Let's read the material and follow what the MPs say, not just to be uninformed as a voting machine. Simply, if it were democracy and transparency in this way, we would prove that absolutely all MPs have the same obligation to behave and work in this congregation home. At the very end, I'm almost certain, and that's said, this won't be the last time we discuss the Rules of Procedure. So this is a transitional solution again. We've had one so far, and I'm afraid our sessions don't turn into words about the Rules of Procedure and that the laws and reforms are on hold. Then I wonder who puts such a rulebook on the agenda, why we will do it three or four times and who knows how many more times we will argue, how many people's money will go to these sessions and, please, whether the reform is costing the opposition. I don't think this time it's gonna be like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12467	The People's MP Ljubomir Mucic has the word, and after him, the MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia marks only one item of the agenda and changes to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia. At first, I would like to ask again whether this is the most important and fatal issue for the citizens of Serbia and the state, or whether it is a waste of ash for the previous nine months of government? Clearly, this point has two goals. The first goal is to focus on the National Assembly and its inefficientness on all negative tendencies in this society, as well as on the slow functioning of the authorities and government, as well as the changes you have indicated to the people. Secondly, a cut in time, so that future changes to the legal rules, since new legal projects are not proposed, will not be proposed to the people in this regard as little information as possible. It is good that these changes have admitted your mistakes and only the Democratic Party of Serbia, so that by adopting them you will collectively accept responsibility for all the negative things that have happened in this House in the past nine months. This assessment came from experience and work so far, as explained in this proposal. Who is responsible for all these problems about the draft agenda? We know the President of the Assembly is preparing him, that's Article 76. The Rules of Procedure, and the order of the sitting and the work of the working bodies, shall be taken care of by the President, or by the Chairman, of Article 100. Rules of Procedure. Inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the application of the current Rules of Procedure are the main reasons for inefficiency in the work of the Assembly. Who suffers all these things, but the messengers of the people, above all the opposition, as well as the citizens who chose them. MPs become chips of the voting machine, not interested in material, discussion, citizens who chose them, and this parliament "only serves as a fig leaf for democracy", a long time ago and several times mentioned quote by Mr Vojislav Kostunica since 17 November 1994 when the first rule was adopted. A comparative analysis of the current Rules of Procedure and a new one, which the Democrats have proposed, suggests that the role of MPs is so downgraded, and thus also by the citizens who elected him, and the importance is given to the parliamentary group formed after the verification of the mandate of MPs. Imequate treatment of MPs, such as members of parliamentary groups and those who are not; members of committees who can exclude their opinion and those who are not; the order of registered speakers; the duration of the discussion; the relationship of the positional and opposition MPs; those who read behind the speaker and those who read the newspaper in place, there are no sanctions for them. And these are just some of the examples of democracy that the DSS stands for. The time of exposure, according to the Rules of Procedure, for the president of the parliamentary group has been reduced by twice, physically speaking once, and could have been three times, and the exposure time has been reduced from 30 to 10 minutes. Even worse, the MPs, whose time of exposure has been reduced from 10 minutes to 72 seconds on average by a new, democratic proposal, if both the right and the privilege come true. It is surprising that you have limited the time for discussion, and the time for a pay phone from the place to the pay phone is unlimited. Maybe it's more important how and how long someone's been coming out than what they're saying and how long they've been talking. The highlight of democracy for this Parliament and this parliamentaryism is cynicism in Article 9, which reads - the speaker cannot read the written text, except he can quote a proposal for an act under consideration, i.e. a regulation or another relevant act. Does that mean that the speaker will come out for a pay phone tied to his eyes? Just that you predicted that the speaker must stand on one foot and speak as long as he endures. At least then we wouldn't all sit here and practice standing on one leg. This denied all constitutional freedoms of MPs as citizens of this Serbia. We can't write what we think and just say it. Gentlemen, it would be best for ordinary MPs to become the MPs of this House, such as the Government according to this highest legislative body, to seduce the full order and save huge funds to Minister Djelic. Because of your failure to participate in the government and the transition to opposition in the government, you have suggested the only light point in this Rules of Procedure, the interpretation of the government's work, to justify themselves. Therefore, withdraw this democratic proposal as a proposal to prove that it is and do not forget "it will not lead to a more efficient work of parliament, but of those who lead this country without anyone's knowledge". But the word won't be able to be stopped. This is a quote from Mr Dragan Jocic, the Democratic Party of Serbia on 18 November1994. the year the previous Rules of Procedure was adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12469	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petrovic, and let Zoran Radovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12470	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, puts the Rules of Procedure on the agenda for the 8 months of work of this National Assembly. For this period, no other question has been found on the agenda three times. Isn't it logical, given the situation we're in, to call a session on solving far more important and far-reaching issues? This suggests that the second plan includes areas of economy, the social situation of citizens, Kosovo and others. What about the promised economic and social reforms? In light of the proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, it is said that the work of the National Assembly is more effective to achieve these rules. However, most of the proposed provisions clearly show that the claim is unsustainable. The proposal mainly comes down to shortening and making it impossible for MPs to debate extensively on issues that are on the agenda, so that citizens are deprived to hear different opinions compared to the proposals given, not to hear those who think differently. What's left of parliamentaryism? What's left of freedom of speech? In fact, he wants the opposition quieted down. I am under the impression that this proposed restriction of the debate represents a farce, a farce, a farce, in relation to a real parliamentary debate. While the SPS was in power, it was incomparably more time for lawmakers to participate in the debate. In the case of an SPS parliamentary group of 37 MPs, the current time for participation in the debate under one item of the agenda is reduced from 400 minutes to 43. In the last session of this assembly, Justice Minister Mr Batic quoted a deep but always current thought by Thomas Masarik 100 years ago, where he said the essence of parliamentaryism was the debate, not the vote. What can the Minister of Justice say now on a proposal from the Rules of Procedure? It is not disputed that most people can easily adopt what they want, but isn't it in the citizens' interest to allow debate, and also accept good suggestions and suggestions and if they come from the opposition. The proposal that the amendment may only be submitted to one member by a parliamentary group directly violates Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the said member of the Constitution has been given the right to any MP to propose laws, other regulations and general acts. It is clear from this that no one can prevent an MP from making an individual amendment to a part of the law or other act that is on the agenda. Unfortunately, the motioner does not seem to be concerned with the constitutional provision. As time goes on, it becomes increasingly evident that the National Assembly as the most legislative body of the Republic is being suppressed in another way. The real legislative authority is practically out of parliament. If you look at the situation as a matter of fact, it is as if there is no Republican congregation. Decisions are taken out of public opinion. It's brought by the DOS presidency. The rules of procedure want to strengthen such a situation further and continue to be dominated by the executive authority over the legislative one. He wants to avoid public work and congregation control of the government. He wants to avoid critical analysis and the struggle of opinion, when it wants to prevent different opinions and attitudes, which directly leads to the collapse of democracy. Parliament comes down to the new rules of procedure on the voting machine. The sentiment of a well-known philosopher is forgotten that unity is without the difference of tyranny. This parliament will not work more effectively if it comes down to a voting machine only. It is devastating for the country if MPs are allowed to serve only as a façade of parliamentaryism, that they are silent and only pressing the key to vote. The opposition for inefficient work of the Assembly cannot be criticised because the problem is on the other side. The problem is the government's work. Where are the announced reform laws? Well, it's a public matter, not just for us MPs, clearly there are no such proposals. Let us look at the questions of the last two and a half months on the agenda of this congregation. It certainly wasn't reform laws. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, in addition, seek to deprive citizens of the work of parliament and to learn about the failures in the work of the government and its institutions. Everything seems to be disabled by the control of the government. Given the rest of the media blockade, direct television transmissions from these sessions were the only way for citizens to get acquainted with the opposition's opinion. It's obvious that it scares the government and wants to cover it up. The government knows that a huge number of citizens are watching these sessions. Even though the TV program is broadcast on multiple channels at the same time and citizens can choose other programs, the transmission of these sessions is almost the most visible. The attempt to conceal the truth will not pass. I don't think it's too much to remind myself of a story kids learn in elementary school, and that's the story of Emperor Traian -- nothing on earth can hide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12471	The word comes from MP Zoran Radovanovic, and then from Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12472	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's theme for the story after a legendaryly bad package of tax laws by Minister Djelic, after all those unconstitutional provisions you have made, definitely shows the Serbian public what is what you are interested in and what is what you do. You changed most of the presidents of Serbia's courts the other day, a good part of the honorable people, and set up some whose average was 5.59, or retire for a month. You've shown again what your basic orientation is. Today you are proposing a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which shows that you were not a regular student at your democracy courses held in Segedin. The head of the DSS parliamentary group and the rapporteur of justice is making this decision and our amendment the thesis that when we have suffered for 10 years we can endure for another few hours. The argumentation is too funny to comment on. Before I tell you what I think of this proposal, here's what the MPs of some opposition parties told the positional majority what they think of your proposal. The DHSS MP finds parliament will now be less democratic, more specifically to introduce a parliamentary monarchy. The MP of the DC finds that the proposal endangers the rights of the MPs to speak, because if an MP can propose a law, he cannot propose more than two amendments on your proposal. The ND MP says - the motion for a decision threatens the integrity of MPs, its individuality and the grand collective. So, one part of the MPs of the former DOS, and now the alliance of independent non-classified DOS parties, is trying to alleviate this, uh, freely speaking, ridiculous proposal. However, two other things have been said here today, which I think are very important. First, one of you said it wasn't good to be a warning, then immediately a punishment. Probably because you promised these six billion and a lot of money, so there's no money now. We are moving on to more restrictive methods of filling the Republic of Serbia's budget -- a reminder and an immediate fine, well, it will be accumulated safely for the already empty budget anyway. Secondly, someone said this solution was too far-fetched. You've been changing the Rules of Procedure for the last nine months, and you've suggested some things. Among other things, one MP told this speaker that he would only now make a new Rules of Procedure, which would be much better. Gentlemen, let me remind you, in the other day it will be exactly one year from your "pyroman-bager revolution" when you set fire to some of the institutions in this country. So, you've been in power for a year, and you're changing the Rules of Procedure now, so you can start working. Let's now, as the president of the parliamentary group, the rapporteur, said, discuss the arguments. Instead of providing us with these changes and additions, the proposed task force, the formed working group held only two pseudo-sessions, and this is proposed by the second body of this assembly, although the group had members from all parties. You have obstructed parliamentary life, to remind the citizens of Serbia, in 1997, when you submitted 1350 amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and thus tried to obstruct the work of the then assembly. Now you're ending it. Gentlemen legalists, you have violated the members of the Constitution: 11, 23, 44, 45, 46, 77 and 93 and, since you were probably not informed, to remind you that this is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as it is, this is our Constitution. Therefore, the Serbian Constitution must be respected. And another thing, if you need to do something, bring it, choose the Constitutional Court. Interpreting about the government's work, it's a special story, because by Article 195. The Rules of Procedure of 20 MPs may suggest mistrust to the government. You are suggesting that 50 MPs can initiate impelation; this as an idea can be accepted, that it is not above all the wishes of the promoter to control the work of the government, because you seem to only need the prime minister as cannon food and cannon meat, ever since he's been in office, for him forever you exist. So this is just another attempt, in fact, your interpartial struggle. The citizens of Serbia are following it, and more details will be spoken when Mr Cedomir Jovanovic is there, who I miss and when we talk about these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12473	Mr. Radovanovic, I give you my first warning. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12474	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as a businessman, I expected that we would receive a report at this session on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that we should not be included in the Rules of Procedure, that the government itself would propose to the Assembly that the agenda be the report of the Serbian Government. However, it is obvious that the government report is disastrous, and they do not have to tell citizens what they have done, citizens feel very good about living today. We of the Serbian Unity Party consider that the change in the Rules of Procedure is going to take away all the rights that the MPs have so far had in this assembly. Today, gentlemen, this applies to us from the opposition, tomorrow you will be the opposition, and it will be very difficult for you. As for the proposal to apply 50 MPs for the interpretation, it is a long period of time, 30 days, from the day when 50 MPs apply, and then the Government has an obligation for 15 days to put it on the agenda. I think we're already too late today when it comes to the proposal for the fall set. We know that the autumn set is due to begin in ten days, and that we haven't said anything about agricultural producers in any session, ladies and gentlemen. They are not the same criteria for opposition and position, specifically, multiple times, when it comes to the Soviet Union. We've always been a constructive opposition, for this speaker, no ugly word has been spoken by the MPs of the Soviet Union and by the President of the Soviet Union, Borislav Pelevic. However, I have received three warnings, since this assembly was established and I will tell you what three warnings are - the first warning I received when I responded when the electricity was collected, which the Government did not promise, and when the tuition was introduced from 500 to 4,500 marks. I got a warning because that, they say, is not the point of the agenda. It's never been a part of the agenda before. I received a second warning when I advertised the quorum - Article 93. - and the quorum I advertised because you DOS have an obligation to attend all sessions, because there are 176 of you. Also, in my explanation, I said that a large number of MPs from DOS come by official cars. Travel costs charge and put in your pocket, and on average, up to Nis, 3000 dinar travel expenses. Mr. Jovanovic picks up the line and doesn't say what I was saying, but says what is being broadcast by Palma Plus TV. Then I'm looking for a replica, he says - you have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12475	Mr. Markovic, please don't convince us what happened, but stick to the subject so it won't be a warning again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12476	Let me explain, there's talk of the Rules of Procedure, and you often hold the Rules of Procedure, let me say now, when the subject is. You won't let me talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12477	Well, we're not talking about the application of the old Rules of Procedure, but you already have a draft new Rules of Procedure and we're asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12478	As for punishment and warning, the Soviet Union is not ashamed of these penalties that you gentlemen have introduced to pay, because we have received several warnings so far. In particular, Professor Pelevic asked that the agenda be the point of the Kosovo and Metohija problem, and the problem of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija and the problem of Serbs living in cities around Serbia. That's why, gentlemen, he's been warned. Such warnings and such penalties are always ready to be paid by the Serb Unity Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12479	There's a word from MP Srdja Popovic. The next is MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12480	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the third time this year in this assembly we are discussing ourselves. I'm not happy about it, but in that debate, we have to mention some of the things my predecessors mentioned. I think these are three basic groups of problems that need to be solved by this Rules of Procedure. It's efficiency, abuse and responsibility. As far as efficiency is concerned, there have been a lot of words here about whether the Assembly is effective or not. Statistics, whose copy you can get at the porter, said this year the Assembly held eight extraordinary and three sessions of the spring regular session, 64 working days, 95 acts were passed, of which 30 laws. It is about two years' work of the previous parliament. That is not enough, but it is not a key issue for this congregation. One of the key problems of this congregation is abuse. I don't mean what's standard parliamentary obstruction. The standard parliamentary obstruction, ladies and gentlemen, should be separated from non-culture, dissuasion, as well as the degradation of parliament. I'll tell you what standard parliamentary obstruction is. 2,122 amendments have been submitted this year, over 800 have been reported to the Rules of Procedure, 17 pieces since this morning, over 160 warnings and distance measures, but let's see what they were like. I've got 600 or 450 amendments in front of me, so I'm going to quote some of the most interesting ones. One amendment mentions Draža's cat, the second wife of the president, the third one suggests that MPs wear prison suits, the fourth one suggests that MPs target each other with some books, the fifth one suggests that 100kg of teeth be distributed to the MPs. With all due respect to horses that are noble animals, these are not proposals for the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, 16 times this session has been interrupted due to parliamentary obstruction, due to the need for some to be photographed on television, in newspapers, even in the arms of the security authority. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't a free security gym. This is the National Assembly. That takes us to the third thing. As I said efficiency is one thing, abuse is another, and responsibility is third. The MPs here talk a lot about how they will be denied some rights, what rights they have under the Constitution, how we scold them as opposition, etc. What about responsibility? How do Serbian citizens see this assembly? We're lazy, we're fat, we're irresponsible, we're rioting at sessions, we're cursing. This is what comes out of this pay phone in a direct transmission that, despite frequent announcements, the DOS parliamentary group has not abolished or will abolish it. For this we bear the responsibility of those who keep quiet when you act like one, as well as those who act like one. We think it will come to your head, that you will walk the streets of Belgrade and Novi Sad, that you will hear your fellow citizens speak of you, you will hear that many of them are more disciplined than some of our colleagues in this assembly. That's why I'd support a 103 member who refers to fines for abuse. If you're making a circus in the house, all you do is answer to the house. If you strip naked on the street, you are under the influence of the Law of Public Order and Peace. If you're making a circus in the National Assembly, which is paid out of the budget, the money of the citizens of this country, then we should all answer out of our pockets, so we know because the price of the clibbering is in parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, 73% of the world's environmental disasters are the result of human factors. I would say that 70% of the bad image of this assembly is due to the irresponsibility of some MPs. The basic principle of new environmental policy, everywhere in the world, is that it pays for a polluter. So whoever contaminates this hall, whoever contaminates the media space of Serbia with his unculture should pay it out of his pocket or at least remind us, if it is possible in this debate, those who have learned to make the circus out of the Assembly for years that the time has passed. Happy anniversary of the people's wrath and the people's will that you are so invited to, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12481	He's got the word Alexander Wolficher - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the President's sake, I appeal to Article 99(1). Several very serious insults have been expressed at the expense of the MPs and the National Assembly. Not counting on Mr. Martian, I decided to warn the chairman and tell them what they were capable of doing when they were not warned. This is where the MPs are called pieces. I don't know what kind of pieces they are. Maybe someone sees it that way. Maybe that's how someone feels about them. I don't think my father and mother see me that way. It's not very pleasant, nor good. Anyway, I want to point out something that's been said here all the time. They're talking about some alleged circus. Yeah, I'm okay, the circus can exist, but the circus is that they read the paper just a foot away from me, the circus is that they don't listen and do nothing, that they don't read their material that gets, the circus is that they don't care what people hear...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12483	Mr. Wolf, you're not entitled to a replica, you're entitled to a commercial violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12484	I explain, dear Mrs. Micic, I have the right to do so, to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12485	It means you recognized each other when you mentioned the circus. But it's not the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12486	I want to know how you know what's true, what isn't, because you didn't warn Mr. Popovic who was talking about some circus, you didn't warn him at any point...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12487	But he didn't tell you to make the circus. You've found yourself offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12488	I didn't find myself offended. I'm defending DOS MPs right now, I'm talking about their parliamentary rights. As for the contamination of the media scene in Serbia, since 1989, there has been no such one-mindedness in Serbia, on all private, on all state electronic media, in all newspapers. It was never in Serbia that there were no opposition newspapers, daily or weekly, that there were no opposition TV and opposition radio stations. There was just a lack of argument — the congregation, which I was talking about today, to which Adolf Hitler called himself. Remove the Assembly, so the image of the Assembly will be good. The best image of the Assembly is that everything is voted out, there is no opposition, that we are all unique, as on the central committee, maybe a little bit of thinking, to form what -- to remind you -- what Milosevic asked for in 1989, multi-party pluralism within the Socialist Union of the Working People. Let's do it. We don't need opposition. We don't need a multiparty system. What do we need the Assembly for? There's some crazy people out there, some illiterate. One more thing, don't talk about who's free to walk the streets or not. I am walking the streets of Belgrade and Novi Sad, and every other city, and many of you may consider whether they need less or more than 20 people escorted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12489	Mr. Nikolic, you didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12490	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12491	I don't think it's right that you're not giving me the right to replicate, because that would make it impossible for anyone who caused the replica to come out again, and I have the right to replicated Article 96(2). One of the predecessors was talking about MPs who like to be taken out of the O.R. Until now, it has only happened to Serbian Radical Party MPs. I have the right to, on behalf of the parliamentary group, because the offensive expressions referred to the parliamentary group, I am entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12492	That was half an hour ago, about. If that's what you mean, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12493	You did not warn the predecessor when he insulted even a large population of people in Serbia, when he spoke with disdain about fat people. I don't know who gives you the right to call anyone, based on your physical appearance, based on your speech flaw, based on the size of your ears, based on baldness, as someone who is an unworthy citizen of our country. We couldn't all, please, I didn't come out to tell my story, I went out to answer the story that was heard from this pay phone. That story should be stopped by now. Furthermore, it has been said that the SRS parliamentary group, and apparently the entire Rules of Procedure has been written against us, that it is guilty of obstruction, of the unhappiness of parliament. I won't answer because whoever said all that doesn't deserve an SRS answer at all. You are now all changed personalities, and many of you I knew as MPs of the opposition, and it would not occur to you to represent such a solution while you were in opposition. I ask you all as people, as honest and safe people, I hope that is so, if Hans Hekerup prescribes this Rules of Procedure and applies it to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, will you have any objections or will you not?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12494	Mr. Popovic, replica. I gave him a replica, Mr Popovic. This was a replica of your exposure. On Wolfie?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12495	Mr. Wolf, 16 pieces of business announcement since this morning, you've been past me, now it's 18. As for identifying who, how and when making a circus in this congregation, it's not about physical predisposition, who likes to be taken out of the O.R., be it. But I repeat, parliament stands for the time being, and on TV, you see bad things about parliament and bad thoughts about the cost of being out of the O.R. That was the essence of my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12496	The word has a folk MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12497	I'm surprised and... (speaks from the hall: and offended).... Speaking of his colleague Srdja Popovic, it's his style of exposure, and I won't say any regrets. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully followed the presentation of the president of the DSS MP group, Mr Mihajlov, who spoke about democracy, about the achievements of the new proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, saying that this would be the best of all the Rules of Procedures, where MPs of the opposition political parties would be allowed much more freedom, much more rights, the opportunity to say their opinions in the National Assembly, and then I thought that Mr Dragan Pavlovic of the Democratic Party was not the only one who carried Tito's staff, that perhaps Mr Mihajlov wore that. He remembers some time from the Broz era when this really could, maybe it was a democracy, because then happy were political opponents or dissidents who weren't in prison. Mr. Mihajlov, you are younger than me, so you may not remember, you may have been small when in these benches in the second row, where you are sitting, sitting Mr. Kostunica, Batic, the Petrovic brothers, Jocic, Jovanovic and some other DSS MPs. You were all in one party at the time, and later you were multiplying, dividing, adding, subtracting, and coming into several parliamentary groups. At that time, gentlemen were mentioned, if I remember correctly, Mr Jocic, who is present here, spoke of this Rules of Procedure, which was more incomparably free, allowed much more freedom, much more rights to the MPs, I will not share them in opposition and position, so they said that this is something that makes torture over the MPs, preventing their work and that they need to be changed as soon as possible. Now you, for what you're proposing, say it's an achievement. Now, as a man changes, it's such a small step that when a man from the opposition feels power to change his face, he becomes conservative and suddenly becomes a man who wants to carry out a dictatorship the way he does. This may be due to the wearing of Tito's staff, as Mr Pavlovic of the Democratic Party would say. Gentlemen from the general party, among whom there were many who liked to be generals, but they were never generals, they again advocated to move into discipline. They'd like to train all of us uniforms and command us left, left, but gentlemen and the time of the general is soon passing. They say they have nothing to fear, that this Rules of Procedure is not rigid for those messengers who will listen, who will obey. In 1941, the Germans also spoke in Belgrade -- no one has to fear retribution if he is loyal to the authorities and if he is obedient. Again, Mr. Michael belongs to a political party seeking amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure not to be read in advance written speeches. Mr. Michael just showed us what it looked like, bent down and didn't look at us a couple of times, because it had to be read carefully and to get along nicely with what he got as a task. These amendments of the Rules of Procedure will punish those MPs who regularly attend the meetings of the National Assembly, actively participate in their work, and those MPs who do not come will be rewarded for weeks, months to work here, or MPs who are often drunk and buzzing in the halls of the National Assembly. One gentleman told us, he says, "Although I don't know, but I'll check, I'll be asked to give me statistics on how many MPs were from which MPs spoke about various laws, so we'll figure it out. This gentleman doesn't know that because in the last maybe month or two he hasn't attended sessions, and some say he counted pigs in Serbia to determine potential, though he counted roasted pigs, as one example of how many there are. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, I'm informing you, I hope you all know that on Friday, October 5th, at 15 o'clock in the market of freedom in Novi Sad, there will be a rally of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12498	The People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to a series of technical errors in this proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to draw attention to only some of them, as the proposal is obviously quite unprofessional. You are referring to Article 127, and it should be 128 and a series of errors that we will point to during the debate on amendments. We tried to convince you this morning that Article 154 was injured that this proposal could not have been followed by an emergency procedure, but the DOS majority, of course, voted over that provision by the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this proposal does not contain an explanation, if, for you, the explanation of Article 3 - changes the existing provision on the duration of the National Assembly session, and then it absolutely does not comply with our Rules of Procedure, which clearly states in Rule 129 that it must contain an explanation of all basic legal institutes and individual solutions. So, what was wanted and why certain provisions changed. That is why I believe that the president of the National Assembly had to, in accordance with Article 130. The Rules of Procedure, to ask the Proposer to make a proposal, of course, to emulate the Rules of Procedure, and then, after that, return it to the regular procedure, but not to the urgent procedure. The president of the National Assembly did not, of course, do, because the proposal comes from the DSS parliamentary group, whose vice president he is. As for Article 3, which requires a cut in working hours, I remind you, we've been trading business for the third time in nine months. I will remind you of 1994, when you were in opposition and when you resented the parliamentary majority, which in four years changed the Rules of Procedure three times. You're absolute records by that. First you extend the workday, and then you shorten the working day because you see that it's counterproductive that we do until 7:30, because after five hours you're unable to secure the quorum. In Article 4, you determine in what order and duration participants in the debate can speak, noting that these provisions are so restrictive that it comes to us to stick to that 1994 rules of procedure and even to those of 1991, when we were just learning democracy and parliamentary democracy. Those Rules of Procedures predicted that the MP could speak for 10 minutes, according to the order of the application. You are now limiting the debate by predicting that the entire parliamentary group is available for 30 minutes, with the right to speak to one or more MPs during this time. Are we gonna fight each other who's gonna talk? What do you expect from us? So, you are ousting the term of the MP and introducing the concept of a parliamentary group, which is absolutely the opposite of the Constitution, Article 2, Article 76, and Article 77. Of course, the Constitution means nothing to you. You've broken it a hundred times so far, so why don't you do it now? But let's remind ourselves of what the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia discussed in 1994. At the time, Vladan Batic was also a member of the parliamentary group. After that, he formed another party as an apostate, and today the DSS has a coalition with its apostates, which is the party's problem. This is how Vladan Batic says: "This assembly needs a new, more modern and more contentable Rules of Procedure, a Rules of Procedure that will mean the affirmation of the role of the MP, the affirmation of the People's Parliament in the system of power-sharing, the affirmation of the multiparty system. With these rules of procedure, you limit freedom of speech, in length and in kind. "Be careful, 10 minutes, but there is a limit. "If you allow MPs to speak, 10 minutes are foreseen, you can limit it to a minute, as the majority of the assembly decides. "Here, we had five minutes today. "So if you let him speak for a minute or five minutes, then he'll have to watch what he's saying, to speak in fact, what you want him to say" (that's what he says to the Socialists), "and if not, if the president doesn't like what he's saying, he'll simply take away his word. "Have anything changed since 1994 until this year 2001? I think so, but upstairs. "So, like nowhere else in the world," "the ambassadors will, as a rule, have to keep quiet" (we have to really keep quiet), "and they will have to speak extremely. "(President: Time. ) "Well, when in one state MPs must remain silent, the people will not be allowed to whisper. I know that you would prefer to end the parliamentary debate," Batic said. I would remind you more, only in one sentence, of what Mr. Kostunica said on that occasion: "The picture could be said that what is a constitution in a living state is the rules of procedure in the life of a parliament. "Lords, judging by this Rules of Procedure, we can assume what will be the Constitution that prepares V.D. Wife of President Vojislav Kostunica, Dr Zorica Radovic. But to remind you of another man, Slobodan Jovanovic, who says: "With all the restrictions on MPs to speak, it is unfortunate that parliament turns into a voting machine, and then the quality of the acts brought is at an extremely low level. "If we can't talk about this phone booth, because we can't talk anywhere else in the media, we'll talk about the myths we're organizing. The first one is Friday at 15.00 hours at the Freedom Square in Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12500	This commercial to charge you RTS. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the history of Serbian Parliamentarianism, there have been a lot of controversy about what a Rules of Procedure should look like to determine the way, conditions and possibility of the activities of the national representatives in the National Assembly. These efforts by the people's representatives were different. But it would be really hard, in the time that you've cut us to just five minutes to talk about this radical project, a proposal by the DSS parliamentary group, to remind ourselves of some facts from the nearer and further past. But what's very close to us is the past ten years and the renewal of the multipartial system in our country, the parliamentary democracy and what's been going on in this building of the National Assembly. In fact, DSS MPs, who were once the opposition, and soon will be again, I believe by deciding citizens in the elections, have always advocated extending the rights and freedom of speech of MPs, to raise the degree of parliamentary democracy to the highest level. These pledges have gone to this point that they in their own almost heartwarming speeches, and this from today's time distance seems to have made it seem so far that the time of the MPs' presentation is unlimited, which is the attitude of sincere and true Democrats, including us from the SRS. But what has happened in the last nine months has only been an introduction to what is happening today with such a proposal for the Rules of Procedure. In fact, on February 27th, I will remind you, Cedomir Jovanovic, then, in front of the single parliamentary group DOS-Vojislav Kostunica, came out for this pay phone and said, almost the same thing as the National Assembly President, Mr Marsican, today: that the Rules of Procedure must be arranged in a way that the assembly would work effectively, in order for the packages of your famous reform laws to be passed as quickly as possible and for the people and the state to be better. If we look at what has happened to us under DOS rule, and if this and then were adopted, and even today a restrictive Rules of Procedure, we can see that the so-economic sunfire of our country, the worse the situation on the economic plan, the worse the lives of citizens and the great disappointment of those who have voted for the people's representatives in this assembly, in the number of 176, for the DOS-Vojislav Kostunica list. You are even in that and then restrictive and still valid Rules of Procedure, and this proposal is before us and that we are not talking about, what tomostrics it is, even then you went so far as to give yourself the right, remember, to enter in the Rules of Procedure a provision under which the Administrative Board will be able to determine where the MPs will sit. You went to the point where you made it impossible for the MPs to talk about the amendments of the other MPs. You went so far as to reduce it to the minimum possible amount of time for a serious debate on very important legal projects anyway. However, what was noticeable today, and especially when MPs from the back of the DOS, from the old, newly-explored parliamentary groups, standing in the defense of such a generous proposal of the Rules of Procedure, were calling for some MPs, above all, thinking, and fearing only, in the right sense, the SRS MPs, gave themselves the right to submit numerous amendments, to advertise violations of the Rules of Procedure, to behave in one way or another, which, in their example, is not polite. It is truly sad to hear of the decency of what the democratic rights of the MPs sent here, who, by the Constitution, have guaranteed rights, speak to people without any honor or morals. Because if you had stuck to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you wouldn't be doing those things you're doing right now. We would have a normal government without over 80 anti-constitutional regulations. We would not have had a situation if those who are the greatest protagonists of hatred, aversion to political opponents spoke to us and lectured on what is decent to say from a congregation speaker and what is not. (President: Time. ) It is long known that MPs so-called The democratic opposition to Serbia is using every opportunity to stifle freedom of public words, to stifle any possibility for MPs, particularly the SRS, to express their political stance and to oppose devastating legal projects. Everyone in Serbia knows that. You, Mr. Martian, in your joke, which I didn't like at all, said, "You can have RTS charge us that commercial of your rally," which, I repeat, on Friday 5th of October in Novi Sad, at 15.00 hours in Freedom Square. But you forgot one thing -- that none of your SRS bulldozers of the revolution were on RTS, that we weren't on any state media or one-television and radio station. You are now assessing what kind of percentages the Democrats are, and how long will that take you? I believe not far away, and I believe that those who are today representatives of your parliamentary group, who have skipped a lot of material, and represent a parliamentary group, will soon learn a lot, a people's sentence in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12502	The People's Messenger Stevan Kesejić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is another aspect of how DOS majority wants to rule Serbia. Starting from the centuries-old struggles of the Serbian people, from the Ottoman government, through fascism and communism, today we really need to confront another one-brainer, which is this Dosmanian government that wants to traditionally put Serbs on one side, and those who listen to mentors from the West on the other side. The Dosmanian government has been resolved to stifle freedom of speech and opinions of Serbian citizens through the National Assembly. National MPs, as the sovereign representatives of citizens who sent them to the National Assembly, will also lose the right and freedom of speech both in the National Assembly and in this way I believe that Serbian citizens will have to take matters into their own hands. They will have to take over from the MPs who are not given the word here, so they will search their will and their right on those MPs and on that authority that is taking away their sovereign right. For this reason, I believe that this Rules of Procedure, which is proposed by the non-domestic majority, but by the authority of Zoran Djindjic, who wants to be completely autonomous of the National Assembly, by the legislative authority, so that the authority that is today the most responsible, and not here in the National Assembly, wants to be, in fact, through the Democratic Party of Serbia, to implement not its own ideas, but the author of William Montgomery's law. For these reasons, I believe that the Democratic Party of Serbia is not aware of what it is doing, at least not those MPs present in this parliament, but they want to push through something far-reaching that will be a difficult consequence for the people of Serbia. It is clear from the Rules of Procedure that there is no intention of interpretation at all, which is proposed here, because it is proposed to "only 50", the MPs who can stand impelation, and we know well that DOS has been broken into several smaller parties, and that none, not only the DOS political party, but no opposition party will be able to bear the interpretation, because so many MPs are required to provide no member of parliament. It thus shows that this proposal is completely unserious and that in this way it wants to throw dust in the eyes of the citizens, to God, we want the ministers, or the government, to account for us, and in fact we will not have the opportunity to initiate the impelation, because no parliamentary group is able to provide the necessary majority to launch this process, this institution. Finally, I would say that the citizens' will in the past elections, which was very exact and showed that she wanted to make changes and that the MPs, who played the full trust of the voters today, played out. They have played voter confidence, and for this reason not only have they not been provided with existential and other rights from pre-election promises, but they are now denied the possibility of asking questions through their representatives in the National Assembly and I believe that the citizens will go to the streets for this reason, not self-initiatively and spontaneously, but will go out and organised, as will happen on Friday, October 5th in Novi Sad at 15.00 hours in the Freedom Square.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12504	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we think of DOS authorities will be heard on Friday at 15.00 p.m. in the market of freedom in Novi Sad, and this unserious proposal of yours is not at all appropriate. It's really funny, one of these ridiculous proposals should make a mockery. Today, when thousands of workers are out of work every day, 18% of citizens starve, students do not have the money to pay for apartment and food, let alone the tuition, the old and the sick have no money for medicine, pensions do not meet 30% of the basic needs of citizens, you have remembered to limit the rights of their representatives. You have promised our brothers in Kosovo great help and protection from your Amer brothers. We see only the corpses of our brothers every day and help out of nowhere. Since you came to power, the only thing that's been booming is the crime. Instead of discussing here with the government's representatives that the current is cheap during the heating season, you are advertising electricity and gasoline collection all over your mouth. You laugh, the citizens will laugh when they meet you on the street. With this new Rules of Procedure and his criminal provisions, you've scared me so much I'm going to have some lady throw me a light tonight. I'm really scared. In any case, if you lose power in this country, or the president of Yugoslavia, Mr. Cat's wife makes five or six small Yugoslavias, then I guess one will belong to him. Woe to a people whose president cares only about cats, and the camp manager in formation has problems with white mice, but I treat it with a guarantee. (It takes out a toy in the form of a cat that makes sounds: miau, miau...) ) Gentlemen of the DOS, take my advice and put in the procedure of the law on the protection of the president of the parties, i.e. Memberships because you're getting smaller, like white-headed soups. They live alone. That's how you'll do it very soon. Obstruction stories are the most common nonsense, as well as topics for discussion at this session. Pull this stupid proposal out of the procedure. The MPs will withdraw the amendments, so that we can all commit ourselves together to making the state and creating better conditions for citizens and businesses to survive this difficult period. If someone was to pet cats could become president of Yugoslavia, what would the presidents of new, small Yugoslavia and statesmen be like - I can only imagine. Maybe one of the conditions will be to keep seeing white mice. Does anyone in this room think they should...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12506	Mr. Janjic, please don't exaggerate. You represent the shame and shame of this House, Mr. Janjic, for God's sake...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12507	.... The court will bring citizens to the election, and you, sir, after visiting the bar in the afternoon, you don't know what you're talking about. Does anyone in this hall think that the president of the Montenegrin tobacco and oil mafia and the prime minister of the Serbian tobacco and oil mafia should decide on Serbia and Montenegro?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12508	Mr. Janjic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12509	To tear up our country, those two men? Whether the DOS presidency should decide tonight on the fate of Serbs in Kosovo, whether it will go to elections or whether we are here in the Assembly. I guess this is the state's supreme organ. It'll look like a bunch of NATO mercenaries tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12510	Replica - Mr. Michael. I am aware that I am violating the Rules of Procedure at this point, I must really say that such speeches and performances, such as Mr Janjic, are a disgrace to this House. You won't be able to destroy this institution, Mr. Janjic. Believe me, you're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12511	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, probably none of you feel comfortable after one of these speeches from our distinguished fellow MPs. And, laming on the problems Serbia is facing at the moment is something they should have thought about much earlier. Where they were, unfortunately, the citizens of our country, or the citizens of Serbian nationality, are gone. The care they took about the state we see how they led. And, simply, those who call for no discussion about the Rules of Procedure, and act the way they behave, give us the right to discuss it. If there were more brains, there'd be more responsibility. Let's talk once in this House about responsibility. What has this government been doing in recent years? We've got power. The citizens voted for it. With changes in January of this year, parliament has been established. We're going to do a lot of things. You were ten years old, and some would say 50 years to solve your problems. You haven't solved them. Let us work. The way you're experiencing parliament is something that I think is embarrassing and mentioned here, and I want to take this opportunity and apologize to the actors, because they say we shouldn't mention the theater when we talk about the Assembly, because they say it's an insult to the theater. I apologize to them this time. I expect someone else to call me from the circus and say I should apologize to them too, because what some make of the Assembly is neither like the circus nor the theater, but what they do... Some cafes besides some highways, and we must not allow Serbia to be turned into a bar next to the Ibar highway or anything else, because Serbia and Serbian citizens didn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12512	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivkovic, Mr. Shormaz, Mr. Nikolic. Since the second announcement is here, first Mr. Shormaz, and then Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12513	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but you haven't seen, I've called before Mr. Michael. Simply, Mr Janjic, in his speech not only injured Article 99, and we all know it and we do not need to realize it, but the entire Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that is still valid. Mr. Janjic, I was one of the MPs who yesterday, I'm going to say it openly, I'm thinking whether we need this or not to do it now, to change this rules of procedure. After what you've done, I'm 100% convinced that we need to change it, even after two months sitting here with you, and I'm going to say one more thing: I'm going to ask all of your MPs to try a bar in this debate waiting for us to be human, even though you've been working.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12514	I can't have double arches. You've laid down the rules. Follow the rules. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12515	This last sentence to attribute the predecessor's nonsense. There is no man in Serbia who can misbehave, and with this kind of cynicism, talk about Serbian radicals. The enemies of Serbia and the Serb people can, the friends of the NATO Pact and all the villains of the Serb people. [[Laughter]] There is no decent Serb who would talk about Serbian radicals like this, especially no such Serb from Serbia's Krajina or Republika Srpska. But what you're going to do is, some people's metamorphosis is terrible. But, Mr. President of the National Assembly, you are missing the opportunity to show that you are truly the president of the National Assembly. The president of your parliamentary group has offended a huge number of people in the Republic of Serbia here. Why don't you talk about cafes next to the Ibar highway? Well, what does that represent? Have you ever traveled, Mr. Michael, to this country of our Serbia? Are the cafes by the side of the road contagion, naughty. What are cafes by the road -- a place where a man comes to rest, places where tired drivers stop to rest, places where a man and his children stop to rest and drink some juice. What does that have to do with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? That's where the coffee shop guests don't get offered these kind of rules, but they say, "Here, you have all the rights, you pay here, so go to the bar." It is so in the building of the National Assembly, in the session of the National Assembly. As valuable as your choice, Mr. Mihajlov, as a People's MP, is so valuable to my choice, one, the other, the third, the fourth, is so valuable to Mr. Janjic's people's MP. You should have been rooted. But who can reprove you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12516	Are we going to do something about the Rules of Procedure or are we going to...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12517	Who's to reprimand you? Do you see how the president is gnawing behind my back, while this predecessor spoke directly to Mr. Janjic, pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the president kept his mouth shut. And who will reprove you when the president of the National Assembly says that the MP is a disgrace and a disgrace to the National Assembly. What's coming out of you? Where does that hatred come from? Why do you hate Serbian radicals so much? What's this about? Are you politicians? What are you? Coaches, carburetors. They were wonderful people, cursing each other, but they knew when they were in trouble to help each other. And you here are facing a little power, so you think you can throw Serbian radicals whatever you want. Well, that's what the one before you thought. In September of the month, in the campaign, he hit radicals, closing doors with radicals because he was convinced that US mercenaries in Serbia could not come to power. They came, now Serbia is whining and waiting to be taken down by Serbian radicals, and others by no means.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12518	Of course, you're waiting for my answer, because you said I didn't use the measures foreseen by the Rules of Procedure and that part of Serbia was offended by the fact that the cafes were mentioned. You have performed more in the function of the replica, as if, say, Era Ojdanić who has a bar, as far as I know, next to the Ibar highway, but I don't think it's the mention of restaurants, cafes, pubs, bars, etc. I have not said an insult to anyone, and it is your right to ask that this be spoken to by the congregation. He has the word Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12519	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here seem to have problems, so in this way they cry out and get some screams, like from some institutions that are located in Calemegdan. Article 99 has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It has now appeared to me to be better and more plastic than ever, the attitude of the Presidency of the National Assembly, of those who sit behind our backs while we speak from here, because one MP who spoke in an interesting and plastic way only about his political opponents, did nothing ugly, said that the shame and shame were so dead cold, as if he were a god who would determine the fate of all others and that he was saying how who and how he behaves. And then a man came out of his political party who said, "Be a man, even though you're a radical," and I guess that means, if I understood him well, though, given the words of the president of the National Assembly, I count that our IQ will never be like theirs, that there are no people in the radicals, or that I don't know who or don't know what we represent." It's not a problem with us, which may offend us, but don't forget that each of us has a family and, if nothing, you'll create resistance and hatred with them. They'll start in a different way to treat you. I have only one sentence to answer - I may not be a man, I may be, if you will, an elephant, or I don't know what everything, but my wife will never write the Constitution, Serbia, or Yugoslavia, or anything like that, as Zorica Radovic writes the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12520	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12521	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the restrictions provided for by the MPs are an anti-constitutional act, and in no case should this Parliament adopt such an anti-constitutional act, which will deny the rights of the MPs. Depriving the rights of MPs to take part in the debate in principle and in the debate in particular is contrary to all possible regulations of the former Yugoslavia and the present Yugoslavia, and of the current Serbia, the European Parliament and many countries, the Angolan countries and the European continent, and even to say, Asian and African. Due to constant earthquakes, Aleksandar Karadjordjevic committed a coup against the Assembly and the constitution in 1929 and declared dictatorship. The time has come, and it has been repeated since the coming of DOS to power, due to the tense situation and everyday earthquakes in this ruling coalition. In any case, it is obvious that it is the intention to draw attention in the other direction, and to make it impossible for MPs to all, whether they belong to a ruling or opposition party, to participate in parliament's work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 22. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for two stages in the conduct of the procedure. The provision of fines for MPs is contrary to Article 22. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, while opposed to Article 26. The Constitution of the SRJ. Everyone has the right to appeal, everyone has the right to appeal to the court's decision, the state authority, the organisation or any state body, if its rights and interests are at stake. Therefore, this fine, which is foreseen, I do not believe exists in the world and in one country that it is so formalized and so standardized, as it is here. Similarly, the European Parliament does not foresee such penalties. I have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Swiss parliament, which also foresees only a reminder, only reproof, just erasing words from the record, even a distance, if he is given three warnings. I have and have achieved my insight, I have studied the parallel right of European countries and Anglo-Saxon - in the paragraph of the 33rd Rules of Procedure on the work of the German Bundestag, all MPs are obliged to participate in the work of Parliament, not just press the key. Secondly, all the MPs in the Bundestag have the right to speak in principle and to speak in particular and to submit amendments. That right, ladies and gentlemen, is prohibited and disabled, as proposed by this decision to the MPs in the Republic of Serbia, in the Serbian Parliament, if adopted as proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised that I recognize teachers here, I also recognize people who have graduated from law school, I don't know who could verify their diplomas after this adoption, I don't know how they could pass for professors and graduate from law school or doctorate. Do they not see for themselves that it is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, and of Serbia, and of Yugoslavia? There's no such thing as fiction. And on the other hand, let them look at each other from a parallel right, it's not enough to go to the speaker's phone booth, so to say, in parallel law, see, it says that, and this is foreseen. If that is provided for in parallel law, please quote the Rules of Procedure, as I can quote to you three Rules of Procedures which I own, both the European Parliament and the German Bundestag, the Parliament of Switzerland, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Please come out and assure us, then we can discuss it, then we can say that we have brought an act, and you who suggest it to be proud, and I will tell you - I'm sorry, I don't want to offend you, I'm afraid, you'll be ashamed, because you won't increase the legal theory with this, and you won't perfect the rule of law. What's going to happen -- this is about to introduce a dictatorship in parliament, and in no case democracy. We have in parliament countless democratic parties, with a democratic omen, be democratic, so give us something to suggest in the parallel law of France, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, England, India, Pakistan and China, all countries. Ladies and gentlemen, if only the President of the National Assembly would allow me, I would ask you, and I would also inform the public and our employees that the SRS on Friday, at 15 o'clock, will hold a rally in Novi Sad, in Freedom Square, and I call on all citizens of Serbia, who want to come to the rally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12522	Mr. Ivkovic answered the question. I already missed it once before to give him my word. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12523	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've been checking in for the last 20 minutes, at a time when, probably, neither you nor the viewers of this transmission wanted to hear what you had to hear. I have reported that we are talking in peace, because I am convinced that SPS MPs in this assembly of the Republic's parliament have proved by their relationship with parliament and by the expectations of Serbian citizens that they are experiencing parliament. Our task is to make it and let it live only when we are all convinced that this legal project helps citizens of Serbia, to help start the economy, to help raise the standard of citizens. Unfortunately, things have happened in this room that give right to those who talk about obstruction and some other events. However, you must remember, the greatest responsibility for everything that happens in this room lies most. The majority had an obligation to honour the agreement reached in May -- that representatives of all parliamentary parties here have the opportunity to sit at the table and discuss certain modernisation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If it were finally respected, if the proper pressure had been made to do so, if people had been motivated, if they had been done right, we would have here a proposal of a Rules of Procedure behind which most parliamentary parties would have stood, or even perhaps all parliamentary parties, such as in 1994. We have here today, essentially, an attack through the amendment of the Rules of Procedure which, normally, causes a reaction on the other hand. For me, there is no difference between the specific behaviour of this speaker and the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, because it is all the same. Why look for an excuse in some moves that are unique, which are not systematic, which do not appear constantly and why do you go completely restrictively towards the amendments of the Rules of Procedure and make it impossible for MPs in the assembly parliament to do their job? I would like to remind you once again: by adopting in November 1994 the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly, under which MPs had the right to speak twice in ten minutes, the president of the parliamentary group three times in ten minutes, under which each MP could submit an amendment to each member of the legislative project, under which each MP could discuss the amendment of each of his fellow Members, some of the leaders of today's promoters said that it was a dictatorship, that it was the choking of democracy, that it was the blackest thing that could happen to freedoms in the Republic of Serbia. However, by coming to power, the DOS hastened, with the terms "emergency" and "emergency", to change the Rules of Procedure. You have scheduled an extraordinary session and we have brought your majority of the Rules of Procedure, where the right of MPs to speak of the amendment of fellow Members. You've brought some other restrictions. You have now come before us with a story about obstructions and efficiency in the work, with a proposal from the Rules of Procedure that restricts the time of the parliamentary group and forgets MPs, who in fact prevents MPs from speaking for this speaker, which prevents MPs from submitting amendments where they think it is necessary. The MPs were elected on their behalf in this assembly, taking care of their interest, to propose amendments to legal projects or even to reject legislative projects and return to the promoter to fix them, for the sake of a better life in this country, for better work in the country's economy. What did you do? You said, "Quickly and responsibly, we'll take the path of change." Let's go through the changes after a year, with an urgent proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure that is totally restrictive! Are those the changes? Or it's a trace of the changes that in the last year -- the decline in economic production, 35% less exports than last year. I would ask and appeal to all MPs not to justify what they have done and put forward as a proposal far from democracy, which is the total opposite of democracy, which is ultimately dictatorship. I must say, if we're in a position to have 18 DOS leaders decide, and all of you here nominate from the DOS majority, lift the Assembly, lift the Federal Assembly, let 18 run the state. What do we need the Assembly for? We're practically in dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12524	There is a word from MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the failure of DOS rule over the past year, poor bill proposals that have not brought the promised changes to Serbian citizens, have also caused such a bad and criminal proposal on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is the desire of the executive government to put the National Assembly under its control, as it fears reasoned criticism from Serbian Radical Party MPs. The main function of the legislative authority is to control the executive power, to control the work of members of the government and ministers. Should we talk about reducing the rights of MPs, and hence the citizens who chose them? What kind of mind has it come up that MPs in the congregation have no right to speak? Well, where to speak, if not in the Assembly? Increased political tensions can best be tempered in the Assembly. Why is it impossible for MPs to correct the draft laws with their amendments? I guess the amendments are for them to fix the bill's proposals, so the laws can be as good as they can be. Why is the basic function of the MPs being prevented? Can an MP be punished for his opinion and his views with a fine? Is that by the Constitution of this country? Can the MP mention a constitutional writer who shares Serbia in six autonomous provinces? Can the MP say that he who shares Serbia is the acting wife of Vojislav Kostunica, Dr Zorica Radovic? In your understanding of democracy, he can't, and that's why there's a warning. Whenever Dragan Marsican's vanity is threatened, whenever MPs of the Serbian Radical Party prove to him that he is having a bad and trendy session of the National Assembly, with the help of the DOS MPs, he is pushing the majority over the assembly's minority. You don't realize that you're my best indicator of whether I spoke well or not. As soon as I get a warning, I know that speech is good and has touched everyone who is untouchable or at least wants to be untouchable -- Prime Minister, Minister, National Assembly President. It is no wonder the Democratic Party of Serbia proposes such a shameful proposal. It is not by any chance that the proponent is both Dragan Marsican and Vojislav Kostunica. And he agrees with the removal of all rights from the MPs. He's a well-known legalist, but he's a little less informed of everything that's going on in the country. What else can we expect from those who burned down the Federal Assembly building? Your contribution to the development of democracy in Serbia will be remembered by the restrictions on the rights of MPs, according to a shameful proposal for measures announced by the twilight of parliamentaryism in Serbia. I don't understand the performance of my distinguished colleague from Smederev Dragan Shormaz. We have really been in relatively correct relations so far, how much we have been given party differences and political options. I can responsibly say here that we have the access of Sister Dragan Shormaz, who was a member of the Serbian Radical Party in one period. His father, Judge Shormaz, District Court judge in Smederev, told me, in a telephone conversation, so enthusiastic: Mr. Colic (when we were in power, when it was easy to be good with the Serbian Radical Party) and I carry with pride, heroically, in the pocket of my jacket, a picture of Vojislav Seselj. Those are the words of Mr. Shormaz's father. I'll bring his sister's accession here if you suspect, so I can prove to you that a member of Mr. Shormaz's family was a member of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12526	Before you get to his grandparents, please talk about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12527	The names of your parties, which call themselves democratic, are lies and the deception of Serbian citizens, so I call on the citizens to rally the Serbian Radical Party in Novi Sad, in the Freedom Square, starting at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12528	Here, to join the invitation, anyone who wants to watch this and this in the square, go to the SRS on Friday. I'm joining the invitation. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12529	Mr. President, fellow MPs, today we are discussing a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday on the committees and today in the Assembly by the parliamentary majority, we heard various explanations as to why this document should be brought in, with two reasons highlighted in the first plan: this is the need for efficiency of the Assembly and obstruction by the opposition, that is, how to resolve the issue. Today, however, by the MPs of the congregation again, we have heard that none of these two reasons stand. In fact, it was said very clearly and loudly that efficiency is not a key issue of the Assembly, and it was numbered how many laws and other documents the Assembly has decided over the past nine months, that is, by the Assembly. That obstruction of the opposition's work is not a problem, he quite unconsciously confirmed by one of the DOS MPs saying that 2120 amendments have been submitted in the nine months since the opposition. The value of this argument is best confirmed by the Democratic Party in 1997 on the basis of a proposal for a law on local self-government, meaning only on the basis of one draft law, 1,350 amendments were submitted. So that proposal is off, too. The main thing remains, this document should prevent opposition MPs from taking active part in the Assembly and should declare very clearly, very explicitly, very argumentatively, their views on certain issues. In other words, the parliamentary majority and the opposition do not have the same need in the congregation, that is, for the congregation in relation to their position. In fact, the parliamentary majority has a government, the government is making legislative proposals, they are actively taking part in the preparation of these legislative proposals, possibly when the proposal comes to the assembly next to members of the government who have an unlimited right to speak, several MPs of the assembly majority have come forward and an additional explanation. For us, representatives of the opposition, there is a need for us to say in the Assembly for a pay phone what we think about specific proposals, whether they are good or not, why they should be accepted, or why they should not be accepted, and to offer our proposal on how the law should look, or how the problem should be solved. I have mentioned all of this in relation to the content of this document submitted to the Assembly, I would say that it should not be accepted, because it is a single anti-constitutional document and because it seeks to abolish and deny the rights of the Members of the People and because it degrades and devalues and rights of the Members of Parliament and of the People's Parliament. Because the document calls into question the autonomy of the Assembly and practically transforms the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia into an auxiliary body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The document also showed the right face of the proposing, the Democratic Party of Serbia, behind large words of respect for the law, respect for the constitution, respect for the law, legalism, unfortunately, is a very practical and concrete interest that the role of the opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is reduced to a minimum, i.e. in practice, that it does not exist. According to this anti-constitutional document, the DSS has teamed up, or I say, behind the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has been known so far for making anti-constitutional decisions. Why is this document not to be accepted? First of all, because MPs do not have the opportunity to speak, which according to the Constitution, Article 2 and Article 76 should have; because the MP group is favored in relation to the MPs; because the equality of MPs is abolished, only the president of the parliamentary group can object to the Rules of Procedure; because the possibility is abolished, even one member contained in the proposal, which has not been misused in these nine months by any MP in the National Assembly, Article 91, and it is abolished in itself, and it is saying enough; then, by denying the possibility of a MP to choose the way in which he will declare his position; because fines are imposed, which is directly contrary to Article 77. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said that the MP cannot be punished for an opinion expressed in the National Assembly; because MPs do not have the right to submit amendments on a bill or other document, they have the right to submit a bill, but they do not have the right to submit amendments. (President Natasha Micic: Time.) And finally, about the Institute of Interpellation. This institute is practically legally imprecise and inapplicable in practice, and I think this is about a big farce. In this assembly, there is no opposition party that has a parliamentary group with so many members, which means that the assembly majority reserves the right to ask itself a question and to receive relevant answers from its government. So, from what I'm told, I don't think this document should be accepted because it carries out a parliamentary terror of the majority over the minority, then objectively reduces the ability to control the work of parliament, because it prevents the public from working... (President: Mr. Obradovic, seventh minute.) Thank you, I'm done. And because it practically introduces a parliamentary terror of the majority over the minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12530	The word has a People's MP, Toma Busetic, and the next is National MP Borisvoje Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure is an unconstitutional, non-democratic act, and I would still say that it is scandalous and unrecorded in parliamentary practice. Why is that? In order for us to interpret it differently, if there are clearly restrictions on the presentation of MPs here. When it comes to SPS MPs, we will be able to talk about the new rules here by law for about 50 seconds, and the entire parliamentary group for about 30 minutes. Of course, there is a harsh violation of the equality of all MPs. How else to interpret when a new proposal suggests that only the president or representative of the parliamentary group can speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and we know that here in the Assembly is a very common case of violations of the Rules of Procedure, so that this right should not be denied by any other MPs. Or, however, that MPs from the same parliamentary group can only submit one amendment to one member of the bill. On the other hand, we know that MPs have the right to propose laws. I think it's an absolute and great illogicality, and according to this article, the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure. I think it's very incorrect and the proposal in Article 9, where the speaker is said to be unable to read the written text. I think it's so much more unfair that the proposing, the DSS, whose President Vojislav Kostunica also reads a statement of ten rows, e.g. calling on the Serb people to register for the upcoming elections in Kosovo and Metohija. And the other members, members who talk about it, who sanction free expressions of opinion and where rigorous penalties are predicted -- 20% of the salary for the first notice, half the salary for two warnings, and the entire pay for taking away words, or two disfellowshipping salaries, and that clearly tells where this new rules of procedure goes. It is very important to point out, and that is how this new Rules of Procedure proposes. They're proposing DOS leaders, who were saying something completely different by yesterday. For example, when a new Rules of Procedure was adopted in 1994, each MP could speak twice in 10 minutes, each MP could advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, propose amendments. DOS leaders, then leaders of opposition parties, said the text of the new Rules of Procedure would eliminate most MPs from parliament's work. That's just what Vojislav Kostunica said. What we say today - that this new text will eliminate all MPs and that only the presidents of parliamentary groups or several MPs will have the right to be exposed, as agreed by the parliamentary groups. One of the leaders of the opposition, and the current authorities, said the parliamentary majority should not be afraid and there should be no fear of a minority discussion. Why does that change your mind now? (A voice from the O.R.: Who said that? ) Pal Shandor - for a workman who was truly democratic in relation to the present one, not to speak of what is now proposed, with 20 minutes of speech per MP, Vladan Batic said that the secretaries are limited to the freedom of each MP and that they will become prisoners. What happens now? It is clear that at any time and at any time, this Rules of Procedure on Labour suggested that the Security Council would be sitting at the moment in order to reach a resolution on the threat of freedom of the words of the opposition MPs, but we never wanted to do so. (President: Time. On this case, we show that we are much greater Democrats than the current authorities. It is clear that those who are full of the mouth of democracy in this way also prove themselves to be great dictators. I think this proposal should be withdrawn from the procedure. When it comes to this privatisation committee, we can in principle accept the education of this committee, but why now? Apparently, DSS MPs suspect privatisation will be carried out properly. And we suspect, but we voted against that law because we thought the law was devastating and bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12532	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12533	Please, on the basis of Article 80(2), determine whether there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12534	I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12536	fellow Members of the Parliament, right to tell you, I've been known to be a brave man. Today and these days, reading this proposal to change the statutes, I must tell you that I am very afraid. I'm making this public, and you know why. By reading everything he predicts, I'm afraid that in some future term and changes in the statutes, even more recent, except for the ban on speech, other than fines, which is least important, you'll predict where we have to sit, which way we're going, whether we can go from there or on the other side. That democracy that you're selling to us as a fog has really gone too far. Democratic parties, mostly by name, to tell you the truth, there is no "d" in you from democracy. As you behave, I'm sure there is no party in Serbia that will be formed in the future, to behave like this. God forbid you should remain in power for a long time, for you will fear the people, and not just the Messengers. (Borivoj Katic, from the place: "Let Sloba return to you." I said I was scared, but not of you. Calm down. President, stop a gentleman who can't sit still. I don't throw it away. I think that so many rigorous punishments and the intended delays of the work of MPs sent here to speak, send here to point out mistakes, send here to help solve problems and point to the mistakes of the authorities, and not give them the right to do so, then I really don't know what needs to be done and how we should behave to be Democrats. Where fortunately the predecessors were such Democrats as you, you would never enter here and that would be luck for the country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12537	The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević, and then by MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12538	Dear fellow Members, I thought coming to parliament that all moral people were here, and I also thought that when it comes to the president of our current state, including the prime minister, they were moral people. To accept that this is so, but the question is raised, is it possible for a man in 1994 to seek the help of all world and white-world tramps around Belgrade to defend democracy, and today we are denied those rights that had opposition at the time. It would be good if our president of the state and president of the Democratic Party of Serbia had not arrived because of the state's obligations, read what we are offered and indeed told the citizens of Serbia - I am a legalist and I remain legalist and I leave the MPs of the opposition what I stood for in 1994. Then it is possible that the citizens of Serbia believe that. Otherwise, we look like everything that's going on at the game. Defend Montenegro and Serbia in one country, and another attack, eventually DOS and Djukanovic destroy the country. We're denied all rights. I call on those organisations that have attacked, the former dictatorial regime says, to now show their democracy in relation to those who offer us a new democracy. They will show that they are not the mercenaries of Soros, if they suspend along with these institutions all these proposals, so we will know that they are fighting for democracy in this Serbia. Otherwise, they came to seduce a kind of dictatorship. The dictatorships have been known since 1929, which did not end favorably for those who seduce. I hope the citizens of Serbia don't want a dictatorship. Democracy in Serbia is older than we are, older than the so-called Europeans. Civilised countries, which offer us all the rules, all in a row and I think we have enough knowledge. I hope that the MPs we're looking at here, who attacked that rule in 1994, will advocate and have a moral act that now that they've changed their role, it's not the opposition but the position, the authority, that they're voting against a rule like this. That act would show a man's morality, that, in a long time, his basic traits of morality do not change. This Serbia must strive for moral people and must strive for people who do not change sights from every moment until tomorrow, who respect laws, respect norms. I was invited and elected by the citizens. He doesn't have the right to take away my own party while I'm here and he's not a tutor, but she's democratic, so he says, Comrade Garcevic, prepare for your conscience and work towards your conscience. You have the command not to write. It would be good luck for this country if the one you attacked as a dictator today were here, but there's time, there's a future ahead of us. Those who offer dictatorship will come down, and democracy will rule Serbia again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12539	The word has a National MP Slobodan Pavlovic, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12540	I can read in my old book, and I don't have to. Mr. President, I'm going to accept the suggestion not to read, but I'm going to help myself. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we have all seen from calls and materials delivered, a group of 41 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have sent us a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, asking us to consider and adopt it by an urgent procedure. The reasons for making this and such a decision, as explained, are the need to, in order to ensure better and more efficient work of the National Assembly in the coming period, in which it is expected, thank God, increase legislative activity, which is essentially our function, perform certain changes and additions in the current Rules of Procedure. It would be said at first glance, and so I thought, I was naive obviously, if it were nothing strange, nothing is controversial, and when it comes to the motionary, because according to the Statute and the Rules of Procedure, of course, there is such a thing and of course the reasons that are mentioned here. So my expectations were in that sense. My expectations, ladies and gentlemen, came from the fact that the motion for a decision is a party in whose name is a democratic, yet Serbian or Serbian, that its leader is also the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, who every day roars on democracy, on constitutionality, on legality, on legitimacy, on human rights and on much more. That the vice-president of the proposing party is also the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who, by nature, needs to fight for parliamentaryism, for the equality of all MPs and parliamentary groups, that if others do not, he must certainly ensure equality and tolerance among the MPs, especially when it comes to MPs from opposition parties, which is an axiom of parliamentaryism, which others have spoken of. Unfortunately for me and disappointment, and as you have seen all the other MPs of the opposition who have so far spoken, the amendments and additions proposed in this proposal obviously do not have a "d" of democracy, or "in" of constitutionality, or "p" of parliamentaryism, or "n" of the MPs. This is especially true, ladies and gentlemen, points 4 to 14. Of course, as a serious MP of the serious party and with the trust I received from the citizens, I will not dispute the fact that during the previous period of work of this Parliament there were also some MPs who abused the pay phone, that there were inappropriate terms and expressions, that there were distortions on the agenda, there were also insults, there were also warnings and exclusions from the session. It was all in the previous period, it is now, and I claim it will always be, and not only in this Parliament, but also in another. You've seen the Japanese Parliament, where they're physically accounted for, I accidentally watched it. Of course, this does not give right to the promoter, besides all the MPs of the DOS who will adopt such a decision, to propose amendments and amendments of this kind, because they are in a brutal and inappropriate way injure or abolish the constitutional rights of the MPs and their freedom of speech. We, if these changes and changes are made, I mean, first of all, the MPs of the opposition, we will have the right to sit in the parliamentary benches, to keep our mouths shut and to vote. To remind you all together, there's a folk, someone asks someone what they do, they say, "Sit down, shut up and smoke." We will sit and remain silent, vote as you propose, because obviously parliament will be turned into a voting machine, and we MPs as some statues or statues, which we will move only when we have to vote or insert our card into a constituency unit. I want the citizens of Serbia, and especially our voters or voters to know that this is the third amendment to the 1994 Rules of Procedure, which restricts or abolishes constitutional or parliamentary rights to the MPs, which is why we stand up to it in this way. (Glass - time's up. I didn't run out. My time will come. I was planning on talking for 10 minutes, but you made it impossible for me, so I'm going to skip the argument. I'll just say three things. The current Rules of Procedure allowed time for all agenda points for the entire Assembly - 250 MPs per ten minutes 2,500 minutes or 42 hours, compared to five hours, as you suggest. That's ten times smaller. If I take an example of my parliamentary group, the SPS, 37 MPs per ten minutes is 370 or 6 hours, and now you're offering 30 minutes, which is 20 times less. So that Mr. Martian wouldn't warn me...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12541	Here, I was just about to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12542	I know you wanted to, I wanted to talk about Articles 4, 5, 10 and 11, but I have prepared amendments, so I will now invite you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially Mr. Michaels, to withdraw this proposal on behalf of the promoter or at least propose that the members of 4-11 be deleted, so that they do not remain black-lettered in Serbia's parliamentary life. In the end, who knows, maybe it will be, and then we'll see who's on what. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12543	Replica - Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12544	In what Mr. Pavlovic said there is no "and" of truth, no "p" of contradiction. On the contrary, this Rules of Procedure are fully in line with the Constitution and the law, and it absolutely guarantees all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and by the laws of the People's Parliaments, and I would like no longer to be deceived by the public that someone here is denying some rights and that those who have done so have been threatened here for years and decades. You who declared your rights were found to speak, and then denied them in various ways, found that you were speaking and teaching from democracy and law. Hitler did the same thing. He passed laws and then he acted according to the laws, and so did you, and you have no right to speak of it. We here can conduct polemics, arguments and it is quite different when someone from the Party of Serbian Unity or some other party is making objections to work, because they were not in power and were not the creators of fate and evil that hit us. So, in particular, I would like to stress here, we, as legislators, will accept certain amendments, and with other DOS parties, we have agreed, as they have participated in the work of this Rules of Procedure, to accept some amendments that will improve the text of this Rules of Procedure, these amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure. We didn't look at the party belongings of the applicants of the amendment. In any case, it will work to improve this text. It is simply not our goal to make changes for the sake of doing so, but to create a Rules of Procedure that will serve the congregation and that will prevent what has happened these years. Since someone told me before this to invite everyone who wants to listen to what the radicals say on Friday, feel free to come to the rally on Friday and enjoy what the MPs will give them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12545	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12546	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 96(2) of the Parliamentary Group, Mr. Mihajlov, in a very negative context, spoke about the SPS parliamentary group and I can tell you, Mr. Michael, you claim that your proposal is the Rules of Procedure under the Constitution. We claim and cite the members of the Constitution who have been broken. Form, Mr. Mihajlov, as the legalists of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, so let the Constitutional Court of Serbia say whether or not you have proposed under the Constitution. I claim here in front of the citizens of Serbia that it is almost unconstitutional what you have suggested. Form the Constitutional Court of Serbia and let it, finally formed, protect the rights of citizens and MPs here. And as for the previous period, for the past ten years, it is certain that the greatest responsibility for everything that has happened in the last ten years has been borne by this party that has been in power, the SPS. But it's hypocritical and shameful to talk about the last ten years, and forget those who invented the Markales to introduce the embargo, who invented Racak to be bombed by this country. And when we talk about it, we need to talk about the opposition that rang the bells, about the opposition that asked for the goals of the war, about the opposition that asked not to defend the country, about the opposition that demanded that taxes, contributions be not paid, about the opposition that spoke -- not bang, from the place of Rake Radovic, about the opposition that asked for no utility, electricity from Serbia, about the opposition that wanted chaos and anarchy in the country, and who defended the preservation of national dignity and national integrity. So much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12547	The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic, and then Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12548	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, against your expectations, I will begin my presentation on the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure to what I could do as an MEP to accept from this proposal. First of all, I could say it's acceptable for me to form a privatisation board. (Glass - for liquidation. ) Well, and for liquidation, Mrs Milka, but the privatisation board is probably something we've missed in our work so far, and privatisation is so important to this country that it's good that this parliament controls it. Maybe not exactly the way it was suggested, but in any case, it's good to have one such committee. What else is acceptable to me? It is acceptable for me to interpret it, but not in the way it is proposed in this decision, because it seems absurd to talk about the right of MPs to submit a proposal for interpretation if it is necessary to collect 50 signatures. Then it's a matter of absurdity. I think that a rational solution in this direction could be that any parliamentary group or at least the number of MPs that the least parliamentary group makes can submit such a proposal in this parliament. And now what I cannot accept as a People's MP, first of all for principled reasons, and I have several amendments to which I will speak. First of all, I cannot accept the proposal's approach to discussing this matter by an urgent procedure, and that the same proposing, so Democratic Party of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica, has, meanwhile, submitted five draft laws, if memory serves me well, which are in connection with the judiciary, courts, Supreme Court, etc. Wasn't it more important and productive for this country and this parliament to place these laws and these laws on the agenda of today's regular session of this Parliament? Secondly, I cannot accept all those restrictions concerning the role of MPs of any political party in respect of its individual rights. I would say that certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure endanger the rights and freedoms of the Members of the People to speak freely. I would ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, where will the MPs say what they think about a particular question, about certain provisions of the law, which is proposed in this House, if they can't say it exactly in this House? To limit time to 30 minutes for one parliamentary group, I think it's completely absurd, because we forgot that we have parliamentary groups with 46 MPs, and 37, how many SPS, and five MPs. Well, please, can I also reasonably compare the figures of 37 and five MPs? According to this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, both MPs have the same right to speak on the agenda within 30 minutes. You know, that individualism is present with each of us, and I think that no provision or constitution, or any law in this country, can dispute the right, and I would also say to the MP that his opinion on certain proposals in this particular place, therefore in this House, stands out. You are trying many measures, which are proposed by this Rules of Procedure, to even sanction, or even punish MPs, for warning, one or two, and later to disfellowship or take away words, etc. I think it's unrecorded in parliamentary practice and it's unacceptable. There were some people here who called for history. I would like to give you an example, which tells you how far we've actually gone in an attempt to limit the rights of the MPs. Surely most in this House are well-known stories about how after the oligarch in ancient Athens, so 30 of them ruled, some other people came to power, but the first thing they did was sentenced to death by one of the greatest thinkers and philosophers of old Athens, Socrates. And you know who made that decision -- just what they call themselves -- the DOS Democrats. You know, history spoke much better about Socrates much later, and many recognized him as one of the greatest thinkers and condemned such a democratic procedure, and Plato even wrote one of his best works "Apologetics", on this particular subject. Is there any intention of the Proposer to stifle every individual freedom of the MPs in this House? From there, I think it is a reasonable proposal to withdraw such a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, to suspend the sitting and to complete it, to be acceptable for the majority in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12549	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12550	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, when we began today's session and established this agenda, with a proposal to discuss amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and several months ago we spoke again, before that we discussed this topic and determined the minimum of some relations here in the Assembly, based on which there will be a part of democracy in the debate. The assembly should serve primarily to hear different opinions and different attitudes, as voters in Serbia think. However, in order to justify the thesis on this agenda point, the opposition in Serbia has been accused of not allowing the current government, which is trying to celebrate some year from its authority, with a basic thesis that the time has now come to make changes, and this year we have enjoyed power. What was the thesis - the thesis was that we were obstructing, because, rich, when the opposition sits here, the government can't do anything. And he has to listen to us from the opposition all day long, and then he can't work there. And I keep asking -- where are these MPs from the government when they're not here in the O.R., so it has to be concluded that there doesn't have to be a quorum at all. We ourselves from the opposition will sit here and talk about what comes to mind. And then from here it's said again - this is all by the Constitution and there's no fault. Unbelievable. Can anyone be punished for that nonsense when he says it like that? Of course he can't, because the Constitution wrote in Article 77. - that he can't be punished for public opinion. But then it's said in the Rules of Procedure -- you can also punish yourself with 20% of the salary, and you can complain to no one. For when such authority is established, you have no right to complain. You can't complain because your bread was three dinars, and now you have 30 dinars, etc. We can talk about this as much as you want. What's the biggest nonsensus here in this proposal -- first, two and a half months ago, we talked about the Privatization Act. We've all advocated, and the minority, by consensus, we've adopted to install a member on the control of the privatisation process. Today, we are looking for the establishment of a privatisation board, and we said there, under the Privatisation Act, it would be the responsibility of the Finance Committee to consider and control the privatisation process. So much for those two first members. The other members of the amendment proposal and the additions of the National Assembly's MPs speak only of the following - how to abolish so-called. Obstruction in the Assembly, how do you prevent opposition MPs from speaking behind a pay phone and making arguments, even if we praise the motions of the promoters? Whoever proposes the documents here, who proposes the agenda -- the agenda is proposed by the president of the Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submits proposals for the agenda. So how come the opposition doesn't allow the right legal proposals to be presented here, that there's a debate here on these legal proposals, and there's a rumor of how we're obstructing. So give the right laws, the right suggestions. You've been in here for a year -- the historical law of this, then the historical law of that, then 60 years, 50, 40, and some of them have been talking about 10 years. So don't change the thesis and keep talking about how someone else bothers you. You exercise power, but in the interest of the people, in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. That's what you seem to have forgotten, or it wasn't your wish. And as the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Branislav Ivkovic, said, everything was allowed while you were the opposition -- not to pay taxes, that's what you asked, not to pay communals, to bring down local authorities. Belgrade collapsed, there was a lot of work going on just to get you to power, and that was October 5th last year. And now that something needs to be done for these citizens, right now there's 11% production in Serbia, so I guess that's the agenda point. You've created crisis headquarters, you've destroyed Serbia's economy, you've conducted some kind of dialogue and debate. There's nothing on that basis. I'm asking you, how are we going to raise production, and this is what we're talking about -- well, that's terrible, my lords.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12551	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12552	Dear fellow Members, today is on the agenda, and by emergency procedure, a proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What about this Rules of Procedure, actually a proposal? I don't think that anywhere more rigid and restrictive rules of procedure are ever going to come before the MPs of the National Assembly, and I don't believe in any country, or those we call banana republics, or countries that were in the semi-colonial regime and that had that status, or these rules of procedure. What do I say? Any provision, any member of this amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure shall be anti-constitutional. What about the Rules of Procedure who literally gives the MP one minute and twenty seconds to talk about the Rules of Procedure or the agenda point? In one minute and twenty seconds, can you say something that will be used to improve a legal project? Has anyone said that there have been many more pressing things to put on the agenda of the first session of the regular autumn session, that there are, above all, extremely difficult social situations for citizens in Serbia, that there are high prices, Kosovo and Metohija, then elections that are probably soon in Kosovo and Metohija? My colleagues and I found it very easy to conclude that this could not be put on the agenda until it could be arranged that the MP could not come out and talk about these problems. How else would the citizens be deprived of hearing about these problems, except that MPs are forbidden to speak? They are forbidden if one parliamentary group gets 30 minutes per item of the agenda and 13 minutes more, say, for the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, the additional ones. Should I ask the president of the parliamentary group to give me a word, to talk about a problem that weighs, say, those 15 or how many citizens behind us, who have the same opinion of a problem as me, to represent them here? They can say that in some small stands, at some choir of citizens, at a bus stop, but they can't say that they're being heard by the public, but we're simply obliged -- that's our obligation -- to say what they're supposed to say. How am I supposed to say in a minute and 20 seconds about some important law that needs to be proposed here? That's why this is the most restrictive and rigid Rules of Procedure ever brought here. What did you say about the Rules of Procedure that was adopted in 1994 and which 15 times was, I say, more comfortable than this, which allowed each MP to report twice in 10 minutes? You said it was the greatest dungeon of public words, you said it was inappropriate in some banana states. Under the Rules of Procedure, any MP could submit an amendment to any member, to comment on any amendment. That's the kind of rulesman you said was the worst. Gentlemen, today you have submitted to us a proposal by the Rules of Procedure, which practically prohibits MPs from exercising their constitutional right to speak on behalf of their citizens who have chosen them. Practically, you've choked every word of the MP. In a minute, he simply can't say anything. This is what one of your leaders said in 1994: he mentioned that this session lasted three weeks, and it was about the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It lasted three weeks. It is obvious that the work of the Assembly, in connection with the debate on the draft rules of procedure, has fallen into a complete deadlock. Obviously, this way, by the will of the creator of this proposal, he wants to devalue and degrade the National Assembly. He then addresses the President of the National Assembly in connection with the punishment and expression of public warnings, and says: ‘ If you are forced to carry out, or act on the subject of this Rules of Procedure, you will have the role of an educator in a child’s kindergarten, an elder in a barracks or administrator in a correctional home. You'll have to have some trust of brains or some prophetess, which you so often call upon, to engage, so you can understand what someone wants to say, and then you'll be able to say the reminders lightningly and take the word. That, indeed, is now, in this Rules of Procedure, given to the President of the Assembly, or to the Chairman. As we began to change our Rules of Procedure, it looks like as children we're going to collect icons and fill the albums of Asterix or the aces of the football championships of Europe or the world. If anything could have humiliated this assembly and the MPs of the people, it is this proposal of the Rules of Procedure that you have made today. With this, practically, you stop every single word of the MPs from pointing to what they should point to when it comes to some draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12553	He has the word National MP Milan Stankovic. After him, the Messenger of the people Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12554	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the law or any other act is passed, there is always an explanation, that is, the government can always find an excuse to pass such an act, in this case the Rules of Procedure. This explanation, given by the promoter, is, in this case, the Democratic Party of Serbia, standing on rather flimsy feet. First, to remind you that Mr Vojislav Kostunica was a folk MP, that Mr Zoran Djindjic was also a national MP. They were both members of this House. Of course, not only did they, but many others, then opposition MPs, criticized the co-worker, submitted a large number of amendments when adopting the Rules of Procedure, and resisted the adoption of such a Rules of Procedure. They said such a rule of law is stifling parliamentaryism in Serbia, restricting the right of MPs to speak, as it is the only obligation for MPs to speak and defend the interests of citizens who have elected it. Now that these two are in power, they don't like the rules of procedure, but for quite another reason. According to them, such a Rules of Procedure gives too many opportunities to the MPs, and therefore it is necessary to reduce the obligations of the MPs. So, when you're in opposition, the Rules of Procedure are dictatorial, and when you're in power, that same Rules of Procedure is too democratic, so you need to cut down that democracy a little bit. With this I would like to remind the public of another of the DOS delusions, which under the password of the struggle for democracy came to power, and now abolishes already acquired rights and freedoms not only for the MPs of the people, but also for the citizens who chose these MPs. The current excuse for adopting such a rigorous Rules of Procedure, which practically means putting parliament under government control, is this: one Parliament, according to the Government, i.e. DOS, it costs a lot. That's right. And for me, as an MP living off his pay, that's a lot of money. However, if DOS believes taxpayers should not pay for the work of parliament in the state, then DOS can easily abolish parliament and resolve the financial problem. Someone here mentioned that he asked the National Assembly for information on how much the National Assembly's meeting costs, how much it costs to stay in hotels, and how much it costs to pay for people's MPs' journals. In principle, I agree that this is also done in order to rationalise Parliament's work, but this gentleman forgot to ask for information on the actual costs of the real government of the Republic of Serbia, who is bringing in TV and a training bike in his cabinet, and what will he do in his working hours. Instead of running the country and taking care of the state, he watches television at work and deceives the people to take care of him. The second reason, according to the promoter, is that some MPs are misbehaving, which is why they should be disciplined. It's just, he forgot to say that disciplining MPs is actually putting parliament under government control, and that's nothing but dictatorship. Also, he forgot to say that DOS is the only conduct that strikes the authorities and therefore wants to discipline MPs, those MPs from the opposition who only criticise the government. If someone behaves inappropriately in parliament, citizens will not vote for him in the next election. It is a true democratic punishment for the impropriety of the MPs. The promoter also forgot to say that misbehaving is when DOS MPs do not attend meetings because they also serve as directors, president or members of various boards of directors. Because they do not attend sessions, the congregation cannot work. Of course, it increases the work costs of the Assembly, not the opposition, as some want to present it. The third reason is that an increased legislative activity of parliament is expected, according to the proponent, so that the opposition does not stop changes that are in the citizens' interest, it should be completely impossible to speak. This is, of course, a big con. No one forbids the government to run the country, to make the citizens better. It is not the Assembly that ordered the government to increase electricity prices, utility, telephones, food, etc. (President: Time) I'm done. For all these reasons, many of the new rules of procedure are anti-democratic, anti-national, and some of these proposals, such as punishing MPs, are also anti-constitutional. I know that the citizens of this country may be tired, but their vigilance to allow themselves better tomorrow, because if this government disables now such bold, autocratic and arrogant behavior, I can be sure that the next authorities will not think of introducing such rules and laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-02-0.u12555	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people is Zivko Selakovic. We have a complaint from the MP that we don't have a quorum to work with. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. Mr. Ilic, it looks like you've lost a good time to speak now. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 160 MPs attend today's session. Please confirm the quorum. I find there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Milan Radulović, Vlatko Sekulović, Višnja Nežić, Petar Misic, Kermeci Karolj, Branislav Kovacevic, Nebojsa Leković, Ivan Andrić, Boris Karaičić, Predrag Bajčetić, Goran Ćirić, Milena Milosevic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Natasa Milojevic, Jelena Milenković, Biaci Anton. In the morning, Prime Minister Budimovic and Dragisa Popovic were absent, while announcing Srdja Popovic's delay. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (addition) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
