ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I object to Article 144's injury. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refers to amendments and which clearly states: "The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government, are obliged to submit amendments before the National Assembly session to the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. "Article 136, which led us to the president of the National Assembly, refers only to the bill and it applies to the decision in principle. Today, the National Assembly cannot, if it adheres to the Rules of Procedure, discuss this law. He cannot move to the debate if he does not have the opinion of the relevant committees, the Government and the Proposer (in this case the Government is a Proposer) on the amendments submitted. Let me remind you, the day before yesterday we interrupted the National Assembly session to give the government time to get acquainted with our amendments and to deliver their opinions on them. Then why did we interrupt the interchange session of the National Assembly? What the government was doing yesterday all day if we continue this morning as if yesterday hadn't happened at all, again without the Government's opinion on the amendments. I suggest we decide if he's a member of 144. The Rules of Procedure have been broken or not, and I warn you that it is and that you should not be doing this facelessly beyond the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which is still, as it is, existing in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13171	This has already been stated in some ways by the National Assembly. You could have pointed out the proposal not to make a decision without the government's opinion, but you missed it. Your proposal and your interpretation of this member would essentially be an advocate that the committee or government could block the work of the National Assembly by failing to deliver opinions and, in that case, the Assembly could not continue to work. You are, of course, fully aware of that. I don't think that's even realistic, your interpretation is, precisely by the consequences, that the government can't give an opinion and that the National Assembly can't continue to work. It's perfectly clear, and it's regulated by Article 136. It says it's due, and we can reprove the government and in that part I would agree with you, but surely we can't let the government, as an executive body or any assembly committee, by not stopping the operation of the National Assembly, and that's just being solved the way it's decided. I'm putting your motion to the vote that there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. For 55, against 104 abstentions, two did not vote 24, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. He has the word Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13172	Mr. President, please bring that glass of water here, since I have over 100 amendments today. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the implementation of the census, households and dwellings in the Republic of Serbia in 2001, so we propose to postpone the 2003 census. This may seem strange to you in view of my debate and the debate of the MPs of the SRS group we had in principle, but after I give you the reasons why I am asking for it, I think it will be clear to everyone why it is. It is clear that DOS will not be able to complete the census in 2002. When I say DOS, I mean DOS at both federal and republican level. To remind ourselves, first, the Republic of Montenegro postponed the census for 2002, and then the federal government maintained it, since it is unable to perform its functions on the territory of the entire country, passed a law to postpone the census for 2002. We, here, nine months later, from the time we were supposed to run the list, we're postponing the list for April 2002. What's going to change by 2002? Probably nothing. I don't think this government has any resources, I remind you that only this year was supposed to allocate about 400 million dinars for all the actions that precede the census and the execution of the census, and there's no good will to make the list. It is obviously waiting for the demographic structure to change as they assume it will change after the adoption of a new constitution they advocated, which Zorica Radovic has prepared, because nothing in the demographic structure can be expected to change, after you pave Serbia into six autonomous provinces, after Kasiociji is able to implement his plan and after allowing Canku to secede the AP Vojvodina. That is why we propose that this list be postponed for 2003, so that this Parliament is not once again distracted by the same draft law. We assume and we are convinced that early elections will be called next year, that this parliament will look quite different, that the government will be made by some other people, seriously, who will be able to implement this list in 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13173	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator has shyly cited at least two reasons why the list could not have been carried out this year within the time limit prescribed by the law, but will certainly not be implemented within a time limit which now sets out this amendment to the List Act. The first, shyly stated, is the reason Montenegro's stance on the SRJ census. I suppose the DOS decided to first agree with Montenegro on everything, to bring us out if we have a common state or we don't have, and then to list what remains after DOS, and after DOS, there will be little state left for the census, or at least a lot less population will have a much smaller territory of the state that DOS surrenders, when it loses power, than the one it gets in the hands of management when the government takes over. I have been informed by phone from the government of the Republic of Serbia that the government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted this amendment and that it has become an integral part of the bill, and that the National Assembly does not have to declare it at all. I'm surprised you didn't read it, Mr. President. I assume you too have been informed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this amendment has accepted. I warn you that we cannot discuss the amendments, because the President has not given us the government's position on the amendments. The interpretation of Mr. President of the National Assembly cannot be applied at all in order for the Government to obstruct the work of the National Assembly, because this is a bill submitted by the Government. If the government doesn't want its draft law to be on the agenda, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we move to the next item of the agenda, which the government wants to be on the agenda. It is obvious that the government is not interested in the fate of this law, because it has not been declared. If the government, as a proposing, is not interested in the fate of this law, why should the National Assembly be interested? We must, if we respect the rules that you set out in this book, stop making decisions under this first amendment and we must not put ourselves in a position to vote in any way on the amendment to the bill, which the Government has tabled, which the Government has not given its opinion on. So I invite you, if there is little reason and if you want to bring this congregation to law, to follow the law, to follow the rules. Anything we adopt illegally can be in legal traffic for a while, but it will be annulled, I guarantee you. And you're aware that you've been canceling some decisions, made in the period before you, because you don't think they've been passed by law. But this National Assembly, in passing all laws that commit 10 million people, violates the Rules of Procedure and violates the laws. If it says in this Rules of Procedure, and I didn't decide whether to write or not, that we can't discuss amendments without the Government's stance, we can't discuss amendments. It's no longer interpreted, that's what you called the President's discretionary right to take the money to the MPs, to make warnings. Well, this is one clear right, no more. It says he can't do it without the government's stance, and he can't, the Assembly can't make a decision anymore. It can make a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure, but that something can go beyond the provisions of the Rules of Procedure - well, don't, please, bring us into a situation where this National Assembly, since the introduction of multilaterals, has not been at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13175	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 122, abstention 23, not voted 11, a total of 192. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I warn you that the provisions of article 146 have now been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Paragraph 4 reads: "The National Assembly specifically decides on any amendment that the legislator, committee or government did not accept." Now I'm interested in why you specifically decided on this amendment, when you don't know whether the government accepted it or not? Does the Assembly know whether the proposer of this law has accepted this amendment or not? And what if he accepts the amendment, you make a decision that the amendment cannot be adopted, and he becomes an integral part of the bill and can no longer be deleted from the law? So what are you playing at, like this is a nursery? This is the most legislative body in the Republic of Serbia. From our work today, it is the seriousness of the citizens on the street. If we don't follow the laws, how are we going to get the man who drives the car to stop when the red light is on the traffic lights? He will then say--so what are you MPs doing there in the assembly, this my offense is nothing compared to you. I ask that votes be voted on injure the Rules of Procedure, Article 146, paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13177	You point out the same constant objection, and I warn you that article 97 states that there is no point in pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure relating to the decisions of the Assembly. This is what the Assembly has already stated - that it will work and decide on amendments without the government's opinion being delivered. Please note to the Rules of Procedure, which relate to this decision of the National Assembly and to the further course of work under this decision of the National Assembly, whose objection you have already pointed out and what the Assembly has decided, you are no longer referring to it. I would like to vote against Mr Nikolic's objection that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. For 55, against 119, abstention, did not vote 16, a total of 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does Mr. Nikolic want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? If not, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 123, 25 abstentions, 18, 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment, and I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does Mrs. Jovanovic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13178	This law and the relationship between the government of the Republic of Serbia towards amendments submitted by SRS lawmakers shows that the Serbian government headed by Zoran Djindjic is slowly introducing dictatorship in Serbia, because the government's lack of interest in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and what opposition MPs are up for, in order to correct such embellishment of the laws of the Government of Serbia, speaks sufficiently of the government's relationship, as well as its individuals, as well as the fact that the Government of Serbia defines certain categories in our society with over 90 regulations. On the other hand, Mr. Martian, you are constantly talking about the fact that the Legislative Committee has not or has accepted someone's amendment. I think it is time that you, as president of the Assembly, Deputy Secretary or Secretary myself, learn that the Legislative Committee can only say whether any amendment is legally possible or not. This is not the parent committee that would decide on this bill and on the amendments that have been submitted to it. As far as my amendment is concerned, it refers to Article 7, and the previous law in Article 13, which is said to be extended from 31 March 2001 to 31 March 2003. The president of the National Assembly himself said that he did not understand what the SRS MPs' efforts on the one hand are criticising the government of the Republic of Serbia -- because it is incompetent, uninterested to implement the census, and the deadline has expired long ago, why it is only on the agenda in October -- and on the other hand we ask that the deadline be extended. We ask that the deadline be extended because we believe that the new one, but in the right sense of the words, will be democratic -- the radical government in 2003, to carry out the census in Serbia. We believe that this will happen not only because of the lack of interest and because of this relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the population list, but also because of the worsening state in every respect, in every segment of our country's life. In order to explain to MPs, and above all to groups decomposed from DOS, what this law and this amendment is all about, although many have not finished reading today's daily and weekly presses, I will tell you that it refers to an extension of the deadline for the Republic Statistical Institute and the Republic Geodetic Institute. What exactly is the job of the Republic Geodetic Institute in the census? He should co-operate with the Republic Statistics Institute in the preparation phase of the census, and in accordance with the law and methodological instructions of the federal statistical organisation, provide updated limits for statistical circles. These updated limits of statistical circles would probably be for some of the DSS, from the entire DOS, to be modelled by Dr Zorica Radovic, the new creator of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that one statistical round or border in the future methodology is framed with the region in a way that will be fragmented by Serbia under the Constitution of Mrs Zorica Radovic, wife of President Vojislav Kostunica. It is very important that MPs know, as well as the general public, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is not interested in carrying out a census, including because it cannot explain to families more than 1,300 missing, kidnapped, kidnapped Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, what their destiny is and how it will be included in the future census. On the other hand, we also need to know that the federal government has delayed the census for the following year, and we believe that it will not be in this composition, nor will the federal government, nor will the Republic government implement it in 2002, because these delays have been dictated by separatists from Montenegro, because, in the very explanation of this proposal, the law on the postponement of the census next year, it is nice to say that the separatist Montenegrin government itself has taken measures, as it is doing, without respecting the decisions of the federal administration, and you and Kostunica yourself, have many problems with them, and therefore you were forced to move the deadline for 2002, but we believe that the census will still wait for radical authority next 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13179	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our people say well - according to the saint and the troupe. As you treat the MPs of the SRS in this National Assembly, so will we, especially the president of the National Assembly, who is actually the conductor of the orchestra who is trying to inflict as much evil on the SRS group as possible. It is about amendments to the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Census List submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs. Just because the amendments have been tabled by the SRS MPs, the government does not deliver an opinion on these amendments, and the assembly follows the government and accepts that it is discussing and voting on amendments that the government has ignored, only because they have been submitted by the SRS's MPs. That whoever is chairing this assembly is thinking a little bit about that 250 MPs in the Serbian Parliament are absolutely equal, that every legislator, namely the amendment to the law, would not allow the government, that the executive power elected by this assembly, thank God without the SRS, is malpracticing anyone, ignoring any national MP in the Serbian Parliament. This amendment deserves attention, just like the unions were on the street and objected that this amendment should be adopted. It is impossible that you are now ready to negotiate all day tomorrow the amendments you will write or accept because you have been pressed by workers. The amendments submitted by an authorised promoter, which is called the MP of the Serbian Radical Party, are being thrown out of the window without even looking at them. This does not deserve the amendment of the People's MP, and it does not matter what the People's MP is called or which group the MP belongs to. I warn you, don't decide on amendments and the law in general without forcing the government to respect the MPs and the National Assembly. You're gonna love it about your head, and I'm especially warning the MP groups who claim to be opposition MPs. Whoever thinks the opposition is here can't vote for the government to decide what will happen to the National Assembly. Those who represent the majority, the government's majority in this congregation. They don't think they're available to the law, and they'll be there eventually. I ask those MPs who place themselves in opposition, who were on DOS lists, do not put up with this hiducia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13181	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13182	In just a few weeks, you'll be exposed to the same kind of blow. The moment you disturb the government too much, when you raise your head too much, it will apply these same methods to you. I promise you, you'll have our protection and support and then, but better yet, that's the principle, unfortunately, and I'm not giving up on principle, that you're thinking about it while it's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13183	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 32, against 120, abstention 22, did not vote 15, a total of 189. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does Mr. Wolfie want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to point out one thing before I determine myself according to the amendment and explain it to the MPs, to this high house. It is interesting that we have not received at all the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is mandatory, and is obliged to have a synonym, and cannot in any way be determined as some kind of academicity or alternativeity in the ability of the Government, therefore it is explicitly mentioned in the sublegal act of the Supreme Legislative Body of Obligations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give its opinion on amendments to the MPs. That's why we interrupted Tuesday's session; it turns out that I was right, that it was suspended because of the strike, not because the government will consider amendments to the MPs. This is about something else. While there was a principle debate here he was a representative of the government, a representative of the executive body of government, sat down, although he did not speak much - in two sentences he explained his bill. We expected this to be much more serious for the people's MPs and the public of Serbia. But all the time after that, we don't have anyone from the government. Today's session of the National Assembly has no representative of the executive government. No one cares what the fate of the amendments of the MPs will be, no one cares what the fate of the whole law will be. He doesn't care, even if the anti-business climate of his head or the raise of his hand says whether the government agrees with a certain amendment, he will thus give a sign to the parliamentary majority whether to vote for or against the amendment. I knew about this amendment, that almost no one in the DOS parliamentary majority knew at all what the amendment was about, they would vote against just because it was my amendment. I can't even think of an explanation. I'm withdrawing the amendment. I'm withdrawing the amendment because I know it won't pass, nor did anyone read it. They read the papers, whether daily newspapers, "Express", "Politics", "Rapporteur" or whether I don't know which newspapers, the seeds bite. Some may also read the "Serbian word", although the party's representative is gone, they may be there next time, but there are exes. In any case, I think the Serbian government must show an incomparably different attitude towards the National Assembly. If the Government has been able to submit an amendment to its text of the bill and it is an integral part of the text of the law, so I guess it is normal and decent, (if nothing else, if they do not already respect the law, if they do not respect the Constitution) to be determined according to the amendments of the MPs, that at least show respect for the Supreme legislative authority in this country, and not in such a way that it is not supported, that an attempt is made to humiliate the MPs who think differently from the executive authority, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I just don't have a word for it, this has never really happened. To say that being a government doesn't mean it's mandatory -- I'd like you to give me another word that would be synonym, except that it's mandatory. It cannot be anything more important than the process of work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be changed by the government with its impunity and dissatisfaction in any way. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13185	I find that MP Aleksandar Vukic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 8. This ended the search of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. The proposaler's representative is not here. I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the census, households and dwellings in 2001 in the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 116, against 39, the abstentions were not, were not voted 22, a total of 177. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a bill amending the Law on the implementation of the census, households and dwellings in the Republic of Serbia in 2001. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Judicial Taxes You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by MPs: Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralic, Aleksandar Vukic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Natasa Jovanovic and Tomislav Nikolic. National MP Rajko Baralic informed the National Assembly that he is withdrawing the amendment to Article 10. It's a bill of law. In addition, you have received corrections in amendments submitted by the MPs of the people Natasa Jovanovic - to Article 34 and Petar Petrovic - to Article 6. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee on the examination of the draft law. Before opening a principled search, I remind you of the Rules of Procedure established a total time of debate in principle. Is there any suggestion that the time for debate should be extended in principle? There isn't. Here you go. Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13186	Mr. President, I don't know why, but you have left the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Vukurovic to Article 6. Proposal for a law on court fees, which was filed in the Assembly on 18 October under number 03434-2163/01 at 12 hours and 30 minutes. There's another one with the same number.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13187	I wouldn't know to tell you, it's written down and it's going to be checked out, and until the amendment debate... (Božidar Vucurovic, from the post: I can explain if you allow me. There's no need. It wasn't Mr. Nikolic who asked you, it was the Assembly. Hence, the congregation will receive an answer. We can continue our work, if you agree, because until the amendment we'll have more time. Does he have any suggestions to extend the time of the debate? No, I don't. ) I ask the presidents - representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit lists of speakers. Are there any more applications? No, there isn't. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He's gone. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I continue, since it is not marked, I assume that the SPS Group is against, of course. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13188	Dear Mr President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has decided not to support this law for the following reasons: in Article 3. The bill states that Article 28 of the "250 new" replaces the "10,000 dinars" and this is about an increase in the price by 40 times; Article 4 states, in Article 31, "500 new dinars" are replaced by "5,000 dinars," and here increases the price of the court fee by 10 times; in Article 5, paragraph 3, paragraph 3 of the "50 new dinars" is replaced by the number of "2,000 dinars", which also increases the price of the court fee by 40 times. In the light of this proposal for a law, it is proposed that the law be published in a proportionate way to raise taxes, i.e. the harmonisation of taxes with changed economic circumstances, with the growth of earnings and prices, as well as other factors that have a significant impact on the collection of costs for the work of courts. With full respect for the difficult economic situation in our judiciary, I have to realize that the salaries have not increased by 40 times or 100 times, and neither have the prices increased by 40 times, or 100 times. That's why this government's argument is inappropriate anyway, and it seems untrue to me. I'm sorry to use such harsh words, but it's a fact. The government argued in its argument and argued that these costs of collecting court tax are proportionally rising profits and rising prices, which is not the case. For these reasons, and in order to protect the standards of our citizens, which has been broken down lately anyway, the Serbian Unity Party will not support this law and will vote against it. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13189	The word has Mr. Vukic, and then Mr. Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill was to be explained by one of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or had to. I think that Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Vladan Batic has been elected as an authorised promoter. It says in the text that we all got, but there's not a single member of the government here who would say anything about a law that they want to convince the MPs to vote for. This has never happened in the National Assembly. Never. I call on the ruling majority's MPs to really understand it, to understand it, to look at it if they want even from that dictatorial period that even then it was a real boom of reform and democracy compared to what we have today. Today, the government expects her law to be passed. One, in our opinion, bad law. Bad law because it's an additional blow to citizens' standards. It even interferes in some constitutionally guaranteed human rights, almost in a direct way. I'll explain what's going on. And there is not a single representative of the government who will come out and explain to the MPs why it is necessary to vote for this law. Why is it necessary in this way to raise court fees, tax charges on every submission, on charges, charges, charges, objections, beatings, and everything else. Let's see what this is about. We have here something that should bring us back a little bit to the era of the market, even in a branch of the judicial authority that has to be completely independent, not only of the executive but also of the legislative one, and especially of the individual courts, it is understood, which has nothing to do with courts of general jurisdiction, such as the Constitutional Court, but here is the Supreme Court, etc. We must in every way see how it is paid and how all those working in Serbia's judicial system are supported. It says here that the participation of taxpayers in the financing of the work of courts is increasing. That's right. But the question arises whether even in this material effect will be the way the government wanted it to be, and whether the constitution guarantees citizens the right to judicial protection, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, will at all be possible. I don't think it's going to be because according to certain disputes, in the fourth section you have, you can see that a huge amount of money needs to be allocated for certain submissions, a huge amount of money. Let's just say, if so far it took 2,500 dinars to file a divorce lawsuit, or something else, now you need 25,000 dinars. For me, the question is, of course, if the intention of the state to take measures, i.e. court fees, is to take measures of general and special prevention in the family-law area, that it wants to protect the survival of marriage, but what where there are extremely justified reasons for divorce - how someone who doesn't have that money will collect 1,000 marks or 900 marks, but how much is it worth...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13191	Please don't throw it away. Please don't throw it away, it's a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13192	Just don't racket anyone. I'm not worried. I'm not looking for any warning. So, what... Oh, man, will you let me talk? So the bottom line is that we have disputes where the value of the claim, so the court tax, is going to be greater than the total value of the dispute. So here you have an example of trespassing. If it's some insignificant matter, something that's of little importance to someone, but a man wants to protect his right, he has a constitutionally guaranteed right to judicial protection. He must give at least 5,000 dinars for trespassing. Here you have the possibility, even says -- if the object of the dispute is not estimable, as the value is taken instead of 50, how much so far it's been in the law, 2,000 dinars, which is 40 times what we've had so far. So 40 times the increase. Whether profits and prices are -- because here they're talking about very incorrect points, instead of talking about cost indices, about price indices, about how much nominal wages -- are increased, so that based on something we can figure out why these court fees are so increased, the tariffs are taxed. This is about having something in one sentence that's very vague -- it's about changing social circumstances, increasing prices and earning. The increase in earnings in nominal amounts is about 20-30%, so in no case can you talk here about compliance with the increase in earnings. You can talk about harmonising with an increase in prices. It is true that certain prices have increased by 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, but I have not yet heard that some have increased by 4,000%, as we have examples here. Maybe it was, maybe it was, but I haven't heard it yet. I know the power's up about 300 percent, I know the phone pulses are up by about 300 percent, I know the price of bread and milk, about 300 and 400 percent are up, but by 4,000 percent I haven't heard yet that some price is so high. Here, here we have it. The profits didn't cross, I'm talking about nominal earnings, not to mention the difference between gross and net wages, because you're now saying that the salary is 200, given that everything that's sometimes counted as a warm meal, a regression and everything else, so you're saying it's much more than the 90s, and objectively and essentially not. So, given all of this, it seems to me that these court fees are one new imposition to the citizens, something that the citizens will hardly be able to bear, something that will put their hands in their pockets even more deeply, with everything that's been going on over the past few months in mind. The question is whether they will be able to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed right, and the constitutionally guaranteed right to judicial protection. With such court fees, with such solutions, which the Government has proposed, which no one in the National Assembly wants to defend and refuse to explain to the MPs, it seems to me that we will not get far and that we will only make it difficult for the citizens to take away their rights. If you want, it also touches the human rights and freedoms Corps, which the DOS majority was allegedly so proud of. Will people be able to exercise those rights? I'm sure they won't. It is not a problem for tariffs when the value of the dispute is over 500,000 dinars, because it will have to pay that 10%, how much, plus a certain percentage according to the value of the dispute. But what do those people whose value of the dispute is incomparably smaller, who don't usually have that money, I'm talking about litigation first, they don't have, they don't have that option, how will they protect their right? The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group believes it is a blow to the pockets, budget and standards of Serbian citizens and will therefore vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13193	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13194	Dear Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing a law establishing a new level of court taxis. In my opinion, several logical questions arise: 1. Is the increase in court taxis real? Is it following the cost of living? 2. Will Serbian citizens be able to pay new court fees? 3. Will the increase in court fees contribute to improving the material position of judicial employees? 4.Will the increase in court fees contribute to the improvement of the work of the judiciary, i.e. will citizens be able to exercise their rights before the judicial authorities? First, does the level of the court taxis, since the last alignment was done a few years ago, follow the increase in the cost of life, or is it based on a unique criterion? We see through the content of this bill that the legislator did not unambiguously regulate this issue. There's been an increase in court fees four times, about ten times, and somewhere there's coordination and more. It remains unclear, there is no explanation in the law, why different criteria were applied. I mention this because it was logical to expect the rate of growth to be unique for all court fees. I must also note that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in another law, in amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, has carried out four times the legal mark of which contains the property value. So she applied a single criterion. In this bill, the Government applies a second criterion. Why did court fees go up like four or five or six or ten or so times? The answer can be as follows: if there is a time difference compared to two different laws, then the criterion in those two laws should be different, not in one law, different criteria. If it is not, then it is a lack of a firm criterion for the government of the Republic of Serbia, then it is purely volunteering. In any case, this is not good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and is talking about how the government works. Secondly, will the citizens be able to pay a new increase in court fees? Taking into account the constant increase in the cost of living in Serbia during 2000, without paying for price increases, which is the logical consequence of the constant decline and production throughout the year, as well as the fact that we have a reduction in the material rights of employees, i.e. Those who lose their jobs, logically, that citizens will have no money for more court fees. The money they earn will primarily be needed to satisfy the existential life minimum. Third, will this increase in court fees contribute to improving the material position of judicial employees? They won't, because the money from the court taxis goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget and will be spent on other needs. A few years ago, the situation in the judiciary, in the material sphere, was not well, but we knew then why it was so - the result of long-term sanctions, the exhaustion of the country, later bombings, wars, etc. So everything that's been happening to us for the past few years. Now, since the beginning of 2000, at least in the economic sphere and internationally, we have one completely different situation, alleged openness and admission to all international and financial institutions, but there is no increase in production, no increase in living standards, no increase in employee salaries. Of course, there's no sanctions. All of this, called positively, has no positive impact on improving the material position of judicial employees. That, without a doubt, is one negative factor that paints or gives one corner of the general state in the judiciary. Second, it certainly is this constant permanent interference of the executive authority in the work of the judicial authorities. But that's not what I'm talking about this time, it's when we talk about the next set of laws. Fourthly, will this law improve judicial work, i.e. Will the citizens be able to exercise their rights? The exercise of rights before courts, due to the increase in court fees, can be challenged by this law for a large number of natural and legal persons, i.e. it can become a privilege of a narrow circle of the rich. Instead of paying court fees, citizens will, for example, make fictitious contracts, avoid books of immovableity, rights and others, and the negative consequences, and there will be more, will of course reflect multiple. All these things I mentioned, especially related to the level of court fees and the fact that citizens will not be able to pay court fees, and that the funds from the court taxis will not be used to improve the material position of the employees in the judiciary, have convinced us, MPs of the SAA, that this law is bad and that the government should withdraw it. We, the Socialists, are not going to support this bill. Finally, about the facts mentioned by some fellow MPs that there are no government representatives in the assembly -- no doubt this represents ignoring parliament and MPs in the longer term. There's no one in front of the government who can further explain some legal solutions. There is no one who could answer any questions asked by MPs. I don't know why we've accepted amendments in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly so that the representatives of the Government can speak whenever and how much they want, when they're gone at all. This, to us socialists, tells us of a kind of supremacy that the government shows to parliament, that the government considers itself an autonomous body for which parliament does not matter unless it gives consent to the laws it proposes. We Socialists think it is not good for parliament either, let alone for the state of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13195	Thank you. I give my word to the president of the DOS parliamentary group -- Democratic Party of Serbia, Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13196	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, no matter how much this law on amendments and additions to court taxis acted in one piece, its significance is much greater. It's not just the obligation to press charges and all the other overtures, which is regulated by this law, but the importance of this law applies to two aspects of which we have to start. First of all, one part of the fees for the work of the courts, that's one aspect. The second aspect is where we burden our citizens who want to exercise their rights in court. There is no doubt that this is a law that was amended in 1997 and that the amounts that are in the current law are not adequate to the circumstances, this is the danger that our courts will be buried if the fees are too low. Citizens won't be able to protect their rights. I remind you that the courts are here to protect the interests and rights of individuals as well as the state itself, so that the fees must be higher, so that the courts are not covered by a large number of cases, and we know what situation our judiciary is in. That's what we have left. I would say that we know why the situation in the judiciary is like this - because we have one completely unsolved system of justice and that's what we got in the amanet of our predecessors. But that's not what we're gonna talk about right now. So unless we want our courts buried, if we want our courts to be more effective (the fact is that at this point the courts are covered by disputes, we find it difficult to exercise rights before the court, especially when it comes to the execution of judgments), we feel that the fees should be raised, but that they must be appropriate to the circumstances in which our state is currently in place, and especially to citizens who are under various pressures. There is one social tension and there is no need to increase it yet, in a way that is not fully foreseen by this law, because certain fees may need to be considered and reduced, while a certain number of taxis are suitable for the given circumstances. The fees can't be too high. Why can't they be too tall? In that case, the courts, on the one hand, will do better those things that have been launched, but in any case these cases will be less. On the other hand, citizens will not be in a position to exercise their rights before the court, which will either open up the possibility that these citizens against whom they have been wronged and that those who have done so will remain unpunished for what they are doing; or that they will open up the possibility for citizens without a court to exercise their rights, which would lead to an increase in the rate of violence, crime. That's why the height of taxis is extremely important and it regulates a good part of social relations and allows citizens to protect their rights. What makes this law bad is in the part where it hasn't changed, in the part where it was bad and when it was brought by the Socialists and all those who participated with them in power. This applies first of all to the fact that there is no fiscal decentralisation here, that there is no direct connection between the tax charged and the courts to which the tax has been charged, that there is no direct orientation in a certain percentage of the fees charged in a particular court, and that is something we felt that this law must be changed. All funds are being pooled into one account, at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the then competent minister directs those funds to certain courts. We believe that, in order to improve the material position of courts and judges, in this situation when we have no other laws, this should be the first step. This law can do something to improve the material position of judges, and thus make our judicial system more effective in this given situation. I think it's much more important than the part relating to the lifting of certain taxis to be decentralisation, to establish a direct link between courts and taxis charged and the incomplete amount to be returned to the courts, but in one particular part to return to the courts, while the part that remains should be directed to courts that cannot by themselves through taxis to collect the funds necessary for their operation. It's one model that's just, fairer than this existing (I say bad) model that hasn't changed since the Socialists. That is why we at the DSS believe that the government should withdraw this proposal from the procedure, to work it out in a work related to decentralisation of the funds collected to target these funds where they are collected (meaning, in competent courts) which would allow for more efficient and better work of the courts, because the courts that collect larger funds will be far more efficient and will work better. They will be interested in doing as many cases as possible, in raising as much resources as possible, in protecting citizens' rights better, and simply, it is a new system that the government should resort to at the moment, so that we, as the DSS, are inclined to propose to the government to do so, in order to have the opportunity to vote in favour of this proposal. In case this doesn't happen, we won't vote for this law -- unless there's a change that concerns part of the decentralisation of funds and a reference to the funds where they're being collected. We think this is very important and that this may be a small step, but a step that shows the government's intention to decentralise the true desire to improve the material position of courts and judges. In this way, we would do something that would be good for the citizens and we have a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Serbia withdraws this proposal, do it in a decentralisation work, and then come before the Assembly something that will satisfy, above all, the interest of the citizens who are protecting them through the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13197	Thank you, second call from the representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13198	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think we're talking about something very serious right now. Namely, I did not have the right to reply because there was no mention of the SRS parliamentary group, but I will use my ten minutes to point out something that is almost incredible. What does the government of the Republic of Serbia now have to do when no one, according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, has the right to do so? Nobody. The Government of the Republic of Serbia can only withdraw the law from the procedure. It's the only solution. Or to accept our amendment. Nothing else. Not that the government's making a proposal, so someone's gonna accept it or not. On the other hand, I have one more thing to notice: I can't agree with one thing I wouldn't criticise in the DSS law package, where it's about the functioning of courts from the general jurisdiction and specialised, even though we're against specialised courts, we'll talk about it later when that package comes on the agenda. Here, the final provisions say (judgment law): "The work of the courts is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. "What does that mean now? Here we would bring some kind of back specialis from where the court's work will be financed. In such a way - directly from the court taxis, and here will be financed from the other part, so from one part to the other, from one part to the other, from one part of the budget. So it's out of the budget, and it's the Government who submits the National Assembly to the entire budget, all revenue and expenditure parties, in all sections. The National Assembly approves it, or not. These are budget revenues, not special revenues. So, what's being charged in the First Municipal Court is now that it stays with the First Municipal Courage Court, and what's being charged in the Fourth Municipal Court, to keep it from them, to introduce a sewer. Now, that's something you can't do, it can't seem. This law is bad for one reason - because it affects the abolition of the right to judicial protection for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I call on Members of Parliament to think even of the material-financed element. If you have an increase of six or seven (of course, you'll be entitled to a replica, so I'm talking about you, unlike you, we're gentlemen, and we always say who we're talking about and what we're thinking about), so if you have 10 times or five times the court fee, the question is, are you going to have this number of submissions, like we have today, and what percentage are you going to decrease by 100%, 200%, 300%, how much? So the material-financed element will not be as favourable for the government of the Republic of Serbia as it otherwise expects. And that's another reason why such an increase in court fees should be refused. I'm saying again, if someone is going to say that 25,000 dinars is the right price for a divorce case, the question is... You know, it can be a real price, if you can already make reconciliation at the preparatory hearing, so, come on, look, it wasn't some big problem, so it's affecting the reduction of court proceedings, which is usually too much in our country. Not to lie, and it is said to our people that they like to go to court often and sue, to complain, etc., which is understandable, but it is a constitutionally guaranteed right of citizens. But this way -- what if a man beats a woman, of course a woman will ask for a divorce, is pretty logical, and there are no 25,000 dinars, what to look for? He's going somewhere else, so what now? But don't do that, it's something you can't accept, it's what's the problem with this law. It would be good for someone from the government to come and say something positive about this bill, and not for us to argue here between different parliamentary groups, we go with our arguments, cross them, and they don't care at all. They're smart, they're not interested in the National Assembly. The system of division of the authorities, of course, separates the functions of the legislative powers and functions of the executive bodies of the authorities, i.e. the prerogatives and authorities, but there are instruments of control of the executive authority. In this sense, the legislative authority is the highest authority, and in this country, the legislative authority becomes nothing, or the MPs, possibly, are serving for racketeering, that someone is taking away their money here, in order to fill the budget, and absolutely nothing more. The government of Serbia The National Assembly is not interested, the government of Serbia The National Assembly is not interested as the supreme representative body. Their representatives in this house have nothing to do. The question is whether we are now 70, 80, as much as DOS MPs are interested in the majority, and I am talking about government representatives for days. I also believe that in debacles the value can't be less than 5,000 dinars, too, too, really too much. You have an example, an amazing example, and I call upon someone to explain to us, from people who will support this bill, even from the parliamentary majority, who will be recognized in the criticism of the government's work. He says, "If the object of the dispute is not estimable, the value is taken from 50 new to two thousand dinars." I understand what happened in paying around tax marks, because there were some changes that were made in the beginning of 2000, so it went to 750 dinars, so now it's going to a thousand dinars, etc. But what I was talking about, about Section IV, it's just amazing things that can't be accepted and that don't meet the standard of living, that don't match what can really be paid, and we don't have the right to tear down the Constitution of a guaranteed category and the Constitution guaranteed rights of citizens. That is why, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I call on the representatives of Mr Michael's party to vote against this law, because they cannot vote in favour (because the government cannot supplement it in the National Assembly) and of course accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, who will not and cannot fix this law at all, but will partially fix it, because it will be reduced as much as possible by these taxis. So we didn't cut taxis compared to the initial text of the law, you'll see it in our amendments, we even increased them by 100%, I guess I told you, so in the largest number of amendments, but not to increase by four thousand percent, as we have some amendments. That's what's unacceptable and that's what you can do right now. The only solution is, therefore, the withdrawal of the law from the procedure, the only legal solution, is to withdraw this act from the procedure or to accept amendments already available to the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13199	There's a word Mr. Michael. [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13200	First of all, I'd like to ask my colleagues -- if we're already quoting and paraphrasing, at least we're doing it credible. I also said that if the DSS doesn't withdraw the law from the procedure to do it in a work in which we think it should work, the government will vote against the law. Nothing is disputed here, because we believe that the changes that apply only to part of the increase in taxis are not the ones that are needed by our judiciary at the moment, in order to protect citizens' interests more effectively, and that is why we believe that this law should be done in that part. Of course, all funds, and according to a new bill, should go beyond the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This is also foreseen by our bill, because we believe the funds must go through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in order to have control and control over the spending of these funds. But what we insist on is that in advance, it is known that one percent of the fees paid will remain above all that court, it will be 60 or 50%, and the other 50% or 40%, or which percentage is defined by law, will be used for the work of those courts that cannot raise the funds themselves and for all other material costs in the ministry's work. That's our proposal, and we think that in that direction we should think about reforming at least this part of the court fees. I would only give one example -- when the judge was appointed, it was told to the court in Kovacica that the court was excellent, that the President of the Court was doing great, that he had arranged the court, and then we came to the data that he had arranged the court because he was a favorite in the Ministry of Justice, because he was transferred huge funds to make that court well arranged, and everything else, but that court doesn't have a lot of cases. On the other hand, we have a court in Panchev, where I'm from, which is buried in objects, where there's a lot of work, which isn't arranged like other courts, and that's that injustice that exists. So, we are in favour of finding a fair proposal, which would primarily refer to the distribution of these funds, taking into account where all these funds are collected, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to help those courts that have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija and other courts that cannot raise funds for work, so that all citizens can exercise a guaranteed right to protect their interest through courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13201	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, before the MPs take part in the debate, I will remind you of the time for a principle debate in accordance with Article 90. Rules of Procedure. The DOS parliamentary group - two hours and fourteen minutes, the DOS - DSS - 54 minutes, the SPS parliamentary group - 44 minutes, the SRS parliamentary group - 27 minutes, the SSJ parliamentary group - 16 minutes, the DOS parliamentary group - New Serbia - nine minutes, the DOS parliamentary group - the Vojvodina and SDP reformists - seven minutes and the DOS parliamentary group - PDS - six minutes. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing, with the following order, submitted by MPs Đuro Popovic, and the next reported for the word was Veroljub Arsic. Is MP Djuro Popovic present? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13202	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow MPs, I am, in all respects, staying in the positions of the Assembly Group of the Soviets, as well as with the amendments submitted and I add -- the legislator of this bill should have learned about the bad side of the application of the previous law by the previous government. Namely, the current fees have already proved to be too high for citizens, legal entities, and especially for pensioners, who are mostly social cases, and that, in the same taxes as never before in the history of the Serbian judiciary, the fees are never compensated, i.e. in court decisions, they do not claim legally tightened interest in favour of those who receive the dispute. The highest court decision fee, audit, from one economic dispute amounted to 150,000 dinars on 16 April 1997, and in the dinar equivalent of 41,660 marks. Today, in a litigation procedure, the party received only 5,000 marks, thus losing an equal of 36,660 marks, so that the party in the procedure can experience that the completely accused disappears from the records of the operators, bearing in mind that, according to current practice, litigation lasts even up to 20 years. So, this law was to be changed in full and the damaged person admitted to a given tax corresponding legally tightened interest from the day of payment of the court fee. Or better yet, to make the most quality solution, by which the court would choose a tax after its judicial and executive judgment. Only in this case would the citizens and all legal entities in Serbia have reason to seek the protection of their rights before the courts. How can poor and damaged citizens get the money to pay the proposed fees, which they, and when they are right, return in the said way, without tampering. I believe that the minimum amount of the value of the tax dispute should be 3,000 dinars, not 10,000 dinars, as proposed, for the reasons that certain legal entities, especially public utility, are prevented from charging their claims through the court, because these claims are outdated in a year. In these cases, practically, if the value of the dispute does not exceed 10,000 dinars, citizens do not have to pay for the service. For example, in the Becay municipality, it happened that the public utility had pushed the debt to the public with the help of the police patrol. It is about the intervention for billing in Bačka Gradište - a legally outdated claim was paid at the time. In fact, we are also asked to increase the fee under Article 39, heading 38, item 1 and 2, where "100 new" is replaced by "300" and as regards the proposal for the exception of judges. What to say about this taxi, if practically all the courts in Serbia have taken the view that they are not allowing the judge's exemption in the last five years. The proposal is purely cynicism compared to Serbian citizens and the withdrawal of money. That is why I propose to amend the Law on Prosecution first, Articles 71 and 73. Otherwise, if at least this member were deleted completely, as the judges had already suspended him in practice. Finally, just to remind me, not so long ago in the past regime, today's Justice Minister, Mr Vladan Batic, publicly protested against the height of the then applicable court taxis. Today, the loudest is that citizens and legal entities are increased rigorously in the name of court taxis. What kind of absurdity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13203	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and after him is the messenger of the people of Zivodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13204	In accordance with Article 82(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I doubt there is a quorum. It's a shame for me as a MP to speak in front of an O.R. that's not even half loaded.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13205	Please check, are you asking for a check or are you giving up your word? (Veroljub Arsic, from the place: I do not give up, first check the quorum. ) Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13206	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've come up with a legal proposal to increase the court's fees, and I don't think there's any basis. I'm just going to give you a classic example of how it's handled in a court procedure before the Economic Court for up to 5,000 dinars, to make it look new. So, the tax is 2,000 dinars, and in case the applicant doesn't pay a fee in time, he gets a notice, for which he has to pay a fine of 400 dinars. If he does not act on that warning, he should pay a fee of 2,000 dinars,400 dinars of fines and 1,000 dinars of fines, a total of 3,400 dinars. If the other party submits an objection, it should pay 1,000 dinars a fee on an objection, if it does not pay, another 400 dinars and another 500 dinars of fines, in total1. 900 dinars. So we've already reached the value of the dispute before the first and only hearing was held. The court ruling and the court proceedings are not closed with the payment of a court fee, they are not also closed with the jurisdiction of the court ruling, but with the execution of the judicial verdict.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13207	The People's Messenger, Dacin, has the word, and after it is the Messenger of the people, George Mamul.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13208	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People, this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes is a material that can actually be observed, analysed and commented multiplely. However, one thing is certain, and this is that the bill again imposes the burden on our citizens' pockets, and the other is that these funds are intended for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I'm looking differently at the situation on the one hand and on the other hand, and I have to say that I can't, and I don't accept the argument that our judiciary is in a difficult material situation, and probably at this point the state doesn't have any other way, but through these cabs, to improve this material situation. I would agree with this, and I would understand the level of these court fees, but provided that there is some judicial budget or some judicial subjugation within the framework of the Republic of Serbia's budget, where practically all those funds received from the court fees would go into that judicial budget and we would practically achieve more effects. Under a number, I think it would improve the modernisation of all cases, because practically directly the perpetrators themselves would affect the material position of the court itself, and also the personal material situation, and that would, in fact, be a step by step for me to get to an independent judiciary, which we especially like to talk about in the last year. However, there is still nothing from an independent judiciary in these circumstances. It would be nice if the proposer were there, but as usual he wasn't there, so as information he gave, let's say, what's the order of the amount of funds that the court fees make at the level of, let's say, one municipal court, so how much would that increase be by 4-10, or more times the court fees, so if a company were done, I believe it wouldn't be a minor asset. These funds could do one more thing, and we have seen that, after an emergency procedure, we will have a proposal to place people in the position of the president of various courts in order to really stop the burning of the political traffic light and to put people on fire depending on whether a single coalition party will turn on the green light of a political traffic light or the red light of a political traffic light, rather than simply pick people who were first proven by their work and experience in courts. So, as long as there is no material independence, we can't talk about an independent judiciary, and that's what we're all trying to do. Since the bill shows that all the funds go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, my question to the Proposer would be: will our judiciary get 4 - 10, and even 40 times more funds compared to the funds that have been allocated so far? I am sure that this will not happen and, therefore, our judiciary cannot continue to be independent, because it will be directly dependent on the executive authority whose mandate is also the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If there is no excuse, which I think would be absolutely logical, I really don't see that the objective that this bill had justified those high funds that were given in the proposal and therefore I believe that, from this point of view, the law did not meet expectations. On the other hand, we can look at the users of this bill, which is exactly what we all are, and that's exactly all of our citizens of Serbia, who, because of such high court fees, will certainly be disabled, because of the, unfortunately, low standard and momentarily poor economic situation, that they are solving in courts something that I am simply living as a forced, such as buying, we have heard divorce litigation, let's say some legacy and so forth. Practically with these court fees, we're moving justice away from our citizens. The reason behind this law states: "Novelment of the law proposes a proportionate increase in taxis, i.e. the harmonisation of taxis with changed economic circumstances, with growth in earnings and prices and with other factors that have a significant impact on the cost of court work." I'm a little confused by what a new economic situation is, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our Governor of the National Bank claim that the dinar has never been more stable than it is now, and why the increase in these taxis up to 10 times. Secondly, it is said to be harmonising with profit growth. We certainly know that the standard of our workers, our citizens, has not been improved compared to last year of 2-10 times. If you don't believe me, please look at and compare your pockets, and I'll tell you that I did it as a health care professional, as a specialist in medical biochemistry: my salary in September of 2000 was 6,120,12 dinars, and in September of this year 10,785.73 dinars. Which means it's only increased by 76.23%. Therefore, there is absolutely no reason to reason. The only thing I could accept is this third one, that it's in line with the rise in prices, but unfortunately our official statistics say from month to month that the consumer basket is really growing enormously. If no one, in practice, adopts this law and votes for, will get nothing -- there will be no improvement in the material position of court employees, nor will the conditions of the work of the people in the courts be improved, nor will our citizens be satisfied, and I understand that these court fees really need to be increased -- here I am making one concrete proposal, which is that practically the court fees will be increased by a percentage of the growth rate, let's say, earnings in health, which is 76.23%. Please, I really have to say this, we should stop making Western prices and Western laws. Not because I'm against it, on the contrary. But first, I would like conditions to be created if our citizens had a Western standard and then there would really be a lot less talk and a price height, at this point in court taxis, and all the other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13209	The People's Messenger George Mamula has the word, and then Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13210	The proposed changes have no analysis of the inflow of taxis into Serbia's budget, and without it we cannot discuss more seriously the proposed changes -- what was the rate of charge in the last few years, what was the basis for the tax charge, how much was charged by the forced way -- so that only then, on that basis, we get a proposal to amend the Tax Tax Act. In this way, the position of judicial employees cannot be significantly improved. First of all, the Payments Act itself determines how the payout of all employees is done, so it would be necessary, when it comes to improving the position of judicial employees, that they too have a special law by which they would receive. At this point, I believe that the employees of the judiciary, including the police, would not be able to share the fate of many employees, but would have to be paid much better. As for the structure of the tax liabilities, I think it should be changed, more detailed. In addition, it is not clear why tax fees are proposed in the first place, when payment through almost money is more effective, and this would better contribute to a larger flow of money into Serbia's budget. In addition, in order to reduce pressure on courts, it is necessary to reorganise Serbia's judiciary. It is necessary to form new types of courts, but above all to improve the material position of employees, because this will reduce the inflow of the lawsuit, or pressure on the courts, because then judges will work more effectively because they will be materially stimulated. Of course, it should be kept in mind that when it comes to court fees, the appropriate part of the inflow goes to the prosecution and the D.A.'s office, that they are not neglected as part of the judiciary. I therefore believe that amendments may be reduced by the tax obligations proposed in this law, but there can be no significant changes to this law, which should not be accepted as proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13211	The word has a folk MP, Zivko Selaković, and then Branislav Blažic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to speak as briefly as possible, because during the time we have and cannot speak any longer. We know that the state lives on various taxes and other taxes from citizens. One type of tax and taxes are also court fees, which is now on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees. No one's saying that our judiciary is well-being, I mean finance, but increasing these taxis certainly can't improve the efficiency of the work of the judicial authorities. The government of the Republic of Serbia is enormously increasing taxes, some 100%, some 200%, and there are such proposals that taxes increase 300% and 400%, even more than that, up to 70 times. We know that people are mostly tried for property. There is a very high value of the dispute, so the taxes reach an even amount of 15,000 dinars, 25,000 and 50,000 dinars, and more than that, if the percentage that follows these figures is added. There are cases that taxes are higher than citizens will make their claims with the judicial authorities. Due to high taxis, citizens will not be allowed to seek even the exception of judges, the president of a larger court or court, which is a very common phenomenon in our judiciary, not to mention, there are a lot of such cases. In this regard, given that citizens have already again been burdened with various duties, the Serbian Unity Party parliamentary group will not accept such a proposal, as accepting such a bill would lead citizens into an even more difficult material position, and we know that they would then have to give up very important disputes that require their rights to be exercised through the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13213	The word is given by MP Branislav Blažić and then by Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13214	Ladies and gentlemen, given one minute and five seconds, as far as I have to consider this problem, very little can be said, except that this is another way of robbing the government of its citizens, increasing taxes by several hundred or several thousand times, without any good reason. And the explanation that the increase in taxis follows the rise absolutely does not stand. It's just another drag in the citizens' pockets by the government. The government is acting like a woman. You can't hope for her. She can spend it all. She introduced many taxes that were not and yet to introduce air tax and to compose the whole story. But the story goes, "it's for starters," as Mujo said, "not bad for a start," when he got stabbed, so this government warns its citizens that it's a start. But probably, when it comes to this government, it will be the end of it, the way it was at Moya's. So there's no reason to accept something like this and this government has cheeks... I have to hang up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13215	The word is made by MP Zoran D. Nikolic and then by Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13216	I belong to a group of MPs who, with their vote, will not support this bill because of an assessment that it is not suitable for the current, economic and social moment. We believe that the level of taxis and the increase in taxis that are proposed by this law is incompatible with the economic position of citizens and businesses, so all those who exercise rights in front of courts, and that is the basic reason why we will not support this. I would like to say this: when it was introduced, after harmonising with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a new system of court taxis, our theory and practice was faced with a dilemma about the legal character and nature of the court taxis. That's what's in the world. The difference is between two concepts. Whether the court fee is a fee for the costs that the judicial authority had in the course of proceedings in a particular judicial matter, which is the concept which is approximately accepted in our legislation, or the court fee should express the equivalent for the benefit, i.e. the value that the party receives by means of a judicial authority. It's two completely different approaches. It's present in the French concept of court taxis. For example, court proceedings in one case, such as the debate of the legacy, if the second concept is accepted, if more successors and the legacy is small, may require greater work of the judicial authority, and if one heir and legacy is large, the tax will also be enormously large, although the judicial authority had significantly less work and efforts to realise the dispute. It seems to me that by this increase we deviate from this concept, that the tax cost that the body objectively has to handle in a particular case and we are approaching this concept that the tax is equivalent or equivalent to what the party gets through the work of the judicial authority. I don't think this economic moment in which we now live as a state is suitable for changing that system and that concept, but that we should think about it, of course we should. In that sense, I think that the government's proposal to make a proportionate increase in taxis, i.e. bringing them in line with changed economic circumstances, rather suggests that they should remain as they are at their height or that they are potentially reduced, and in no way points to the conclusion that they need to be increased. With a theory to move on to a few practical examples. First of all, one small controversy with a colleague, Vukic, who presented a data that seems to me to be not a good interpretation of this proposal for amending the law. He said that the court tax, for example, will amount to 25,000 dinars for divorce disputes. That's not true. Article 27 stipulates that the value of the dispute, for the sake of the charge, will be set at 25,000 dinars in these disputes. The amount of the tax shall be determined in heading 1. It says that for the value of 10 to 1 000 dinars, the tax will be 1,000 dinars, increased by 4% of the value of the slow, and 4% of the 25,000 is another 1,000 dinars. So the divorce lawsuit will be 2,000 dinars. This increase is not small, because so far, according to an existing law that is still in force, the tax on divorce suit was 100 dinars. So here we have one 20-fold increase, which I certainly don't justify. Here I agree with my colleague Vukic, that 20 times the tax increase in this case is really a lot. I would refer to another tariff number, related to the exercise of the right to sue, to appeal or to an appeal brought before commercial courts. In this heading, it is said that for the value of disputes over 10 million dinars of tax will be 128,000 dinars, increased by 0.5% of the value of the dispute, maximum of 200,000 dinars. All those who were dealing with both the economy and the judiciary know that the existing solution, the maximum tax of 50,000 dinars, limited many economic operators to the inability to pay that tax, earning someone their right to an economic court. If we take into account everything that follows and for the last year, which is the recession, the decline in economic production, the increase in the number of economic operators that owe each other, and more and more, this growth of four times, meaning, a tax increase of 200,000 dinars, will objectively deter many economic operators from thinking that they are exercising their right before the court. It is known that trustees, i.e. those to whom they owe, tried in various ways in economic life to achieve their right to do so, so when they failed, they should single out 50-200,000 dinars for that value of the dispute, in order to just engage in a uncertain judicial process and collect a certain claim. I think that the amount of tax is an extremely inappropriate moment in which our economy is located. Due to this example, and numerous examples of other MPs, I believe that at this point it is more appropriate to keep an existing solution, and let the government define one of these two concepts that I was talking about, so that in a comprehensive manner it comes before this Parliament to get support. Otherwise, I think this law should in principle be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13217	The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, followed by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I expected that for this speaker today there would be one of the MPs who would at least say a few words in favour of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. The assessment of everyone who's ever been behind a pay phone is against this bill, so I'm uncomfortable attacking a proposal against whom everyone is. But I have to. This bill of amendments and additions of court taxis has been completely missed. From the reasoning of the Bill's proposal, we see that the last amendment to this law on court fees was in April 1997. At that time, the court fees set out in that law were inadequate and high. My assessment, and the assessment of most people who participated in any way, i.e. who participated in the judiciary, is that only today are the real amounts of court fees that were given in April 1997. So, at this point, according to my assessment, there's no need to make any changes and additions to this law at all. This is precisely because in April 1997, the law, which was brought here at this very moment, became about this time the real amounts found in it. I have to point out that I don't understand enough the government's behaviour and the D.O.D. It is true that funds are needed for the work of the judiciary, that funds are also needed to fill the budget. However, on the other hand, we have one very serious area, the area of justice, which is, that is, a general assessment of all, insufficiently arranged, i.e. there are a number of problems that need to be overly resolved, starting with the position of the judiciary and judges in courts, basically through their material situation, the independence of the work and efficiency of the courts, and to the change of the essential system laws which regulate this judiciary. So my assessment and claim is that it is necessary and necessary to regulate the work of the judiciary and its appointment on the principle of judicial independence, as well as the regulation of other system laws and the requirements of the judiciary, and then decide to increase the court fees. I'd like to join Mr. Mamula's evaluations that he said that at this point we're discussing something we don't have the information for. We have no record of how much in previous years and this year has been charged by these court fees, how this fee has been made, in which percentages are forced, and where voluntary from the parties, in order to know the fact that these fees are involved in the financing of courts, particularly the salaries and material costs of courts, to see if this is an important item in the budget that is foreseen for courts. On the other hand, the main problem is that courts are completely on the state budget, without being able to have their own private accounts on the basis of which they would be interested in more efficient and successful payment of the court fee, because they would also have greater independence and the possibility of regulating their actions. The basic independence of the judiciary can only be achieved when the judiciary is partially, if not entirely, independent of the executive authority. I therefore believe that increasing the court's fee to this law on amendments and additions to court fees is not a fundamental problem for the judiciary or the judiciary. There are other problems whose resolution is necessary and urgent, as a problem with the adoption of procedural laws. Above all, there are only three laws, which are a law on litigation, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the Law on Executive Procedure, which is a sad law, a law that allows these disputes, or proceedings to be conducted, to the point of uncertainty. In property-legal disputes, it is not uncommon for litigation to be conducted for 10-20 years. It implies another problem, where the prosecutor pays a fee over 20 years, in the executive procedure tries to pay that tax that has been practically deleted due to various procedures. How many disputes are being fought here, and the tax is being paid in dinars from ten years ago that were the oldest! When you translate that into these current dinars, that's zero. So the prosecutor paid a tax on the current value of a million dinars, and in that time he paid 10-20 or 100 marks of court fees. Another problem arises, the problem of ineffectiveness of the courts, i.e. ineffectiveness of the entire justice system. These are procedural laws that prevent these disputes, especially property, even in criminal proceedings, practically, to fatigue. On the other hand, it is necessary to change one domain, and this is a change of law within the framework of material law. Above all, there was one law that the government proposed, and then withdrew, these are amendments to the Criminal Law. Also, no one discusses or discusses amendments to the Bond Act or the Law on property - legal relations, etc. Also, it's very important to amend those laws that have run out of time. These laws of ours are tens of years ago, and we are not going into the fact that the social process and material development have gone far beyond those laws, so now we have an area of computer or high technology that is not covered by any legal provision. Since it's a topic for some other bill, I wouldn't talk about it anymore. The fundamental problem with the judiciary is the financing of courts. We don't know at this point what amount, how many court fees are involved in the financing of courts. The government says in an explanation that by increasing court fees (which are unjustly high, you have heard how many times and how many thousands of percent are concerned) it wants citizens to be directed to settle disputes in a non-judicial way. I'd like to ask you a question - what are the extrajudicial routes? Is it a reference to citizens being forced, threatened, or purely physical, to settle their disputes? Is it possible to settle out-of-court disputes when, in principle, citizens, who should be parties to the court, unequal, were physically, were economic, which is much more important. What is the authority behind this extrajudicial settlement, or settlement of disputes by means of an extrajudicial route? This directly means that citizens, unable to pay such an increased court fee, will seek to settle all disputes outside the court, outside the state authorities, on the street or under some ordinary law, with a purely applied physical force, which we have in one period (which is not so long behind us) also had through debt relief agencies. Whether the legislator wants our judiciary, i.e. dispute resolution, to develop in this direction and on these principles, or on the principle of the right of any citizen of this country who gives not only taxes, but also fulfils all its obligations; on the other hand, the state is obliged to resolve disputes between citizens effectively and adequately. Under that criterion, an unwarranted increase in court taxis is now. On the other hand, I see that the underlying problem, i.e. the government's fundamental interest in proposing a new law, was - more money in the budget. Is that the basic problem of the Serbian state? It is a problem, but there may have been some promises about the efficiency of reducing the administration, etc.? I think the most serious problem for all of us, both parliament and government, is that the new system law offices are being applied in the country and that it goes through the democratisation and development of society, I have to mention, especially by reviving the economy. In the case of one court (I don't know, in the Belgrade judiciary, everyone is rich, so there is no need to pay court fees, so increased) I'm telling you that in courts in the interior it's not so easy to pay a fee for which it is not known whether it will be compensated. For example, the Bosilegrad court is a small court, in one environment with the majority of the Bulgarian population, for the court to rule on its proposal (which is once again not the subject of this, but I must just increase the costs of these citizens to mention it), according to this proposal, the law plans to abolish these courts, i.e. to attach them to the crow court. The citizens of Bosilegrad have to get on a bus and travel about 150 kilometers, even in winter time, you know across the Vlassin Lake to Vranj, to lead some dispute that may be of little value. The municipality is one of the poorest and the property the citizens possess is extremely small, so the value of the dispute is low. This is why the DSS, which is under the following agenda points, suggested that, in the light of the proposal, not only in Bosilegrad, but also in other courts with which it is the case, they remain in those places, that their abolition is ineffective precisely because of the property situation of citizens, as well as the increased transport costs. It's ineffective, it's counterproductive to remove any vessels. I believe, and my opinion coincides with the opinion of the DSS Parliament Club, that it is necessary for the government to withdraw the draft of this law from the procedure, we need it to give us the laws that are essential for the functioning of the judiciary and the establishment of an independent judiciary. If there is no withdrawal of this law, we will be against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13219	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know who we're talking to today, when the legislator of this law isn't present in this room to explain to us why he suggested such prices when it comes to court fees. If the Committee on Justice, which has 15 members, and of the 15 members of the three members are from the opposition and 12 members from the DOS, these are all lawyers and experts, rejected the bill, I believe that the Assembly should have removed this item from the agenda. Furthermore, I don't know what the elements used by the government to raise certain taxes a thousand percent, four thousand percent, if we remind ourselves that in 1993 we had the same case? So this government returns us back in 1993. We know that before October 5th, the mark course was 38 dinars, today it's a 30 dinar mark. We know the government says she didn't print the money. What are the elements for such a drastic increase in taxi prices? Also, gentlemen, we could tolerate it while this government increased individual prices by 450%, such as the price of 16 dinars to 72 dinars, the price of electricity by 300 percent, and for individual consumers, those who enter red, and 500 percent. This government today proposes that individual taxes be paid a thousand percent more than the day after the day after you adopt the bill, and 4,000 percent more. Someone from the government said that some of the funds remain in that court, that is, in that city where the process is being conducted. He who pays doesn't care where those funds stay. Someone also said we should get this law back, that the government is doing this law -- well, this law can't be done, and the prices proposed by the government must be reduced by at least 80%, gentlemen. Also, in Article 5, as the government has done so so far, a direct blow to the poorest population is particularly to peasants. According to Article 5, if certain disputes are carried out that do not have an estimated value, a peasant, if one has passed through the field, must pay a court fee of two thousand dinars. It has gone beyond the gift and measure, and I don't think the citizens of Serbia and the peasants can tolerate this anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13221	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13222	The last increase in the court fees was in 1997, late 1997, and that level of court fees was at the limit of tolerance. But what the government is proposing now can be said to be insane: the government is proposing that taxes increase from 400% to 4,000%. Please, if you look at the level of personal income, pay actually, in this country and compare this increase in court fees -- so that's really insane. I would understand that this is what the government does if there is a legal possibility to improve the material position of the judiciary, that these are the original revenues of the courts, however, this legal possibility does not exist. And practically, the government is just "grabbing" this way for the republican budget. However, I would warn you that these birds of predators from the Republic government will not increase the budget on this basis. Let's just take an example of this savage liberalisation -- prices went to heaven, however, the physical volume in retail facilities, in commercial buildings fell. The store had a thousand dinars a year ago, so there's a thousand dinars of traffic, and now there's a thousand dinars of traffic. I'm interested in what kind of economic argument this is? If the government claims the inflation level is 35% and increases court fees 4000%, what experts have suggested this? I'm sorry, Mr. President, I overstepped 11 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13223	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13224	The Honorable Chairman, members of the Government in a permanent absence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today in the assembly procedure the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes. According to what was proposed, it would be more appropriate for the title to appear -- an increase in court fees from 300 to 1,000%, or three to 10 times. No member of the law has been changed, but the rate of the tax has changed, multiple times. In this case, it looks like this - in points 2, 3, 5, 7, 8 and 11 of the word "500 new" is replaced by "5,000"; in points 4, 9 and 10 of the words "2,500" are replaced by "25,000", and so on, which means that taxes are increased 10 times. It is seen from the above that this is an amendment to the law on economic grounds and that this is another attempt to complement the budget. It seems that the changes to the law so far and the tax hike were not enough, so other opportunities were found to put our hands in the pockets of citizens deeper. The proposal to increase court fees can also tell citizens - who have no money, has no right. By adopting such a proposal, by increasing taxis from three to ten times, we will deny citizens the right to exercise their right to court. And when a citizen is right, and there's no money for high taxes, he'll have to give up running a court dispute. Where's the justice? Is this the rule of law promised in the election campaign by the current justice minister, Mr Batic? If on TV every night Dinkic shows up and keeps saying that the dinar is stable and that there is no inflation, why do we propose this kind of increase, which means that someone is telling the truth that the dinar is stable and that the court fees are exceeded. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of our citizens, I ask you not to vote in favour of such high court fees, and when, in the retrial procedure, the Government agrees with the citizen's incomes, then let us vote in favour of such a proposal. I'm asking for this for the citizens, regardless of who they voted for, because high court fees will not be paid only by those who voted in favour of the Socialists, the Radicals and the SS. High court fees will also be paid by your voters, i.e. all citizens of Serbia who demand to exercise their right to court. It is probably our government, which is obliged to attend these congregations, that it defends such high taxes and that is why they are not present today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13225	I give my word to the MP Dushan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13226	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't stick to the criticism. I must say right away - I accept them to the greatest extent, especially I accept the criticism given by my colleague Mamula, that criticism is constantly standing, because there is no analysis of the inflow of taxis. In order for this to be decided, it was necessary. That's one thing. The second thing is, a colleague of Cvetkovic is right when he says that such fees will make citizens re-enact their claims by illegal means, and we know well that the charging technique, which is not good in Serbia, has taken a lot of weight. However, before I say a few more objections, I want to say the main one: this really doesn't make any sense from the government. We have before us a bill of law and someone from the government had to come here and tell us the reasons, a team before we discussed it on the Justice Committee, brought out counterarguments, and now none of the Government is coming here to tell us. It's an insult to the National Assembly. This really can't be done. Someone had to come, a team before most of these problems were even made on the Justice Committee. We didn't get an answer as MPs, we deserve it and there's no dilemma. The other thing, the previous speakers, criticizing, forgot one fact, and I'm going to point it out. Namely, by adopting amendments to this law in 1997, the amount was enormous at the time, and it was so elegant that in 1997, the vast majority of citizens could not pay them. There's another thing about business courts. Commercial courts have received a complaint, a lawsuit or a proposal to execute, they send an immediate solution to the competent bank to remove the amount to be paid for the fee. And then the amount in the commercial courts was way too big. I'll allow it, I'm sure there's a small fee in some things today. But first of all, it would be good to go selectively, not to increase everything without measure. It could have been, for example, and I would have accepted that, in the case of sales contracts, if it was a big price, okay, the state should take its share. But this is how it went without measure, and we are already coming to that border that cannot be crossed, and that is the limit when it comes to human rights. We will make it impossible for the widest layers to use their rights, to address the court, and to obtain in court what is denied. That's one big problem. Furthermore, today this tax, if looked at in economic disputes and in some civil disputes, is entirely adequate. This is precisely because in 1997 it was more affected than could then be tolerated. There's one more thing: courts have released a lot, and earlier they've freed more of taxis from that party that addresses it with the proper belief that it's without property, that it's a small pension, that it supports more members of the household. However, I can responsibly argue that the release from tax lately, especially in the last few years, has become an exception. That's why I said that this increase, in my opinion, is enormous and a blow to the citizens, that is, a blow to the exercise of their rights. Therefore, this is another reason why the DSS Justice Committee did not vote in favour of this law, and so it will be now. We, for all these reasons, cannot accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13227	I give my word to the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13228	I'd like to use my right to discuss it, and then I'd suggest something to you, I think it's in the spirit of everything that's been said here, and I hope you'll have an understanding of that, whether you're representatives of the opposition or the authorities. I'd like to try to make a brief analysis of what this agenda point had as its essential intensity before that proposal. In fact, we cannot ignore the fact that all, either as today's government or as today's opposition, were active in creating the environment from which this law came into force. The SPS, as a party in power, last amended the 1997 Law on judicial fees. If we do an analysis, you'll see that, to the greatest extent, it's practically an increase due to inflation from the previous four years. So last year alone was 120%. If we recalculate the exchange rate, the real one, not the official one, 1997 and this one today, you'll also see that it's also practically the same effort to ensure that courts are financed to the extent possible by the charge of what is the court's job. We have a major problem in the area of justice, he is human beings, he stemmed from the fact that the legislation governing this segment of our social life has been overcome, but we also have a problem with the financing of courts. When we criticise someone that he's incapable of dealing with corruption, then we can't tie their hands when he's trying to open up the possibility of working to and living off his work. I agree that it is a huge remark on the basis of which the fate of this law is at stake, since there is no technology to be seen that will be spent on the means provided by the application of this law. But the government is ready, and in the meantime, consultations have been done, so that sublaws can handle it because it's not possible otherwise. At this point, something like this is not possible and it has not been a practice until now. It's hard to put it into practice. As for the very height of the taxi, which is a serious burden for anyone who thinks to take some action before the court, I believe the opposition has the right to take every opportunity to criticise something like that. But those who are part of the ruling coalition and who sat in the Justice Ministry on July 23rd as representatives of the DSS, who had a deputy minister, have no right to now point fingers at us who have enough dignity to say that the courts need to provide funds. At the same time, we believe that this law needs to be further consulted both with parliamentary groups and with the government, and they do not have the right to make political profit on a subject that in itself does not make sense, because it was not a scrupulous one. So when you say the tax is high, then you secure the courts from some other source of resources, and those other sources don't exist today. So my concrete proposal is that we now take a break in this work and continue at 15.00 hours, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to carry out consultations with the Government, in the meantime, to provide concrete answers and then to see what we are at large. But I don't think this is a topic that the DOS at least could be in a dispute, given that this stemmed from the joint activity of the entire DOS on July 23rd. I ask the Parliament to make a statement about taking a break by 15.00 hours, to conduct consultations, in the meantime, to find a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13229	In accordance with Article 95(2), which says that the President of the National Assembly can set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion, I set a break of up to 15.00 hours. Therefore, the National Assembly does not need to make a statement about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-24-0.u13230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I find that we have a quorum to continue the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you that the National Assembly received the letter from the Ministry of Justice and local self-government, or from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as follows: "According to Article 141. I am withdrawing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from the procedure of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes. The bill is withdrawn until a new law on the organisation and operation of courts, since it is directly related to the subject matter of the law, in which the financing of the work of courts is arranged. "I find that the motionor has withdrawn the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on judicial fees. We should now move to the third item of the agenda, however, at this point we have neither the opinion of the parent board nor the opinion of the government. I am informing the Assembly that things are standing, and this is what the Assembly will declare. So we have no opinion or committees, no opinion or government of the Republic of Serbia. We have talks tomorrow with union representatives, and there will be significant changes in that part. That's why I'm proposing, and of course we'll hear if there are any other suggestions, to continue the session Tuesday at 10.00 hours. It's, in addition to consulting the board presidents, some real time in which these proposals can be processed. There are no other proposals and I ask the Members of Parliament to make this proposal known. For 118, against two, abstentions of 25, did not vote 28, a total of 173. I find that the National Assembly has decided to continue the session at 10.00 p.m. on Tuesday. I would like to inform you that the session of the Transport and Connection Committee, which was scheduled to be held on Thursday, October 25th, was postponed on Monday, October 29th, starting at 10:30 p.m. The session of the Legislative Committee will be held on Monday, October 29th, starting at 12:00 p.m. We'll continue and see you Tuesday at 10.00 hours. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 148 MPs attend today's session. Please confirm the quorum. I find there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Višnja Nežić, Milos Radivojčević, Borisvoje Drakulović, Miroslav Markicevic, Mihajlo Marković, Nebojsa Leković, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Ratimir Svirčević, Goran Ćirić, Radomir Naumov, Slavoljub Matić, Bojan Kostreš, Vladan Jovičić and Dusan Budišin. Only in the morning is the absence of Pal Shandor and Veselin Jankovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Before we move to the third item of the agenda, we will conduct a joint review of the draft laws tabled by MP Dejan Mihajlov (points 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda). Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that there is a session of the Justice and Administration Committee, which is not finished. By the end of her work, according to the latest information, it will take another half hour, so I would give a break, to wait for the Committee to finish work and continue the session at 11.40 p.m.
