ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4116	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to speak first in today's session and to welcome you all together on behalf of the SPS and to wish us all a successful work. I will give the contribution of the work in such a way as to explain my amendment very briefly. Article 13. The property law, as you've seen, belongs to a part of the law that's named as tax credits. Article 13(1) states that "the tax on the rights laid down in Article 2 of this Act on a building or apartment in which it resides is reduced to 40% for the obligor, and by 10% for each member of its household, and the highest 70 % for the tax established". With my amendment, I proposed that amendments be made to Article 13(2), so it should read: the tax on the right of Article 2 of this Act to the building or apartment, in which the obligor is resident, be reduced by 50% for the obligor and by 10% for each member of his household, and up to 75% for the established tax. You noticed, therefore, that I suggested that the base of the tax credit and the reduction for the debtor be increased from 40 to 50 and that the total exemption be instead of 70%.75%. Why? Every obligor carries with him 50% tax exemption. The next member, for example the wife 10%, is 60%, one member of the household 10%, and I suggested that the fourth member bear 10%, so the total release is 75%. Since Mr Djelic is constantly insisting on justice, reality, I think this solution is more just, more correct, more realistic and transparent, if it could be applied. And more honestly, as Comrade Marjanski says. After all, it applies, ladies and gentlemen, to all of you MPs, so keep that in mind. The only thing I don't know is that Mr. Djelic doesn't mind if he's not concerned with this because he doesn't live in Serbia, so he might have suggested it for that. I call upon you earlier to accept this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4117	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 57, against 111, one abstention, 15 did not vote, 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I wanted to stop the increase in tax rates and the greater taxation of citizens than it was during the previous government. As a farmer now has to pay 2% of his taxes on annual income, and he paid 1.5%, so by Article 13. so far, the taxpayer, who lives in his building or apartment, has been carrying 50% tax cuts. Now the government is proposing 40% tax cuts. For each household member, there was another 10% reduction in taxes, up to 70% of tax cuts. It was considered quite acceptable for the power of our taxpayers. Suddenly comes the government that says that our taxpayers have a much stronger power than she knew and could find the previous government, so they say, now 40% for a taxpayer and 10% for a member of the household, and so we went down 10%, as it was during the previous, very bad government, the authorities that made the citizens sick, took everything from them. We have come to only 70% tax cuts from a good, new democratic government that cares about citizens. That's attitude one. In attitude two, they installed it in an apartment where a family member lives. Now the government is going even more rigorously. It offers 10% relief for each member of the household and a total relief of up to 30% of the established tax. That ex-government, non-democratic, robbery, predicted a relief of up to 80%. Well, when new tax checks arrive, Mr. Minister, whose stories are true for this pay phone. Had it not been for our persistent insistence on reading the two texts of the Property Act in parallel, and had it not been for our insistence on an uninterrupted date for a pay phone and persuading Serbian citizens of what is changing, the citizens of Serbia would not have known what it was about. This way, we are full of letters and calls in which citizens admit that only thanks to this assembly speaker knows what is waiting for them, and they know who is lying and who is looking for political points here, and who is struggling to maintain power and who is struggling to return to power, but they also know what tax obligations await them on the day of entry into force of this law. I haven't even gone that far with the amendments. If I were to just offer you the previous law -- and I made it easy to 70 percent for apartment owners living in apartments and houses, up to 50% for household members living in apartments and houses, but whatever I wrote, Mr. Minister, the government would be deaf and gone. The government, in turn, has come up with how much it needs to take and won't give it up. I'll have to, every time I go out for this pay phone, repeat one sentence: this is nice, but you have no one to charge from.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this article of the Property Tax Act, it is evident that DOS authorities are enormously increasing taxes and reducing tax incentives for the most vulnerable categories of the population. And here to keep some tax reliefs, significantly reduced, imposes restrictions that are opposed to the official push of some DOS leaders to increase the birth rate. Instead of earlier 10%, the tax is now reduced by 40% for the holder of the right to own a residential property and for each household member 10%, but it is understood that it can be up to three more members of the household. So husband, wife and two children. Where's the effort to increase the birth rate? Instead of saying, for every household member, 10% to the total amount of tax, and a family who has five children not to pay taxes at all. That would be pretty stimulating in this case. In fact, they limit the number of family household members to a total of four: husband, wife, and two children. If there's more grandparents, then children can't have, not at all. It's the nature of this DOS government. Next, what taxes did you make when you taxed everything and everything? Why didn't you do a good-will cut here so that you completely abolished taxes on apartments and houses up to 60 square meters. In apartments and houses up to 60 m2 only poor people live, people who barely make ends meet, people whose family incomes are not enough for a basic consumer basket either. You're taxing them for a roof over their heads and nothing else. There's no luxury, there's nothing that's beyond daily need, there's nothing that's worth taxing. But you also want black under your fingernails to kidnap people. Why don't you show now that your government wants an increase in birthrights? Why don't you now accept this amendment and the next amendment of Milorad Mircic, to every member of the household 10%, so that husband and wife who have five children don't pay any taxes on the apartment, or, if their parents still live in that apartment, and each of their parents by 10%. (From the messenger's bench, the messenger of the people, Milka Marinkovic, said, "And that it may be paid to them." And to make it worth their while, if they have five kids, sure. That's what you're up for in the election campaign, and now you're making fun of it. You stood up for birth and you couldn't live from your pawnage. You will give birth to Serbia. Malten, you're going from house to house to make babies. Now, in tax laws, you kill people and the idea of having more children. That's the essence of your policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4120	Anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting Mr Nikolic's amendment to the vote. For 58, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 193 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4121	By refusing amendments proposed by Tomislav Nikolic and SRS MPs, the government proves once again Mr. Pavlovic, don't throw it away. [[Throwing it out of the bench.]] Who did you look up to? Don't interrupt me, Mr. Pavlovic. These are your manners you acquired while you were a co-worker of Covic. Leave those manners alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4122	Please don't throw each other away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4123	Thank you, President, for warning him. This is one in a series of evidence that the government does not want to accept any single amendment proposed by the SRS MPs. Of course, the government's position can be defended by the fact, as the minister presents it to us, if it weren't great expenditures, so the comparisons, for the sake of comparison, would be at a monthly level below a hell of a cigarette. So the family would take so much money to set aside a month to pay, possibly, this tax. However, the minister is losing sight of that one average family in Serbia, can't spare that much money, especially after this electricity collection, following the collection of utility services, after the phone has been collected. There's no family that can set aside any money. It is common to defend itself in another way by accusing the opposition with arguments - it is easy for you to suggest that this income side be abolished, but how do we finance that spending side, if you as an opposition, especially we Serbian radicals suggest abolishing, or reducing this part of the tax. Here's a concrete proposal: this difference that would eventually arise, if the government were to show good faith to make even greater relief to an average family, that difference could also be compensated by some out-of-budger means. We heard a statement, more specifically from a man who is constantly employed at the Ministry of the Interior, and now has been temporarily deployed to the post of Deputy Prime Minister, which is Dusan Mihajlovic, that they have come to the evidence that they once gave 900 thousand marks to Jovi Glamocanin, Milorad Crnjanin and all others who had the task, Miroslav Jankovic, Golubovic, who will remember them all, are marginalists. Nine hundred thousand marks, you must admit, is not a small amount of money to make it so easy for me or to end up in a statement by the Home Secretary. Well, let those nine hundred thousand marks return, which would be normal, and not only to cover this deficit or the budget gap, but to be a reminder to all those who are now using similar methods to break the Serbian Radical Party in such a way, including Prime Minister Batic, who has terrible arguments when opposed to the opposition. He comes out right away with papers and shows who's driving, who's eating. (President: Mr. Mircic, it's been three and a half minutes, I ask you to move on. President, you noticed that I never mentioned that check again. So there's no reason to shut me down. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: What check? ) What Milo Djukanovic is looking for is his share, which Kostunica has won. He gave it to Serbia, and he didn't give it to Montenegro. I suppose you do, Mr. Seselj. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: What is President Kostunica? I guess Yugoslavia. (President: Discuss this on your Executive Board of the Serbian Radical Party. Mr. Mircic, please stick to the agenda. It's not a problem. We'll stick to the agenda. So, it would be good if all these funds, which at that time the state and the ruling party spent on breaking the Serbian Radical Party, bribing individual members, were to join the budget and as out-of- budget funds to cover any difference that arises by reducing or giving some tax reliefs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4124	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 60, against 126 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 but, as I have seen before, it is almost identical with the amendments of my predecessors from three opposition parties. What does that mean? It means that in the opposition, however, we constructively approach the examination of every law and we come to, about one conclusion that it is not good when it comes to our citizens. In Article 13(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: The bill, it says, replaces the word "70% tops", with "80% tops". That's the text of my amendment. With this, I'd like to give an explanation. The proposed solution in the amendment allows a family with five members to have a relief, i.e. credit. Otherwise, a family with multiple members would be put in a more unfavourable position than a family with less than five members. In this regard, I would like to point out that in the previous law, such a solution was provided for in the provisions of Article 12(1) of the applicable Property Tax Act, which is why this solution should not be changed. In order to simplify a little more, the earlier law provided for a 50 percent relief to the taxpayer. The new bill removes this to 40%, to add 10% of the relief for each household member afterwards. So maybe three other members were added, actually two, considering they were taken off from 50 to 40. So, for two members of the household, it's a relief. As usual, the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, when it comes to birth and the white plague, has always sought to help, i.e. to help this fall of birth. So this time we're also trying to make it easier to replace that base from 70% to 80%. And to add something else, it's a terrible thing to my eyes, or it's my eyes -- why in this new calling, and especially this DOS government that's been making pre-election promises to the citizens that it's going to be for everything that's in the interest of the citizens, why this time in every bill, they're not going to keep what's good. For God's sake, let's not throw it all away, and what was good, just so it doesn't turn out these predecessors of ours were doing something and they knew they were doing it. So, once again, I am trying to ask this parliament, when it comes to what my predecessors have said, Natalie, to adopt this increase, or make it easier, even if it should be up to 80%. Believe me, if we go further with this kind of intrusion, instead of the white plague, we'll get hit by black cholera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4126	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4127	I just want to point out two facts. Some of the predecessors were talking about a terrible attack by our citizens, and in the same wave they were talking about that we can't defend ourselves with that it's not big amounts of money. Given the economic situation of our country, our economy and our inhabitants, it certainly matters. But some of the predecessors were just trying to... I'd like to give you a few facts about what this tax really is, with this depreciation as it is proposed to you today. In fact, I'd like to give some examples from the village, see what that looks like. If you take for example. One village - Klenje, the municipality of Bogatic, for a 100 square-square house with 55% depreciation, so it's about 20 years old, that's the average of our housing fund, that's where this year should be separated around the stamp monthly. It's this tax today. It's nothing, but we can't leave our citizens with any impression that we're making some huge taxes here. It's one pack of cigarettes a month, and it's not the most expensive one, and they smoke every day. Of course, everything needs to be added up. Believe me, we're looking at what it all means to our citizens, all of it, but we can't let some kind of impression be created that we're talking about some big interventions here. If we take, for example, rural houses that have 200 square meters, for such depreciation, on average we climb to about two stamps a month. That's it. So here's a few facts and here's what this law is, there's no big noise to be made about this. That's what it is. In all the countries in the environment, it's much more. Is it supposed to be like us today? No, I don't. The economic power in our country is weaker than in other countries. As far as birthrights are concerned, it seems to me, if we remind ourselves of what kind of budget was adopted two weeks ago, that we see a big difference here compared to what was done before. It is spoken of as a declaration of birth and politics, however, it was two years late for children's supplements. Two years. What happened in the back quarter? It paid off a good deal of that debt, and all the families were and how well they felt, in their pocket, which means one real policy. We have a system, and the speakers are saying before that what's not bad shouldn't change. We keep that system of child accessories. He's not perfect, he's got some abuses, but he's mostly the right one, because he's targeting the very family, not the individual, but the family as the main element of stability in our society. It helps those families that are in some financial difficulties. We will continue to build on that system and help. As I already mentioned yesterday, and I'd like to repeat today, the best policy of birth is to start with what we have and what's well done, which is a system of child supplements, to pay for 12 children's supplements this year and regularly. For some families that have two or three children, it's up to 70.80 marks a month. That's what our families need, that they can maintain hygiene and give good education to our children. As I have noted, it will not be all, we have provided funds that and this year not only waiting for what were bonds for children's allowances, we will also do what should be paid on 1 January 2002, ladies and gentlemen, we will pay this year in advance and in August when it is most necessary for our children and those families. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4128	Here you go, Mr. Seselj, then Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4129	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the backlogs of children have been piling up for years, and DOS government has failed to make the first bonds that had to be paid up until the new year completely pay off. They sold south of Serbia to get some church girl from abroad, and they didn't pay for it. It's about children's supplements. They were late for years, piled up. It was due to pay off the first bonds by the new year, they weren't paid. Secondly, Minister Djelic is talking about the village of Klenje and the tax that would be paid there on a 100-square house. (Loud voices: 200, 300) That amount is at least 25% higher than it was before, according to these calculations. There is another danger here that Minister Djelic does not speak of at the moment. The law is too principled and leaves the ministry's hands free to subsequently prescribe that the basis will be calculated and the collection will be made. What follows is the greatest danger of this law. The law is restrictive to the extent that it introduces taxes where they haven't been, which increases tax rates where there have been taxes before, which reduces tax incentives, here, about the number of household members, and then leaves the minister with his hands off to secede as much as the finance ministry needs money. That's the basic problem of this law. What a citizen doesn't have legal certainty, which he has to suffer from day to day if he's being ambushed somewhere by a tax collector and what a tax collector will think of as an innovation in the way of reckoning and how to charge. One of these innovations, of course, is a female sock over Dejan Popovic's head, when he comes in during the night to charge violently.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4130	The word has an MP, Mr. Ivkovic, then Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4131	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, there are a lot of innovations and a sick man sitting in prison, and he has no right to be treated, it's an innovation of this system. Out of the O.R.: Ouch. That's right. A man who has a temperature between Thursday and Friday 39 degrees, pressure 190 with 130, is being sent back to prison for your great pleasure, apparently. Mr. Djelic, we are telling the citizens of Serbia the truth, and the truth is that earlier reliefs were 50% for the holder of ownership and up to 30% for the number of household members. So the total relief was 80%, of possible 100%. You have now reduced the relief, so you go to 40% and allow up to 30%, and given the structure of households that use the property. So the truth is, you've reduced from 80% of the possible discharge or relief to 70%. Therefore, your story of honesty, of the social category, you turn out to be more socialist than we are sitting here. That's not true. You've increased the burden by reducing the possibility of relief from 50 plus 30, you've reduced to 40 plus 30. So, by 10%, you've reduced your relief, and by 10%, you've increased each family's burden in Serbia. As far as the village is concerned, Mr. Djelic, if someone paid 200 units of money, they will now pay 500 units of money. So the burden on the country's house is two and a half times as high as before. Let me remind you, when it comes to agricultural land, the cut was 114.5% in 2000, and thanks to your solutions, the cut was 205% compared to the estimated value of cadastrian property. So to sum it up, the truth is, Serbian citizens, the next -- earlier reliefs were 50% possible, plus 30%, means 80% total, and only 20% was paid, thanks to your solutions that are inevitable, because you made three and a half times the budget last year. Now it's going to 40% possible relief plus 30%. The result is that Serbian citizens all pay 10% more property tax, plus the foundation of property value is much higher than last year. As far as the village is concerned, if someone paid 200 units, today they're paying 500 units, so two and a half times more. As far as agricultural land was concerned, taxes were 114.5%, and now 205%, to remind you, because of the 60 percent disposal fee, and now it's 150 percent. So, about the fight for Natalie, about how you stand for the family, about having more kids, they'll find out when your parents go to buy baby diapers, when they go to buy a crib, children's shoes, and when they see how much they've already been cut off, because your majority has voted on sales taxes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4132	The word is from Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4133	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to go into controversy with Mr. Ivkovic at all. I'll admit he has a formal basis to come out for this pay phone again, but I can hardly speak without mentioning his name. What does social justice have to do with the situation that Mr. Slobodan Milosevic is currently in? I'll remind you, Socialists, that you requested last week the formation of a survey board, which would review the circumstances under which he was arrested. Were we an obstacle to the formation of this committee of inquiry? Just for cheap propaganda, use this pay phone to deceive the public. Slobodan Milosevic has examined a 12-doctor medical consulate. That consilium was formed because of a person who had a pressure of 170 over 110, temperature 36 by 5. The citizens of Belgrade are in a much more difficult health situation, but he cannot reach the dispensary, and when they do, they have neither a cure nor a doctor. You have come up with a society where you live and now you insist on the concept of justice, bringing it down to Mr Milosevic. Let's form a polling board (louds from the hall: let's see who the people who arrested him are, see if any laws have been broken. No law has been broken, you know it well, so you're avoiding a meeting. We can discuss the circumstances in which he is present, see if other prisoners enjoy the rights that he enjoys, whether other prisoners have the right to visit daily, whether other prisoners have the right to a doctor whenever they wish, whether other prisoners have the right to meet with lawyers and to communicate with the public through their party colleagues. As for the legal certainty Mr. Seselj spoke of, he has the least right to do so. It's not our fault that his vice presidents sold political ideas to the Serbian Radical Party for 900 thousand marks, which speaks of a party that allowed such people to lead it. It wasn't sold to southern Serbia. If Serbian countries are sold across Croatia and Bosnia, if Kosovo is sold, southern Serbia has not been sold, because we are guaranteed the stability of Serbia and the preservation of southern Serbia. On October 5th, we received a state that had no international respect, a country that was devastated in both external and internal terms. Twenty-four children's allowances you owed, you didn't have the funds for it, but you had the funds for your apartments, you had the funds for your cars, you had the means for the corruption you served. No child's allowance is owed by this country, no one else. You come out here and you'll have to explain in an argument what month we haven't paid off the child's allowance. Twenty-four of your debts and everything that has arrived in the meantime has been settled. What you're talking about has nothing to do with tax policy. Wide taxes are the basis for a stable social policy. From which funds to fill the funds, from which funds to provide child support, that's impossible, because you left us a ruined society. You are not as failed as Serbia failed, you are much better today than you were ten years ago when you began to deal with politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4134	Dear Mr. Chairman, I can also see for the viewers who watch and for those present in the room that the property tax law is on the agenda and that you have allowed the previous speaker to speak for eight and a half minutes, to give a political speech, for this speaker, but since he was giving a political speech, I believe you will allow me to give the facts, too. I own a paper signed by a medical committee that agreed with the reference of Slobodan Milosevic to VMA, which says that Slobodan Milosevic at that time has a pressure of 190 with 135, that he has tachycardia 140, that he has arrhythmia and that he has muscle failure in the front wall of the heart muscle. So it's a fact, and I own that paper. I also have information, accurate information that after the coronography between Thursday and Friday, he had a temperature of 39. I also have sad information that doctors were outvoted, like we did here in the Assembly, about whether to go back to prison or not. There are facts and I agree with that, I'm witnessing that on Wednesday, when he got sick, he was an extremely correct reaction to the county prison administration. I want to say, too, that the best doctors present in Belgrade have been brought in and that they have come out to meet the family that doctors whose family believes are present. Therefore, all those involved on Wednesday were correct, their part of the moral and formal obligation, but Friday's reference decision was completely inappropriate and unfortunately, its state shows it. That's why perhaps even the reaction of the predecessors to this pay phone to everything that's been said is a mess. As for the children's supplements, my dear gentlemen, I must tell you what reminds me here that I forgot. In 2000, the government of the Republic of Serbia spent 20 billion dinars on reconstruction and reconstruction of the land, which is why this country was bombed, to spend money on reconstruction and reconstruction, so that pensions and child benefits would not be paid, that the people would be unhappy and that someone else would come to power. If you are convinced that the people trust you, go to elections now when the people ask, 75% of them, new elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4135	Replica, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Cedomir Jovanovic has made one grave lie, that all the child's allowances have been paid, and that is absolutely not true. No government bonds have been paid, let alone anyone who's been issued for 24 months. They were not paid even though it was sold south of Serbia. First, Mr. Jovanovic, there are no Serbian countries in Croatia. There is a Republika Srpska Krajina that is under Croatian occupation. You helped Serbian enemies occupy the Serbian province, it was handed over by the then regime in Belgrade and that is true. If it's even sold, you prove it now. Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija were handed over, with fierce opposition from the Serbian Radical Party, and now you have sold south Serbia, so-called Serbia. Zone B and now act as our security forces enter all other zones, and there were our forces. True, according to the Kumanovo Agreement, without heavy weapons, our police moved everywhere along the administrative border of Kosovo and the rest of Serbia, from Montenegro to Bujanovac. But there in Bujanovac and Presevo, where the Shipatarian terrorists entered, you handed over and sold the territories and now Covic finds that the government will surrender to the Shiptar terrorists, to make it legal from the aspect of our Constitution and our law. That's the essence of your policy. For the poor money, you sold it, but you didn't pay for the child's allowance. You inherited that obligation, you promised the people that you'd pay it right away, you couldn't. When we were in power, we couldn't right away, but we found a method to gradually pay off. Now you can scream right now, pay right now, don't tell the truth that it's already paid off.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4137	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4138	The previous regime, since it was unable to pay child's allowances, issued bonds. A good deal of these bonds has been paid in the last quarter thanks to better pay and better public finances and partly donations, especially by the Government of the Republic of Norway and Greece. On the other hand, of course there are two other types of bonds left. One type of bond is in the hands of our citizens and the first time it is due to be charged will be on January 1, 2002, but we, and I have mentioned it twice, intend to pay it in advance, so during this year, most likely in August. And about a billion bonds are in the hands of the economy today, because some citizens have settled their commitments to the economy with these bonds. Look at the budget. A billion dinars are foreseen on the budget on the dissipated side in order to resuscitate that too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4139	If we are done with health bulletins and a reminder of Serb countries no longer present, we should return to the amendment of MP Zivko Selakovic. If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 57, against 114, two abstentions, was not voted 21, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 14 of the amendment, which was adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The amendment was adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're going to have an inflation of tax laws. The more laws and parameters, the less justice and justice. I have proposed, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 19. A bill on property taxes, that the same changes are made to the extent that the tax base of up to 200,000 dinars is paid on a tax basis by 1.5%, on a tax basis over 200,000 dinars is paid on the name of the tax of 3,000 dinars, plus 2.5% on the amount of over 200,000 dinars. Obligators who, in relation to the leaver or the donor, are in the third and subsequent succession order, i.e. bonds that are not related to the leaver or the donor, inheritance tax and the gift tax are paid at a rate of 3%. That is why I believe that this tax rate should be reduced because it is absolutely necessary, justified and I believe that Serbian citizens would accept this reduced amount because they have to sort of settle their obligations as taxpayers. I'm sorry, I'm afraid we don't come back at the time when we say, "Take an ago that you like." That is why I am asking and proposing to the MPs to adopt this amendment, because in any case, as I have said, there is also a legal, moral, economic and political reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for this amendment, I must commend the Minister of Finance. I find it very difficult to praise the Serbian government and its members, but this time I must commend it, because it helped me from this pay phone to deny Cedomir Jovanovic. Here, Minister Djelic confirmed that not all government bonds have been reconciled to the remaining children's supplements, in part only the tranche arrived first, in part. I am grateful to Mr. Minister for testifying here in front of the Assembly that a billion dinars of leftover government debt on behalf of children's allowances have been paid through various goods of business companies that owed the state, which is according to our law and the idea that citizens can buy goods for bonds, and here the minister has now testified that a billion dinars have been settled in this way, which is not a small amount. On the other hand, you know, it's painful for every game when our people find themselves in it. Such were the ones in the Serbian Radical Party, who were subject to crime, bribery, and we eliminated them from our ranks, but we threw them out, and they came to DOS. For example, Alexander Stefanovic, current MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4143	Mr. Seselj, let's get to the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4144	He tried to steal two apartments from the state, formed a private savings facility, a humanitarian society to steal money, bought a degree in the Faculty of Pharmacy in Sarajevo, etc. We shall cast them out, and ye shall take them into your ranks, and they shall become messengers with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4145	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4146	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here is allowed every kind of interpretation and interpretation, but we did not get a concrete answer to a question that was not paid by the Republic Government of the Doss. We did not get an answer to a question that the government's children's supplement, in which DOS representatives parted from 5 October to the end of January, did not pay. At this point, as the finance minister said, the Republic government is planning to settle the obligations that you have defined in the procedure, which you would not be obliged to settle for another year. So, in advance. Very soon, the damage that has come from your rule will be resolved, and finally, recalculate all those squares of the housing fund that you've shared, not for cash, but for funds and debt beatings, so see how much it's worth on the market for children's supplements. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Did you tell me, Chad?) Do I have the right to a replica? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4147	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 105, there were no abstentions, no 32 votes, and a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic together submitted the 19th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law points to the conclusion that this time, the creators were either close to those who had celebrated themselves with the solutions of previous tax laws. Since the last package of tax laws was given, there have been about 400 amendments and the Assembly has not adopted any. On this occasion, government representatives have, therefore, made draft laws to add 100 amendments to their laws. However, many amendments have been prescribed by the Serbian Radical Party, such as the amendment to a member of this law we are now discussing, but that is not important, it is important that Serbian radicals are not vain and that Serbian citizens are better off with these amendments. By doing so, we Serbian radicals show that we have constructive solutions and that this way we really help Serbian citizens have a better life. I would move on to the amendment, to article 19, which says that the bonds that are found in the second succession order, in the legal order of inheritance, are to be paid on a tax base of up to 200,000 dinars and a tax of 3%. In the amendment tabled by Mr. Stamenkovic, it was proposed that the tax be reduced to 2% and that more than 200,000 dinars, or where it was proposed by the government that 5%, the amount should be reduced to 3%. This is because we Serbian radicals are thinking, above all, of progressive taxation of much larger assets, or 200,000 dinars today worth about 6,700 marks, and by the end of the year, it will probably be worth between four and five thousand marks. That is why we propose that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4149	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would very much like to have a word with Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic about the amendments. Since he doesn't want to talk about the amendments, then I'll talk to him about what he wants. First of all, as far as children's supplements are concerned, it remains the obligation of the new government. There's a principle of state continuity, and you have to stick to the deadlines that write on bonds. You only partially, by January 1st, paid off. By the time you're in the summer, others will be there for you. You're not planning on paying them off. You're not planning until next New Year's Eve to pay. Secondly, as for two and a half years as many Serbian radicals were in power, we began to solve lagging problems. Three late pensions were paid with electricity bills. And then there was a war. In that war, war effort had to be financed. After that, we were either in a dilemma or we were paying late children's allowances or we were fixing bridges. The bridges were too much more than the basic factories to start the economy, because if there's no economy and no traffic, then you can share something once and you have nothing left. This is about the liabilities that you have to pay, and you've inherited from the Belgrade Bank 100 million DM, the government of Serbia's money, from the sale of Telekom. And, secondly, Mr. Jovanovic, I claim this - that no Serbian radical has illegally received an apartment. You guys talk about some apartments all the time. None of them got one. Furthermore, they were all apartments in social property. Apartments in social property can't be sold by a state body. They can only be assigned and then go to a normal ransom, like all other apartments. Now, let's finally find a radical who's illegally got an apartment, and then let's talk. And you haven't broken that law yet, and the flats are still being assigned under that law. The government doesn't have them right now because we weren't crazy about leaving the government's apartments uninhabited. But you share them in local self-government units, where you rule on the same legal basis. Cut the law and then no one can get another one from the state's apartment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4151	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4152	I would like to comment very briefly, since the bond question has already been asked several times. One way to settle the government's obligations, especially in the last two years, was to issue bonds. The other way was compensation. One of the major problems with the budget last year was that 24.9% of the budget was made either through compensation or through these papers. That's why we came where we came from, because of those delays. So that's one method that, when bonds are issued, and no income is predicted, or at least some asset that will be sold for it, leads to trouble. The issue, perhaps it looked like a good idea, a bond for pensioners, for back-up pensions, so they could pay for electricity, is one (which we talked about a lot, and with the people of the EPS) of the key causes of the EPS problem and the restrictions we have had so far. It may be a good idea, but with this it must be carefully in public finances, because the issue of bonds without real sources of income or through the sale of assets or the provision of real income only leads to major problems in budget implementation. We will not use this method because, as you can see, it would not be responsible this year and we are not talking about it, issuing public debt bonds from the Republic of Serbia, because we have not come to this. I hope it will be next year, and as far as the past is concerned, of course we must, and there is a continuity of government and we will honor those bonds that have been issued. As a result, a billion dinars were provided on the bulky side, so that the bonds that are in the hands of the economy today would be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4153	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 110, there were no abstentions, there were no 28 votes, out of 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this tax package has brought down the pyramid of lies upon which DOS came to power. And the top of that pyramid that Vojislav Kostunica is sitting on. All your promises, these bill of law, fall into the water in just a few months. Some take years to come to such a stage that they lie so much to the people as DOS lies in just a few months. See what you have written in your promises that you have come to power - we will build a state that will protect the poor and give a strong boost to those who create and personnel are to initiate entrepreneurial ventures, invest, saves, etc. And you poor people raise basic taxes, and those who are willing to invest, to do entrepreneurial work, first introduce monopoly regulations to them, and if they can do something else, then you seduce them of progressive tax rates and simply kill a cow that could give them large amounts of milk. What is the basic lack of your bill? What have you, my dear MPs, who have come from all over Serbia and know very well what the situation is in Serbia, allowed you to be landed by plane by people from abroad and to make you a law. And you now cruel, brutal capitalism germinates on a Serbian plant... to a delicate Serbian plant, which is damaged by both sanctions and aggression. [[Zagor, voices: Gentle.]] So, just laugh. You don't care. You don't care... You want to write and realize everything that's being realized in a world that's been building it for hundreds of years and building it by bombing and imposing sanctions on the little ones, and building up by taking the monkeys off the trees to work for it. [[GROANING]] You want to apply it in this Serbia of ours. Whenever a problem is raised for you, you reach for an increase in tax rates or you run into the world to ask to be given some dinar, and they say when they give you some dinar - you are no longer in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji. They say when they give a dinar -- there will be customs between Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, and then you, since there are 18 different people, are always accusing the other one that he knew about the customs, and the rest of you knew nothing. Well, the government of Serbia, which is DOS, has no idea about customs but says -- knows the federal government that is DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4155	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4156	Mr. Martian, since yesterday, ever since I saw you throw away a book, I don't mind your warning at all. You'd never throw a bottle out of your hands, and you threw a book away yesterday, like you didn't know what a treasure book was. So please don't warn me anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4157	But you're still sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4158	Now, so far, the dictatorial power Come over here, Milk, and you'll see him first. [[Comment from the O.R. Can't be heard]] You're going to check on him. So far, the dictatorial authority that was not able to deal with the people and who robbed the people had a member of the 18th law that was better. I don't know if it's Milka or Leila, I'm sorry, and it's okay with society. Don't get me while I'm at the pay phone, you're interrupting my concentration. Article 18 regulated what the current government regulates to Article 19. If any DOS MP had enough courage to read each other's bill in parallel, I would have asked Minister Djelic if he was Ministers, and you're putting us in a position to defend what he can't defend? And -- you putting us in a position to be told by the opposition MPs that we're justified to raise taxes, to raise taxes. It's pretty clear here, here's the numbers. The fact that you're transferring sections of the law, the tumba, something was a relief, and some credit, it can't fool the people. The fact that at the annual level a peasant paid 1.5%, and now at 0.4% five-year-old, that peasant can't be fooled. His kid's out of school. He knows it's 2% on the annual level. So I tried this amendment to get you back to reasonable tax bases, to 3% to a certain value of property (I'm talking about second order), and to return you to 2% and 3%, and to third order, let the citizens of Serbia know, so far the inheritance tax and the gift was 3%, is now 5%. Well, you ministers, you can tell us whatever you want now, but when the percentages are higher, then the tax is higher, and when the tax is higher, the people live worse. When the people live worse, the authorities change, and in order for the government to change, we are looking for elections, and you are carrying out rifles, sold police forces, bangers and bulldozers on the street, burning down television, burning down the assembly building, introducing a manner that will break your head.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4159	Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word of the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4160	Only two sentences, before I look back at what Tomislav Nikolic said, to answer Minister Djelic - first, the power industry worked well, although it was in trouble until October 5th. When you came to power, the restrictions and the collapse of the power plant came. We were able to produce enough power, and the power industry suffered a great sacrifice, so that three back-up pensions would settle the supply of electricity. The idea was also good with government bonds for backlogs, because a huge number of companies owed the state, and we gave these companies 50% of the relief if they sold their goods for bonds, and you here admitted that for a billion dinars of the goods and sold. I must be here, in front of the National Assembly, honestly to admit that I was appalled by Tomislav Nikolic and I absolutely cannot believe what he just said, that the president of the Assembly, a Martian, threw the book. I, though, didn't see it, I was turned around. I absolutely don't believe it, because I know how much Mr. Martian loves books, even though I've never seen him read them, but I know there's a rich library in his house. In his library, Mr. Marsican has the summated works of "Johnnie Njalker", the collected works of "Balantines", the summated works of "Jim Beam", the collected parts of the cognac" Napoleona, etc. That man can't throw books.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4161	This was so strong, I ran out of lines. It wasn't a book, it was some sort of summit of Mr. Seselj. Where's a normal man's book tossing? Well, it wasn't a book, it was some shit that became a hit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MPs are obliged to address each other with respect, and I respectfully addressed Mr. Marsican, and I defended him here from Tomislav Nikolic. He has no right, as president of the National Assembly, to swear here at the pay phone. He said "shit," you who haven't yet arrived to learn the language of the NATO Pact, that's a rude word in our language, very rude, especially since NATO's language doesn't have a lot of swearing, it's their biggest curse, and it paints our president too, because he needs to avoid that curse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4163	I am putting MP Nikolic's amendment to the vote. For 59 MPs, against 113 abstentions, there was no vote of 23, a total of 195. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted my amendment to the DOS for relief for the poor, so I have reduced the rate that was 2%, down to 1%, and I have kept a 3% rate for over 200,000 dinars. Poor people also have a poor legacy. What's worth 200,000 dinars, and what someone inherits, it's certainly inherited from some poor, and that property needs to be reduced to the tax base. It's not enough to go out for a pay phone and give a fire-fighting political speech. That's what we've been learning for ten years. The numbers are important, and the law of the figures is ruthless, so when it comes out for a pay phone, it says, when we came to power, for example. The phone fee was 3 stamps, and today it's 8 marks. That's the difference. Now I'm going to teach you tax returns -- 200 dinars times 20% that's 40 dinars, and that's 240 dinars, and that's eight marks. You don't pay anywhere except here. It's only here to pay. Besides, the total bill, which you haven't received yet, pays 20% of the tax now, not 9%, as before. Mr. President, I have a real grudge about your behavior, and it's not right for you to call the Minister of Education a Shiloh here, it was a book about the Minister of Education, and I'd like to ask you to apologize to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4165	It was about the author. Anybody else answer for a word? He's not answering. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56 MPs, against 113, there were no abstentions, no vote was made on 24, a total of 193. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was also submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4166	Like my predecessors, members of the SRS, who submitted the amendment to Article 19, with the same intention, I submitted it. Only the basics for the collection of that tax differ. Ladies and gentlemen, at today's session, we are present, some and present, that this property tax law, the will of the DoS of the majority, the will of the government and the will of NATO, is likely to be passed. It's obvious that this is a restrictive and rigid law. The very fact that so many amendments are submitted to him and the government's argument, which is unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory, may well be expertly, especially transparently, says how good this law is. I filed an amendment to article 19 for the next reason. In any case, this government, which DOS has chosen at segencial sessions, and perhaps NATO, because you also know when you were in Segedin, may have just been at the CIA headquarters in Segedin, has nothing to do with what is happening in Serbia and how it lives in Serbia. To tell stories about our economy standing, I think you don't need it, because you even know it. Telling stories about stimulations, which you need to give for private entrepreneurship, is also unnecessary, because you also know that well. To talk about the social picture of the population in Serbia -- I think you should go from house to house, as you went to offer yourself as promoters of future economic reforms, offering social well-being and some new and better Serbia. You should go again. Then you'll hear in every house how to live and then you'll hear that what you're taxing now, and you're breaking, says enough what laws you're making and how you'll go through in the next election. It is also interesting that you are equating third order with ordinary citizens with this article. After all, it is transparent enough for all those who will in some way enforce this law and who will feel this kindness of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4167	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 55, against 105, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken by 31, a total of 191 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted to the People's MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4168	Ladies and gentlemen, that the DOS Corporation in the pre-election campaign has come up with these tax laws proposals and has told the public, or Serbian citizens -- in the future that Grandpa will leave his granddaughter in the inheritance, a bigger tax will be paid, because we, who are Democrats, come to see that what is inherited from his aunt, uncle, is going to be a much higher tax rate, the question is how would that corporation go through the elections. But the fact is, now you have a majority. As long as the majority lasts, they don't know it themselves. The way things are now, no one talks to anyone. But not to say something that's off topic. Gentlemen, when the amendments are discussed, the concrete proposals given to you by the SRS, you immediately reach for back-up arguments, and this has already been seen many times from this pay phone. Now comes the story of who lives, who eats and who drives. You know, it's already a worn out topic. The people no longer have the patience to listen to you, the people ask you to live better, the people ask you to reduce the tax rates based on those 6 billion you promised. Secondly, you can't get the impression that you're acting like this is a rock and roll spectacle. Is it because your leaders have failed guitarists and drummers of rock 'n' roll? Then it is no wonder that more and more in the people sing the song, that God should give the rock 'n' roll.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4169	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For a vote of 49, against 106, the abstentions were not, no 37, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted to the National MP Bora Stanimirovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 54, against 113, there were no abstentions, no vote of 25, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted the 20th amendment together. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 20 says: Inheritance and gift tax is not paid on money, rights or items of Article 14(2) of this Act, if the individual market value or nominal value of the subject matter is less than 6,000 dinars. You have to admit that 6,000 dinars are really small and for 6,000 dinars, there's really nothing to buy. The consumer basket of a four-member family now stands at 12,000 dinars, the average salary of citizens is 4,000 dinars. 6,000 dinars is really a small amount. For 6,000 dinars you can buy 120 liters of zeythin, one pig of 50 kg, lamb of 40 kg, 7 sacks of artificial fertilizer. Do you feel that on exactly the kind of gifts you get from your cousins, a friend should be paid a tax? Is there a 200-mark ring worth paying taxes? That is why the amendment, which Mr. Stamenkovic and I put together together, increased the amount of 6,000 dinars to 20,000 dinars. In one part, you can see that it says that a tax on a used vehicle is not paid up to 6,000 dinars. Tell me what kind of motorized vehicle is worth 200 marks, which is technically correct, which is functional and which does not endanger the person who drives it, or the other traffic participants. Yes, probably Mr. Djindjic, who drives that motorized trotinet, may be able to pay for 200 marks. Indeed, it is inconclusive that something that amounts to only 6,000 dinars is not tax-free. I'll remind you of some items that have jumped in the last period. Health professionals know how much in the last period, since DOS came to power, they've jumped their meds. In December, medications averaged 95%. Yes, Mr. Jovanovic, they must have jumped for so much in December last year, when you came to power, and these taxes have increased the price of drugs by 17 plus three that is 20% and some new purchases have been announced so that the hospital packaging, the box of acetisals of 500 tablets instead of 310,00 dinars, which now costs, should be 799.00 dinars. At the announced price of electricity that should jump 60%, not to mention the prices of edible oils, fats, textbooks that have jumped - for basic, secondary and higher education, school supplies, writers - cartoons, drinking water, orthopedic aids, etc. It all jumped so drastically, surely the amount of 6,000 dinars isn't enough at all. Finally, just to remind you, can they pay taxes for workers from Kragujevac, or workers from the Red Flag? You say I can. Okay. All I know is that the flag no longer works and that 6,000 workers are currently on strike. I really don't understand where Serbian citizens are going to pay this tax. In the end, I'd like to ask the President of the Assembly, since he keeps mentioning the shit,.... (President: the president is not here. ) You will tell him, and I may repeat later, and the repetition is not harmful. It's just, the shit shouldn't be so easy to throw, because some things are being used, and they're using something more than that and worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4171	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4172	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the most serious remarks that we point out in explaining the role of defence of this proposal to the Ministry of Finance is the tending interpretation of the proposal and avoiding a serious analysis of what has been the tax, among other things, and of the taxes that we are now talking about. The existing solution was the basis defined as gross salary. Today's gross salary is significantly higher than 6,000 dinars. We have made a major step in terms of relief from the upcoming proposal. We can also discuss this through arguments through analysis of tax regulations. So, what your amendment is, it's certainly not what you said here in criticism, because that kind of thing doesn't stand in the facts that we, first of all, have to account for. As for everything that's part of the policy that you're serving, I think the price of humiliation that we've been exposed to is in line for oil, sugar, medicine, which, in fact, wasn't much higher than the price that we have to pay today, which is the price of taking care of the society we live in. The cure will cost as much as it must really cost, because otherwise our society has no chance of survival. So we're going to help the pharmacists, but we're not going to let the drugs collect beyond that market value limit, which was the case, occasionally, during your power period.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4173	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, through all these laws, the essence of DOS economic policy is made clear. It is good that the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, mentioned the medicine problem for this speaker. Coming up with a coup on power, DOS took over the Galenika with automatic rifles and a gang of bandits, headed by Vladan Batic. Galenika then stopped producing drugs, and it had warehouses full of finished drugs and raw materials. Minister Obren Joksimovic publicly called Galenika as the main culprit for the current drug shortage. DOS authorities claimed through the mouth of their leaders, on several occasions, through all media that Chinese medicines are not correct, which is a terrible lie, because all Chinese medicines are correct, checked. Now Minister Obren Joksimovic, after six months, has confirmed that these drugs are correct, absolutely correct, which we knew earlier. We deliberately reoriented to the purchase of Chinese drugs, because they are much cheaper and suppliers do not pay any fees, nor do they put any commissions in their pockets. You sold the main state-run drug factory to Milan Panic. Milan Panic is now funding all of his political performances, all of his political lobbying. Salary, even, accounts of his factories outside our country's territory. In fact, you have sacrificed one huge value of Galenika, leaving Serbia without medication, and you do not know how to get out of this problem, except by collecting 47% of the drugs. You've made so many public announcements. We didn't sell Galenika. When we were in power, Galenika was returned to the state of Serbia That kind of nonsense shouldn't be said here. [[Employer from the bench: You sold to Galenika.]] What do you know? You don't know anything, because if you did, you wouldn't be DOS's father. Serbian radicals have advocated the most, and in that previous pre-election campaign, that Galenika should return. We've been alarming the public for seven or eight years on the Galenika kidnapping issue. When we finished all this work, when the international arbitration in Paris confirmed that "Gallenika" belonged to Serbia, that Milan Panic had never paid the amount he had committed to contracts, nor had he ever brought back those licenses he had to bring by contracts, you, by automatic rifles, took from the state "Gallenika" and returned it to Milan Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4175	The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4176	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, often my predecessor recalls the period of his power, which is compromising, among other things, and for him. You didn't go to China because there are good drugs in China than China is 10,000 kilometers from Belgrade, so there you could do everything you've done, thinking that no one would ever make an account for that kind of relationship to the citizens of this society. Where's the director of the health fund today, and for what? Where's the health minister today? In the refugee system, he expects to avoid putting out a policy bill he ran. This country performs very seriously, among other things, and according to Galenika. We're justifiably defending the interest of society at international arbitration in Paris. It's not exactly what you said, that at this point Galenika is working with 70% of the capacity employed and meets the full needs of our market. The fact that we have not allowed an increase in the price of drugs is their justification for delivery, although people have quite correctly reconciled the obligations they had so far. Try to remember who allowed the Health Fund and Tomislav Jankovic to hire Vlajko Stojiljkovic's son in legal representation of the Serbian state before the International Court of Paris? Who allowed him to raise two million German marks on behalf of the cost? And, which is the price, which is not the corruption that you, among other things, have been prone to, because your party's vice president sold the ideal SRS for 900 thousand marks, to the man with whom you were a coalition partner for two and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4177	Mr. Chairman, this session of parliament is not easy for you. I went out for a pay phone to say that each of us must have a desire to say more about this pay phone than it is on the agenda, but it's obvious that my predecessors behind this pay phone are indeed drastically deviating from the agenda. In this regard, I am giving you support, that we return to the agenda and do what is most important, which is that the citizens of Serbia know what is coming to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4178	Thank you, Mr. Ivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 101, there were no abstentions, no 34 votes, a total of 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of 113 and 114 have been injured because row 5 on this side turns out to be Mr. Bogdanovic and Mr. Krstic, even Mr. Krstic voted in a remote vote, so I ask that this be determined and that, accordingly, Article 113 be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4180	If you'll repeat your remarks, I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4181	A member was injured in 113 because Mr. Krstic voted, and he's not in the O.R. It is also hurt that Mr. Bogdanovic is not in the O.R., and his presence is recorded. Attending can also be when a card is taken away in your pocket. I think the technical service can confirm that. When the card is drawn slowly, it remains a name and can be voted. It's all done, but someone's not there. Therefore, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 113, is evident.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4182	I have nothing to add, except that the service will look at the listing, and when we determine if you're right, we'll propose measures as it stands in the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if their vote was recorded, we'll see it on the document. I'll determine that from the documents, and then we'll propose appropriate measures. The amendment to article 21 has been submitted and withdrawn by MP George Mamul. I find that this amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I would like to complete my presentation today, so I would like to ask for a little patience. In Article 21. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on property tax has been said, however, it is not said as I always want to say, in the public language, that my peasants and all other workers across our Serbia would understand, so it is the impression that certain laws are more written for abroad than for our people here. All I want is for Article 21 to add a new position 2, which would read: "In the event that the heir, i.e. the donor of item 1 of point 1 of this article is not alive, the tax is not paid by their successors of the first succession order. "Here's what I want to say about it. The proposed amendment shall exempt the inheritance tax and the gift to the successors of the second inheritance order only in the event that the heirs, i.e. the first successors, are not alive. In practice, there was a problem with interpreting this member by the tax authorities, so after unnecessary waste of time, the taxpayer nevertheless realised this right. Namely, what's this all about, how I've already said something in advance. It is an impression - and what gives the taxpayer the right to achieve, with various devastations, that the taxpayer is brought to the point that he can't actually do it. So it's not intrusive, as we say in our Serbian language, we have eloquent words, thank God, that our people's language will simplify this and say it. It's already been predicted, what I was saying, is a kind of relief.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4184	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4185	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that Cedomir Jovanovic left the session, while there is a very interesting debate on these amendments. He just brought out a series of lies, again. I've never been to China as well as any Serbian radical. (President: Please stick to what the topic of the agenda is. ) But I fought both my legs and my hands to have the Serbian government reorientate from the acquisition of Western European and American drugs to Chinese medicines, because the Chinese don't give anyone a commission in their private pocket, and Chinese drugs are the best in the world. As for the charges of some people for crime, Cedomir Jovanovic thinks if someone was arrested by DOS authorities, it is evidence that he is a criminal, and the court has yet to establish anything. (President: Mr. Seselj, for the second time I warn you not to discuss what is not the topic of the agenda. ) I don't want to defend anyone in advance, but if innocent people are proved to be arrested, and I know for some that innocent people are arrested, at least for Dragoljub Milanovic, although I think of him all the worst, as head of state television. He was arrested as if he had bombed state television, not Javier Solana, whom DOS leaders here received so nicely. Mr. Seselj, please move on to the topic. ) I move on to this amendment and quote only Minister Obren Joksimovic, who says "Gallenika" to the drug market does not deliver anything, and is bothered by preparations from China. Does this mean that this people should feed the grass, until Milan Panic occupys this earthly drug factory.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4186	Mr. Seselj, I take your word. As for the objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you pointed out, I would like to inform you in the meantime that Mr Bogdanovic did not vote and is not on the document, and in that part you are wrong. Mr. Krstic is registered, but we need to determine who used the card. Sure, he's not in the O.R. I think we've solved it. I'm taking a five-minute break. We interrupt the break and get back to work. Anybody else answer for a word? Let's stick to the agenda, then we wouldn't have this problem. Shall we get back to work? (From Hall: To move to the work of "Johnnie Nyalker".) I drank your brains out, so that's the problem. Shall we get back to work? Here you go. If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 29, against 107, no abstentions, no 27 votes, a total of 163 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4187	I've done a lot of things in this congregation. I just haven't said it in a while. Now let me do that. Mr. President, if the government had submitted an amendment to Article 27, then MPs should have met with that amendment. In the report we received, there is no amendment. It says here he's on Article 27. The amendment's bill was submitted only by MP Bozidar Vucurovic, there is no amendment to the government anywhere. Now, since I don't know what the government amendment is, it may be exactly the same, probably, I suggested that the position in which it stands be deleted, that if the tax authority within the time limit laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article does not establish a tax base at market value, the tax base makes up the agreed price. I've endured it from some of the past experiences. Now I'm going to tell you how to do it in tax authorities. A low unreasonable price is agreed. Then the claim for the right price is kept in the drawer for 20 days. The tax authority holds that claim in the drawer and after 20 days of tax base is the low agreed unreasonable price. That's why I only asked that attitude to be erased, and that position is, after all, in favour of budgeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4188	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. Here you go. (From the O.R.: According to the Rules of Procedure.) I gave him my word, we'll do it later, there's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very important to consider the amendment of Bozidar Vukurovic to Article 27 more seriously, because it is the basis of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights. These absolute rights are neither in theory nor in practice sufficiently clarified. On this point, it would be good to declare Deputy Finance Minister Dejan Popovic, but of course not in front of this assembly, because he has no right here to prepare the Minister for the Amendment of this Article 27. Some absolute rights are not foreseen at all. For example, absolute rights to nepotism, which existed before, but flourished under DOS rule. Thanks to these absolute rights, for example, the husband of Mladjan Dinkic, governor of the National Bank, Tatjana Dinkic is head of the office of Miroljub Labus, otherwise involved in the Mabar del South affair, worth three and a half million marks. Belonged Mladjan Dinkic was appointed head of security at the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4190	Mr. Seselj, you're doing the same thing again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4191	Brother Vuk Obradovic, Milos Obradovic, a colonel who left the Yugoslav Army on his own seven years ago, was reactivated and appointed director of the Federal Aviation Control Board, with a proposal to receive the rank of general. Those absolute rights should be taxed and I think they should be incorporated into this Article 27. The law. Are you following me closely?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4192	Netremica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4193	Netremica? Please don't just come into my word, because it's easy to confuse me, I'm a confusing nature, and then. Furthermore, it should be kept in mind that the head of security, Zoran Djindjic, Marija Vukosavljevic, is the minister in this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4194	For the second time, I warn you to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4195	There needs some absolute rights to be taxed. I ask that this be entered into this Article 27. There is no Minister Djelic, I do not believe that his deputy, Dejan Popovic, understands me well. We have some other cases, such as the husband of Milan Milosevic, a DS official who is the director of Infostana, the wife of Serb Antic was the head of his cabinet in that previous government, that small government that lasted 3.4 months, as long as it had lasted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4196	Mr. Seselj, I take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4197	Are you taking my word? Don't, please, just pause to declare, just don't take a break to declare it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4198	Then come down alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4199	Of course I'm gonna go down alone, promise me you won't take a break right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4200	I won't, I promise. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4201	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure allow us to stay out of this situation. The provision of Article 105 has been violated. Rules of Procedure: the measures put forward by the President of the National Assembly shall be applied as a search takes place at the point of the agenda in which they are spoken. Which means, once someone's word was taken away, it was taken away as long as that agenda point was in progress. (Employer Seselj, from the place: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) In accordance with Article 105 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, we need to realize that this injury is done and that, in the course of this agenda, those to whom the measure has been given can no longer receive a word. Thank you. (Employer Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Bravo. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4202	No doubt you're right and we'll apply that in further work. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 107, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken 26, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački and MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic, together. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4203	The Honorable Presidency, members of the government, distinguished colleagues, I'll risk being uninteresting because I'm gonna stick to the agenda, but I guess that's our basic job. I have submitted an amendment to Article 30(2) of this Act relating to tax rates, to the transfer of other absolute rights, in particular to the real estates made up of buildings, apartments and other construction facilities. The essence of my amendment was to leave that tax rate that so far was, 3%, instead of the proposed 5%. The explanation that I stated was that by introducing a 3% rate, compared to an earlier period several times in an absolute and relative amount, the rate increased compared to the previous state when the rate was far higher, was about 20% with some releases. So the citizens started paying this tax more massively. By introducing a 5% rate under this proposed law, so-called Mandatory defence mechanisms would be activated. So, contracts wouldn't be certified, they wouldn't be shown to tax institutions, there'd be some fictitious substitutes, there'd be a pay jam, etc. So the traffic of immovableity would have fallen rapidly and led to a reduction in the handling of this base, so all of this would have led to a reduction in the charge of this base. In addition to health, citizens' housing needs are one of the very important needs, and surely by increasing 5%, it would be difficult to achieve this need. The government has given an explanation why it cannot accept this amendment and could group it into three points. First, the level of the tax rate provides justice in the distribution of tax burdens. In my view, this is a rather arbitrary and discriminatory interpretation of fairness, by increasing the rate of certain taxes. Secondly, the tax on the transfer of absolute rights as public revenue is prescribed for the benefit of the municipalities' budget, and the acceptance of this amendment would result in a reduction in the revenue of those budgets. This argument is often mentioned by the promoter in other amendments. I don't think it can stand at all, because taxpayers don't care what budget their money goes into, whether it's in the Republic, whether it's in the municipal or any other. It is important how much more money is needed for each individual to be singled out, not in whose budget it will merge. The third argument made by the applicant is that the acquisition of property rights to immovable property assumes over the contract with the court, the registration in the public book does not take place without proof of the tax paid, etc., and the unfounded allegations by the applicant that the proposed tax rates will result in a reduction of the sales tax. I think the bill promoter either didn't hear or ignored the institute so-called. the extraordinary property. Many of the immobility contracts are in the presence of two witnesses, without official confirmation. We are witnesses that this is particularly expressed in rural areas, where even some desert debates are not led to an end, because simply in our world, words and cheeks are still as important as some certified paper. Therefore, in a desire to avoid paying an increased charge which is not negligible because of the value of the property, there will certainly be a reduction in public official property traffic, and thus a significant reduction in tax collection. Therefore, a 3% rate should be left, as foreseen by this amendment. So, at first glance, it might seem that this amendment is directed against the budget. On the contrary, the practice has shown that at smaller rates we can take more, and therefore, we better fill the budget. That is why I propose that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 30, which reads as follows: "The rates of tax on the transfer of absolute rights" are proportionate and are: 1) on the transfer of the shares in the legal person and the charter of the value of Article 23(3) of this Law - 3%, 2) on the transfer of other absolute rights to Article 23 and 24 of this Act 5%. "We have proposed that the tax on the transfer of other absolute rights from Articles 23 and 24 of this law be reduced from 5% to 3%, and the colleague has already made a number of arguments, which is why this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4206	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 77, against 71, the abstention of four, was not voted 23, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4207	I submitted this amendment alternatively, frankly, I was afraid you wouldn't respect this previous amendment. I wish I wasn't right, but it turned out I was, so this is an additional amendment that can at least ease what we didn't agree on before. Therefore, it is an amendment to Article 31 which says that the tax on the transfer of absolute rights is not paid, so it states for which all items are not paid. The proposal is to add another point of the 10th, which reads: "To property, village and change of place of residence, separation or integration of household and so on. "The reason is that these are the basic basic living needs that citizens need to provide themselves, so they do not need to be additionally burdened. So this isn't about a real estate store where someone buys and sells real estate, and that's how they earn it, and of course, if that's what the definition is, and it is, they have to pay taxes on it. This is just for cases where some life-form housing problems are solved. Therefore, the tax is not paid on condition that the assets realised by the sale of immovable property are invested in the purchase of real estate which solves its own housing problem or the same problem of a family household member, i.e. where the same means are used to separate or merge the family household, or where the funds are spent to purchase the property, for the purpose of changing the place of residence. These provisions existed in the former law when the tax rate was high - 20%, then they were released, so they switched to 3%, and then those exemptions were abolished. Since we have now increased the rate to 5%, I suggest that these provisions be respected, i.e. that this amendment be applied, so that in those cases that are easily proven, where there is already a mechanism to control it and how it is done, we help people, when they solve these basic housing problems, we still rid them of the additional burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4208	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 84, against 76, one was abstentioned, did not vote 19, and a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 32. ... (SRS lawmakers asking for a repeat vote) How can I repeat the vote, you should have intervened immediately. How can I repeat the vote? (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: We question the vote. ) The quorum is visible, and if everyone pulled the cards, that's another question. It's a matter of understanding democracy from those who don't. I don't remember anything about the Rules of Procedure, come on, make a proposal, I don't mind if you have a concrete proposal. If not, we'll move on. On article 32, he submitted and withdrew, MP George Mamul. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. At the 34th National MP Milos Lukic, he proposed one amendment to delete Articles 34 and 35 and 36's positions. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted this amendment with one goal, which is to protect the ignorant parties involved in the proceedings before the court and other competent authorities. So, what's this all about? Article 34(3) of Articles 35 and 36 provide for the obligations of taxpayers to deliver themselves to the Republic Public Revenue Administration the corresponding documentation necessary to determine the tax liability. This wouldn't be a bit of a problem if a member of the same 37th law hadn't been imposed on the relevant state authorities. So, the court and the relevant state bodies listed in this article. What does that mean? This means that a party who comes before a court and carries out a specific legal operation, enters a gift agreement or a leaven hearing, shall be obliged to enter the Republic of Public Revenue and submit all such documentation within 10 days. The same obligation stands with the state authority. Most of our citizens are unable to understand the importance of this action, it will happen that people of ignorance, for other reasons, the geographical distance of the place from the seat of the court and the Republic administration, and so on, miss this shop, and by missing this action they will be influenced by an extremely rigorous sanction, and this is the threatened penalty of up to 10,000 dinars. It could happen that a man who had no intention of cheating on the state, who wanted to pay taxes, is being punished drastically. Even this possibility of punishment has not been reduced, nor has it been excluded in the event of an official submission of this documentation by the State authority. For these reasons, I have proposed that Article 34(3) of Article 35 and Article 36 be deleted and that citizens be released from this obligation to bring this documentation themselves, since it is an obligation of state authorities. I'll just say this, that when a man comes before a court or another state body, he's there to pay the proper fees, so that's all it's cost him, like, 1,000 or 2,000 dinars, and that money's meant for those services that need to be done. Also, this is in a way also tossing credits on our judicial and other bodies, as well as on the service of public revenue administrations, because it turns out that they are not doing their job, and the fact that they are on the ground is quite different. The courts regularly deliver this to the Republic public revenue administrations and they regularly account for taxes and deliver solutions. I think that citizens, at least on this occasion, should be protected, because I don't think the government was planning on having any drastic incomes from these penalties. That is why I feel once again that this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4210	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, against 115, two were abstentions, not 10 votes, and a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have made an amendment to Article 40 in which I have asked for the inheritance and gift tax, and the tax on the transfer of absolute rights to be paid within 45 days, from the date of delivery of the solution, because the current legal solution is to keep everything in place within 15 days. I got a wonderful explanation from the government, and I finally realized that this argument was probably written by the deputy minister. Here's what the argument says - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the inheritance tax and the gift tax and the tax on the transfer of absolute rights are one-off taxes. Then he goes on to say, contrary to those tax forms, the property tax is an annual tax paid for all the time while the debtor is entitled to property which is subject to taxation. I wasn't interested in this tax at all, and I don't know why the deputy minister here explains it to me. I asked for it for a reason. Here, he started out as that elementary school student when the professor asked him to tell him something about Mark Kraljević, and he says - Marko Kraljević was a great hero. And he was just Milos Obelić, so he turned to Milos Obilić. I've asked for this inheritance tax and a gift and a tax on the transfer of absolute rights. A man does not determine when to receive a gift and when to receive an inheritance and in most cases, at these rates he is unable to pay that tax. If he is unable to pay that tax, whether his gift and inheritance will be looted, or at least a reasonable time limit will be left for him to sell, or to settle the tax or to transfer the tax liability to whoever gave him that gift. Really, the reasons are amazing. Look, he explains to me how a tax on property is paid, that it's been paid all year in wars, and I don't care at all. These tables he made for you, don't believe those tables, he made us the last table in which he explained to us that it was exactly the cheapest. It's the same tax tables, the double burglar, the triple hack, it's all he's been doing to us. Well, normally, and I explained that it was the cheapest, and now it explains that this is even cheaper than we've had. That's funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4212	Here's a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4213	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just because of the need to explain one false interpretation of the proposed law, I will quote Article 37. The law that we want to change and why, among other things, we went to the congregation with this bill. Article 37 The law governing this area of fiscal policy, a law agreed by the government in which it has been participated and the SRS, says: "The inheritance and gift tax and the tax on the transfer of absolute rights are paid within 15 days of the date of delivery of the solution". A member of the 40th to which the representatives of the SRS have proposed the amendment says: "The inheritance and gift tax and the tax on the transfer of absolute rights are paid within 15 days of the date of delivery of the solution". So we haven't changed the nature of that member. We agreed with this kind of solution because we consider it logical and therefore it is not a correct criticism of the government's proposal which is not supported by facts, the facts that you previously agreed on and which did not bother you, nor were they controversial [[Employer Vucurovic seeks replica]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4214	There's no replica. About what you're looking for, we discussed, here, Mr. Jojic explained to you earlier, within this item of the agenda, this is the last amendment, you no longer have the right to replication. No, I don't. [[In the meantime Seselj also asks for a replica: "You will not give me a word?"]] (Employer Seselj asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4215	You, Mr. President, had to prevent Cedomir Jovanovic from saying things that are not on the agenda and that are false. The Serbian Radical Party, which contains falseness, did not take part in the vote of the previous tax code, but it is the Democratic Party. She then gave the Socialists most in the Serbian Parliament in 1994, and then, with the help of the Socialist Democrats, they could return everything to the previous state, in the matter of privatisation already made in Serbia. It's so-called. Djindjic's law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4216	No more replicas. You're not mentioned by name. It's not a party, it's not misread... There's no replica. Okay, replication. Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4217	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Property Tax Act was passed in 1994 and was then published in the Official Messenger. However, amendments and additions to that law were made in 1998 when you were vice-president of the Republic government in 1999, when you were vice-president of the Republic Government and the second time in 1999, when you were vice-president of the Republic Government, so you are very responsible for the legal solutions defined in the law which applied to this proposal for a property tax law [[Employer Seselj is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4218	But this was a replica. To your business exposure. You have no right to a replica. You'd have to... I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote of 6, out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 44th amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting a vote on the property tax bill, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 118, against 59, a abstentioned one, was not voted 9 out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill on property taxes. As the National Assembly adopted the Bill on Property Taxes in general, I note that when preparing the Law on publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, it will enter into the text of the Law a proposal of the Legislative Committee, which concerns the legal and technical redistribution in Article 1 paragraph 4 and which is contained in the report of the Legislative Committee, which was agreed by a representative of the legislator. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Tax Code on Use, COUNTRY AND CONSERVATION OF GOODS. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Bozidar Vučurović, Petar Jojić, Karolj Kermeci, Miroljub Veljković, Branislav Blažić, Toma Buzetić, Stevan Kesejić, Dragan Marković, Arsen Kurjački, Živanko Radovanovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milos Nešović, Borislav Pljević, Dragan Jovanovic, Zoran Radovanović, Dragan Tomić, Veroljub Arsić, Dragan Colić, Ljubomir Kragović, Natasa Jovanovic, Predrag Bajčetić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Joca Arsić, Bozidar Vuić, Milorad Mirjic, Slobodan Janić, Srboljub Živanovic, Vitomir Plužarević, Lazar Marjanski, Dragolju Stamenković and Gor Cveta Cveta Republika, as well of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments submitted to the draft law. Since the principled review of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search and before moving to a decision on the bill, in principle, we need to make clear on the proposal of MP Dragan Jovanovic to hold a call for the vote on this bill. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 53, there were no abstentions against 119, 14 of the 186 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I put to the vote a bill on tax on use, holding and carrying goods, in principle. For 122, against 56, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Tomislav Nikolic suggested that members from 1-32 be deleted on one basis. The bill, which means he suggested that all members of the bill be deleted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4219	I will explain the proposal to abolish Article 1. It's a bill of law. In fact, our country has had a difficult 10 years. Whether you want to admit it or not, you've been looking forward to every new day that's been harder and harder, because every new day you've been brought to power. In such conditions, when the economy was objectively hampered by sanctions, which with less or more discounts lasted almost 9 years, in conditions where we could no more than have had to bomb the SRJ, i.e. in most of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia in which the Radical Party was, in order to solve the accumulated social problems and to partially correct the delays in the payments of the social benefits that the state owes to citizens, decided to impose certain fees on the use and carrying of goods, which it thought were in such a difficult time of luxury. Since, and I warn the promoter, and you, as you are called, the Presidency of the Assembly, since, in the basics of the tax system of the SRJ, which is in the jurisdiction of the federal government alone, there was no possibility of introducing a new tax, except for those taxes provided for by the tax system, we, in order not to abuse the rights, so as not to bring people to the Constitutional Court to prove our rights there, decided to introduce taxes, to which the Government had the right, and to fill these fees with funds, which were formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This has led to the introduction of taxis to certain goods, which citizens have in use. Meanwhile, power has changed. The DOS government has come, which says it's brought us into the world, that we're working with the whole world, that donations come from all over the world, that six billion travels (six billion dollars travels, just don't know when they'll arrive) and stop the need for certain donations that were necessary, and that we've been extremely criticised by all of you, who are now representing DOS power. I called you twenty days ago to at least apologize to Vojislav Seselj for all the attacks that the opposition then made on him, because of these taxis that you are now introducing into our country's tax system. I suggest you give up this bill, for a number of reasons -- first of all, which is not really part of the SRJ tax system, and secondly, this is no longer an emergency, and some of these goods are no longer a luxury for Serbian citizens. Whatever you say about us, from the time we introduced a mobile phone tax, to this day, the cell phone stopped being a luxury. As you all wear, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a pen in your pocket, you also carry a cell phone. One, raise a hand that doesn't, and at least one other family member doesn't have a cell phone. Are you all enormously rich? I don't think so. You may be planning to be, but not yet. Therefore, this law should be withdrawn, it should be withdrawn to prevent withdrawals in the Constitutional Court, and certainly there will be performances, because the law is completely unacceptable for today's conditions and for what is called the SRJ. You may have a chance to build another country. On the other hand, prove once that Serbia had reason to change power. With these tax laws, the whole package, the tax system reform, in which you do not oust any of the obligations that the Serbian citizens had, you are simply introducing new ones, you are not proving that the government should have been changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4220	Mr. Nikolic, let me tell you, it's the sixth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4221	Yeah, this is on the amendment, you're right. The only thing that's happened is they're called state officials, congregation officials, but what's changed. Is this law mirrored by new authorities, or is one way to make sense of the budget and even put into the law, which you can no longer lift? Here, once again, I urge you to vote for the first amendment. Of course, I won't explain the amendments to all the points of the law, but I urge you to show by voting for Amendment number one that this law should not have been passed and to oblige the Government to find revenue sources for the budget in some other way. On the other hand, we're going to prove to you in the course of the debate that this is a much greater burden for the citizens than at the time it was introduced. This is a burden on almost all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and at a time when taxes were introduced, even 10% of citizens were not charged with these taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4222	Is there anyone else answering this amendment for a word? There's a word, Mr. Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to Tomislav Nikolic is your last warning not to pass a constitutional and illegal law. Yes, yes, against the law, I will now explain it to you - the republican laws must comply with federal laws - to you who find it strange. And, against the law, it can be because our constitutional order should be based on the principles of constitutionality and legality. All the republican laws in this area should comply with federal laws, and you are now passing something contrary to federal law. The federal law is higher than the Republic law you're trying to pass. But, you know, I can't give you a lecture right now, because I only have five minutes at my disposal. In accordance with Article 77 of The Constitution of SRJ, the SRJ, lays down the basic tax system, and according to the Law on the founding of the tax system, it strictly determines what this includes, so the basic tax system makes up the type of tax on the territory of the entire Yugoslavia. The subject of taxation, taxpayers, tax bases, types of tax rates, as well as height, or tax rate range, tax exemptions, tax deductions for taxes which are relevant to the single market. It's your first member of the Federal Tax System Law. And then Article 2 says -- the types of tax on the territory of Yugoslavia are: sales tax, profit tax, income tax, property tax and income tax from international traffic. The law on taxes on use, keeping and carrying goods can't fit anywhere here, it can't exist in the legal order. There were taxes, though, but under conditions of sanctions, blockades, war conditions, therefore, under extraordinary circumstances. These fees were one specific back special, but the Tax Act can't be the back of a specialis. You think that what was tax under the emergency circumstances can simply be broken into taxes. No, it's absolutely impossible from the point of view of the legal order. If you consciously want to violate the Constitution and federal law, then it's a different matter, but you should openly say you want to break it. Because you've made us know, in an indirect way, that you're preparing for it, because you've abolished the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court doesn't exist now. And what Cedomir Jovanovic just said, it is true that we participated in changes to the property tax law, but in improving this law, a partial, partial improvement, and you made the whole law in 1994. Now you're passing a much more dangerous law, which you know in advance is anti-constitutional and illegal, from the aspect of federal legislation. Yes, yes, illegal, but how am I supposed to explain it to you when you're not talented at the essence of the law, when something doesn't reach your brain, but it certainly reaches the brains of those who created this law, because they were apparently deliberately trying to break both the Constitution and federal legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4224	Is there anyone else answering for the word from the authorized entrants for the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4225	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the constitutional framework for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 72(1) point 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides and regulates, among other things, the financial system, as well as other economic and social relations of general interest. There are much broader discrepancies in the Republic's legislation, among other things, the Constitution with the federal one, from which it partially comes through the proposal of this law, which, above all, is the consequence of the inability of the Republic of Serbia to redefine the fiscal system, in a society where we have the right to policy. Why is the state, which makes Serbia-Montenegro, as it is today, we can respond. In part, we offered our answer back in 1992, when we boycotted the federal elections as an opposition, convinced that the Constitution, made up of the Toad by the party will of the SPS and the Democratic Party of Socialists, the coalition partners of the Serbian Radical Party, and with the support of the Serbian Radical Party, which came out of these elections, deeply wrong, bad and that it will certainly have tragic conconsequences. The numerous acts of violence that were committed in the previous days have also come up with the notion of a federal state functioning it. At this point, we cannot be hostages of a non-functional federal parliament, nor can we be hostages of a state-owned creation, which, in our opinion, must change seriously. The task of the Republic Assembly is to find within the existing Republic Constitution a legal basis for the adoption of this law and to respect the government's need for this kind of funding, to respond to those needs of society, which are very concrete and clearly shown in budget expenditures. I think that in particular Mr. Seselj said one notorial lie, citing 1994 as a year, in which the Democratic Party allegedly supported such tax law. I ask him here, in front of parliament, to find minutes from a 1994 session where MPs of the Democratic Party voted in favour of the SPS law. In advance, I claim that such a thing is not true and I claim that all 28 MPs of the Democratic Party voted against this tax code. This seems to be an important step in relation to something that is in itself a fact and something that is in itself applied at this very moment. Thus, taxes and taxes were not only due to the intention of the previous regime to respect the SR Yugoslavia and the Constitution, because in much more critical situations the Constitution of the federal state was harshly violated, but primarily the consequence of its intention to finance those state needs through special accounts and in a legally undefined way, which they consider to be in line with the needs of society. The extent to which this was justified, how unwarranted, will establish budgetary inspections which are already recording concrete abuses, including the subject of one confiscation of parliamentary immunity, is an abuse in the view of budgetary inspectors. It is important to say that this law prevents such a thing. This isn't the law on cell phone taxes, this is the law on motor vehicle taxes, on arms taxes. When an analysis is made of what you did through taxes and taxes in 1998, and what we are doing now, it is seen that on average for motor vehicles the burden of the company is 48% lower than it was then, that the burden on the company by gun tax is 38% lower than it was in 1998. It's the same case with a cell phone. Don't judge the results of your decisions. At the same time, you estimate that inflation will be much greater than that 30%, as we claim it will be. In 1998, when the average salary in Serbia was 60 to 70 marks, you had 48% higher tax burden on motor vehicles than we do at this time, when the average salary is 150 marks. It's a clear picture of your intentions and it's a clear picture of our intentions. The wider tax base is a guarantee of a lower tax burden and, at the same time, a higher income from the state, which will be spent on the resolution of the consequences in society, which we are facing at this time and which, above all, are of social character [[Vojislav Seselj seeks a replica, since his name is mentioned.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4226	He has the right to the replica Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4227	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, while we were in power, for 50 marks could be bought much more than for 150 marks now. It's a direct consequence of the DOS government. Your brand is devaluing. Secondly, in 1994, the Democratic Party was in idyllic symbiosis with the SPS, so they voted each other's laws. Even the Socialists passed Djindjic's law, without the Socialists' votes, would not be possible. Third, Mr. Cedomire Jovanovic, perhaps the federal constitution is not good. But not being a good constitution isn't enough argument to break it. And third, the Republic Constitution is talking about the financial system. But the Federal Constitution is older than the Republic. There's no cohesion here. In some other provisions, there is a conflict between the Republic and the Federal Constitution. Where there's a collapsion, there's a federal one. Until the federal constitution changes, you have no right to break it, even if it's the worst constitution in the world. As for 1992, the Serbian Radical Party could not participate in the vote of the federal constitution because it was not in the federal parliament. Secondly, we supported it in the Republic parliament, because we wanted the constitution together as soon as possible to have Serbia-Montenegro. Third, we went out in May 1992 to the elections under that constitution, and so are you in December. So, in May, you were not good with the Constitution, and it was good for you in December 1992, so it was good for you in 1996, so it was worth 2000, so you came to power with the help of that Constitution in 2000, both you and Kostunica, etc. If that constitution is wrong and you've come to power for it, then you're no good either. I'd draw that conclusion. I'm not saying the Constitution is good and you're good, but I urge you to respect the basic principles of the legal order. If that's the worst constitution in the world, it has to be applied until the Constitution changes. And this constitution is the only way that is contained in the very text of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4228	The People's MP, Mr. Pal Shandor, came forward about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4229	I had to report on the violation of Rule 99, Section 2, where it is said: "The MPs are obliged to address one another with respect... "Mr. Seselj insults us here and says that we don't know what we're doing, that we can pass laws that are allegedly not constitutional and that threatens that some Constitutional Court will knock it down and solve it, etc. Now, the whole DOS sits here and doesn't know what he's doing. But he did not read, Mr. Seselj, article 135, among other things, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't read that whole article. It is said this way: "when acts by the Federation authority (you spoke about the relationship between the federal and the Republic Constitution) or other republics against the rights and duties it has under the Constitution, the truth of the SFRY, etc., or otherwise endangers its interests, and no compensation is provided, the Republic authorities adopt acts to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia". If we are now bringing an act to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, don't be afraid that this is all unconstitutional and bad, etc. Ask yourself why it's so formalized. That's another question. Vojisav Seselj is looking for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4230	I didn't hear him mention you, Mr. Seselj. First, I am obliged to respond to the People's MP, Dr Pal Shandor, and I find that a violation of the Rules of Procedure has indeed been committed for sending insults to the MPs. The right to the replica is realized by Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4231	First, it would be good to specify what I have offended you, except by my appearance, perhaps. I haven't used any offensive expressions. Secondly, this is where Pal Shandor himself said what the point was. Chapter 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia discusses the relationship to the SFRY Constitution. The constitution stopped in 1992. The new constitution, the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, was also voted by the Assembly of Montenegro and the National Assembly of Serbia, where the MPs of the Democratic Party, the SP, etc., and even that party to which Pal Shandor belonged at the time, cannot remember what it was called, because it is now in the other party. The Federal Constitution must be respected. Any law that does not comply with the Federal Constitution may fall before the Federal Constitutional Court. This law will be found before the federal constitutional court. That court hasn't been suspended yet, and of course, it's suspicious of its composition. There are judges who have ruled three times in different ways in September's elections and thus lost every confidence. But the legal thing is this: every legal act on the territory of the SR of Yugoslavia must be in accordance with the federal constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be in accordance (he is not in conformity, that is true), according to this point, in this regard, it is in harmony, but where it is not harmonised, it is not applied. There are powers of the President of the Republic that have not been applied since 1992, as he has been commander-in-chief of the armed forces, etc. There's no such thing now. [[Pal Shandor looking for a replica]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4232	I'm sorry, Mr. Pal Shandor, you don't have the right to a replica, because you're the one who caused the replica. You mentioned Mr. Seselj, he found himself offended, I don't know why. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic is reporting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4233	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, members of the government, I am advertising the violation of Rule 98: "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. "Mr. Ceda Jovanovic spoke about the past in an explanation of the content of current tax laws again, for who knows which time. That's one incorrect way to think of it. If we are already talking about the Constitution of the SR of Yugoslavia, its value can be evaluated by experts and time will evaluate it. If we are talking about relations in the Federation, then it would be interesting to answer why the SPS initiative to discuss this from all parliamentary parties at the republical and federal level, with the participation of two presidents, Serbia-Yugoslavia, has been ignored, that is, if the issue of Serbia-Montenegro's relationship is of such importance to the SR Yugoslavia, and is, why is it then, as a basis for talks with Montenegro, a platform set out in the DOS presidency.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4234	Mr. Obradich, I'm obliged to give you an explanation. You also went out for a pay phone after the Rules of Procedure, and you didn't stick to the subject. Secondly, I do not believe that the violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Cedomir Jovanovic has been committed, because he has only made a brief comparison with the laws, in line with the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4235	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Members of Parliament, given that Mrs Natasa Micic interpreted the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I wanted to apologize to the Assembly if I hurt the Rules of Procedure. But as far as I can remember, and my memory hasn't been bad so far, I came forward as the head of the parliamentary group, commenting on Mr Nikolic's amendment. That amendment, in practice, proposes the abolition of this law. He challenged the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law and therefore my presentation was related to the Constitution of the SR Yugoslavia. I did not look back on the way this constitution was brought forward, giving political views, but certainly not disrupting the course of this debate. I think it was fully in the function of the amendment discussed here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4236	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) If no one ever answers again, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 119, there were no abstentions, no vote was 14; a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, who were proposed to delete this member, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Miroljub Veljkovic, Slobodan Janjic and Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4237	Dear People's MPs, we have found that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic does not respect the Federal Constitution, a brief partnership, according to the Vice-President, does not respect the Federal Constitution and federal regulations. We can conclude from this because under these federal regulations the president of the SR Yugoslavia has been elected, that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic and does not recognise SRJ President Dr Vojislav Kostunica. This bill has caused the most controversy in the public. You've heard we'll get a sea of amendments on his design. Even the government of the Republic of Serbia has made many amendments and has changed its proposal so much, it does not look like the draft it submitted, only what the government has done in one cynical way. In the explanation of the government she gave to the MPs, it is said: "In the light of the documentation, the RS government has discovered that technical peas have been stolen". So, 3,000 dinars change with 600 dinars, thousands of dinars change with 400 dinars. So it's a technical mistake? In his explanation, he says, "Respecting the remarks and the proposals made in the process of debate," then it came to this. Guys, we're not at the party. These are still people who understand this problem as much as they do. With my amendment, I suggested that Article 1 be deleted, and that the whole law should not be put into congregation procedure. So I suggest that the government withdraw him from the adoption procedure. If you accept this amendment, which I have suggested, you would cause an extremely negative reaction from the people and at least a little lessen the harrass you have seduced by this tax package. Think carefully, DOS MPs, when you vote on this amendment. I don't know if yesterday's news from Kragujevac came to you, do you read the newspaper? As far as I can tell, there's a lot of you reading the paper now. The people won't take any more of your experiments. So, follow closely what's going on outside this congregation hall. Rest assured, the people no longer have time for your experiments. I propose the withdrawal of this law from the assembly procedure for at least three reasons. First, that's what Professor Seselj explained to you as a professor, because the bill is not in accordance with federal regulations that regulate tax issues. So you've suggested something that doesn't comply with the Constitution and the positive legal regulations. If you dare to adopt this law, any citizen who directs a representation to the Constitutional Court to establish the constitutionality of this law will receive a dispute against the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Can the government, who calls itself an expert, allow itself to do so? Another reason is that at this point the adoption of such a law is inappropriate to economic power. That tax was imposed by the previous government under the conditions of sanctions, war, bombing of this country and rebuilding the country from the barbaric attack of your friends. The previous government regulation had a limited duration and would certainly have been abolished by now, and it was bad. Let's say it's bad. You criticized her, and now you have a chance to end her. So, since the reasons why it was introduced stopped, you're not only not ending that fee, but you're increasing the amount of these duties. We can determine that there are no more sanctions, no more bombings, no more rebuilding the country. However, there are no promised money from your friends, but we can't now because of the fact that in the election campaign, you've deceived the people that these famous six billion will arrive, that we'll take that same people's skin off their backs. In the end, the third reason is moral. Why do we only tax the owners of motor vehicles, boats, cell phones and weapons? Is the motor vehicle a luxury, is the boat and mobile phone a luxury? Is hunting rifle a luxury? Under that criterion, we might be able to tax, for example. Shoes over 100 marks or e.g. A gold tooth. Your tax organs start from house to house -- zini, you got one gold tooth, that's 100 dinars. You got three gold teeth. That's 300 dinars. Why not that? (President: Time. This is yes, and this isn't. What criteria do you have when you taxed this? I would support Mr. Seselj, he said yesterday and suggested that, for example, They tax their hair and their mustaches. Look, when a man paints his hair and mustache, it's a top-notch luxury. That's what we all have to agree on. The way they got power, half our government was painted. That's what we can see here when they show up occasionally. So let's tax it, in the function of preventing some new trends in this society. (President: I ask you to finish. )For example, advocates to legalise marriages of the same sex. You don't think the Serbian people will accept that, do you? Finally, I call on you to accept this amendment and to facilitate the extremely difficult social situation of citizens. It's not a bad proposal for Mr. Jovanovic, why don't we call to make a statement about this law, not tomorrow, when your neighbor asks you if you voted for this tax bill, to say, I didn't, be sure, I was outside, etc. Why don't you call, what are you hiding from?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4238	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that Article 1 of this law be deleted, for I believe that the reasons for the introduction of property tax and use have ceased, and above all on motor vehicles, mobile phones, boats, weapons, etc. However, why did I decide to submit this amendment? I was in charge of the fact that these taxes on the use and keeping of goods had not been introduced before. Proposer - Serbian Government, on Article 1, says: "This provision proposes introducing taxes on use, holding and carrying goods, and so on: motor vehicles, mobile phones, boats, weapons, etc." Since these taxes have not been introduced so far, I see no reason, when the social circumstances have changed significantly, when sanctions have been lifted, when there is no bombing, when there has been a major inflow of funds, how the current government claims that donations are on the way, that some donations have arrived, I believe that this law, or this member, needs to be deleted and not introduced new taxes. Like I said, they're the first time we've ever been introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4240	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that I would just like to know who called them experts? An expert government, which passed such a law that is illegal and which is contrary to the Constitution, which is not even founded in the Federal Tax Law. That's how we have an expert government, and with such an expert government, we have laws like that. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 to delete, and another amendment to delete all the other members, i.e. that the entire law is abolished. There's more reason for that. I don't think you can take any other reasonable reason or argument to deny one fact -- the blockade is gone, the sanctions have been lifted or phased out. That's what results from your coming to power. If that's the case, then what is the exaggeration of these regulations of the legal basis? If this is the law that you derogate, i.e. You are abolishing the full Act on providing funds for the implementation of the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia, which was the basis for the adoption of various fees for providing social policy implementation in Serbia, in terms of bombing, sanctions, blockades, that automatically means that by coming to power, you will implement Serbia's social programme and it has already entered into force, and this people is better, only the people do not know that yet. What is proposed by this amendment is that what was unpopular, and it was called Cheshel's Taxes, now there is no need for you to edit a normative act as a form of tax. If something was unpopular, and you know it was necessary just to implement this law on providing funds for the implementation of the social programme. That's the basis that's gone now. You're in power. You have those six billion you promised the people, why don't you direct them to the needs of this people. Why are you filling your pockets? Point them for the needs of this people and here's the basis for abolishing the entire law. You'll end this need for your constant harassing wherever you get and whatever you're up to. Those taxes that were unpopular, you are now regulating the normative act as a form of tax, and you are even extending it. You're extending it to this extent to introduce new taxes, but now it's called the law, and you'll probably do it out of the clear need to fill a four-fold budget than last year's. Your great need to fill that budget with harassing leads to such absurd laws. No wonder the minister who fell from the sky and who came from Paris may not even know there were sanctions in this Serbia. Maybe he doesn't even know that those taxes you're moving now, you're rerouting them to a legal basis, did something to survive biologically. Now you're working on harassing, expanding those fees, giving her the form of a law that's illegal, which is anti-constitutional. What is a fact and cannot be denied is that by the end of the aggression on our country, the gradual abolition of sanctions, the need for the existence of this law and those taxis that preceded this law has clearly ceased. But it is up to you and these so-called experts to answer to the people for what you bring.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4242	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4243	Mr. Chairman, when discussing such important laws, you could at least provide us with a minister of finance from the Republic of Serbia. Maybe we'll agree that the government accepts this amendment. (louds from the O.R.: Safe) It's like I'm asking you to bring Mickey Mouse from Disneyland, not the finance minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am an MP for the Serbian Radical Party from the Pcinj County, more precisely from Vladic's Han, and I represent the citizens of seven municipalities of southern Serbia and to the citizens: Vranja, Bujanovac, Surdulice, Vladic's Han, Bosilegrad, Shop and Presevo, with whom I have talked a lot about this bill, so I will give you their opinion and my opinion. (A voice from the O.R.: "Poor citizens." ) The amendment I submitted to Article 1. The proposal for a tax on use, keeping and bearing certain goods requires that Article 1 of this bill be deleted, for reasons of the inability of citizens to pay another harbinger for the purpose of filling the budget, i.e. the pockets of this nation's authority. In normal states, a citizen comes first. This DOS government is a budget and its own pocket three spears ahead of citizens' interests. One normal government, and when it tries to introduce a tax, does not do so with a retroactive fact, but warns citizens in time that besides the price for the purchase of certain goods, they will have to pay taxes for the registration of the same, the tax for issuing certain permits and documents and taxes on the possession of the same items and goods. Mr. Dean Popovic, do you accept to delete this? The government doesn't, see, obviously doesn't accept. If you still insist on adopting a proposal for this law, which is not time-limited, then you are obliged to buy the goods mentioned at market price from all those who do not have the means to pay these newly invented taxes. Or perhaps you think they'll give them to this new democratic-stealing government. In your economic and debauchery thoughts, did you think of people in hill-mounted areas where elderly households barely survive and maintain centuries-old hearths, where the possession of a hunting rifle and possibly a gun is a condition for survival and defense of men and herds of sound? How will they defend against DOS beasts? We will see. Maybe with a pole of suspicious purity, and you know what stick I mean. Gentlemen, this applies to most DOS, enough robbery. Where will all of this be able to pay for refugees and displaced persons who eventually brought their property, while currently staying in Serbia? How to pay registration for their vehicles while waiting to return to their homes, let alone these new taxes. Thousands of our citizens go out to the rivers or lakes to catch the fish they feed on. Gentlemen of the government, since Mr. Djelic is not here, Mr. Dejan will probably go out for a pay phone. This is a question for you. Not everything is as naive as you represent the citizens of Serbia. Here's a concrete example -- I own a UAZ jeep, a year of production in 2000, 2,500 cubic centimeters, of which the value is 6,250 DM or translated into dinars of 197,500 dinars. Registration costs under the current laws of 300 DM or 9,200 dinars. Now there's another 20,000 taxpayers to pay. These are the two salaries of the MP, so we're left with 10. The salaries of workers and pensioners are not ten and a half thousand, range from one to five thousand. Now you'll see which jeep.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4244	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4245	Mr. Ceda Holbrooke owns a three-bedroom apartment on points, or jeep in 2001, produced, worth 75 thousand marks, as a better three-bedroom apartment in Belgrade. The jeep costs 75,000 marks or translated into dinars of 2.250,000 dinars, and it will pay 20,000 dinars of tax, and the value of its jeep is 12 times higher. This is one example that we are all equal before the tax law, that is, not to say the declared story that more will be done than the rich and less than the poor. Who will survive this tax war between citizens and DOS authorities - we will see.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4246	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4247	I'm only sure the citizens can't pay for this, so they're gonna put a new government account on the street. Very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4248	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 109, no one abstained, no voted 20, a total of 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 1st item 1 and 3rd of the amendment, MP Stevan Kesejic submitted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of mine is much worse than the amendments we've heard so far. The best would have been the amendment here, if you wanted to accept it, MP Tomislav Nikolic who suggested that all points of this law not be accepted at all. Since the DOS machine is doing what it does, it wants the people to peel it all the way, then we, SRS MPs, are trying to select selective amendments to ease this pain as little as possible when peeling that skin from their backs. That's why I submitted the amendment, and I could at any point, exactly the part that will be clear to the citizens, and also to one part of the citizens who have no such standard at all, as is represented in the adoption of a proposal on the tax of this law and the goods that it represents, as it says here, a manifestation of a higher standard of citizens. So in point 3 of the word: "boats" - means, a tax is introduced for citizens who live by rivers, by water, whose boats are a basic means of transport and a basic means of survival. The bill says boats will be taxed, and those up to five metres long, without engines. It is not clear to me here now whether or not the proponent of the Government or Minister Djelic, were they thinking about what kind of boats they were, from which the boats were built, for which they were intended, whether the boats with three boards were painted, with a tar, whether it was some boats built from plastics, such as children's boats used for children who are not yet able to swim, and these boats also belong to this class that is here in law. Boats from one metre also fall into boats as a subject of taxation, which Minister Djelic here suggested to us. Also, it is not clear whether these boats that will be taxed will be taxed because they have one oar, two three oars etc. If you've gone so far as to tax these high-standard citizens, then it might be good if you've taxed those tins too, those tin cans that are used quite often instead of boats. This would certainly bring huge revenue to the budget and thus the government of the Republic of Serbia would provide everything it did not do, and it promised the citizens. So these tin, rubber, wooden boats will replace those promised six billion dollars you didn't keep, as a promise made to this people in the election campaign. Therefore, I suggest that, in terms of a better standard of citizens, you should provide some more funding in that budget from which you want to tax, for example, the pensioners and other citizens of that social category, to provide funds for the payment of regular pensions, maternity allowances, so that you can tax, for example, those child-bearing plusers, and you will have far more opportunities to fill that budget through this vision. That's why I submitted the amendment to point 3 so that I could show the citizens what unscrupulousness this is and what kind of kidnapping this is, when what citizens want is not standard, but poverty, to tax. I suggest you delete the word "boats" in point 3 and, of course, I don't mind, to...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4250	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4251	So, to tax the yachts because I'm sure none of those who are going to be taxing on the boat's case will regret taxing the yacht, for example, your Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4252	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 106, two were abstentions, not 27, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted an amendment proposing that members of the 2nd to 32nd be deleted. The Government, the Finance Committee, the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the very fact that no amendment has been adopted to Article 1, and these others, this second amendment with all the members until the end of this proposed law, because they rely on it in some way and loses the purpose of submitting amendments. What I'm trying to say is, just to repeat once again, that I am the law as such is unconstitutional, illegal and has lost purpose by the very end of sanctions, the blockade and the arrival of this DOS government. So there was a people's desire for certain changes. On the other hand, from the 6 billion you've been promised, you'll probably reroute it to solve the accumulated social problems. It also abolishes the need for such a legal act, as well as the fact that this expert government will work daily, always and constantly to carry out economic reform in society, to start a fallen economy, to make all its efforts to keep agriculture healthy. In addition, under the conditions of sanctions and blockades, agriculture was a very important segment in the life of the population due to biological survival. This expert DOS government will also work to address all accumulated social problems, since it has promised it as a pre-election slogan. To believe that's the way it's gonna be. Although I expect, as a member of the Serbian Radical Party, that this year's election will be and that the hopes of citizens, who gave their trust to DOS in September and December of last year, will begin with these strong laws, starting with the budget, and so on, which you bring, will be derailed. The people will now think deeply about whether they will again give confidence and voice to this hilly DOS corporation, which even this law has passed. In fact, she'll bring it to today's session. After all, I deeply believe that these segendial sessions you have had leave lasting consequences on you, and the elections expected this year will not leave consequences for the people, since the people will now know who to cast their voice to in the next election. It's probably not you anymore. Because those six billion dollars you got from that same world, and even through the CIA headquarters that was founded in Segedin, and I keep mentioning that Segedin, you don't use on the general... (chuckles) of this people. I owe an apology to Mr Kovacevic, if he was the last time I went out for this pay phone, I was making remarks about Segedin, if he wasn't, although knowing him from 1993 to 1997, when he belonged to some other parties, and not to the one in which he was currently, within this DOS corporation, he was prone to these throws, so it seemed to me that he mentioned it around Segedin. Otherwise, he's being tied to Segedin by his tourist company and it would be good...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4254	Mr. Vujic, I can hear you very little, but I don't think you're talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4255	If you're listening, Mr. President, you'll see it's a theme. Since the entire DOS has gone to these segendian sessions, and you have learned nothing of it, which would be good for the benefit of this people, every next trip to Segedin, with the fact that the CIA has now defined itself to work with Vojvodina, not more with DOS or with that part of DOS that's for Vojvodina, since there are even historians among you, and I see some in the second row from the DOS framework, that through Mr Kovacevic and through the "Joli Tours", taking you to this Segedin at the CIA, it teaches you that the same Segedin is the northernmost city of Serbia's Banat. Interestingly, in Trianon, in the 20th year, a Yugoslavia like this was made, and it's interesting that the CIA from the same Parisian state brought us this Parisian student who passed laws like this. The people will know what to say about your laws in the first election.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4256	Replica, Ambassador Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4257	I would like to thank my colleague from the Radical Party for advertising for free to the Jolie Tours tourist agency and thank him for giving me the opportunity to go out for this pay phone on the basis of a replica. Jolie Tours is one of the most respected tourist agencies in Yugoslavia. Jolie Tours is not owned by Stanko Kovacevic, the MP concerned, but by my sons. Jolie Tours never led any political MPs to any meetings, either in Segedin, or in Budapest, or in any European city. Joli Turs performs a business function fairly in this market and whoever wants to check in business books, no political figure from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia has ever travelled to those cities through Joli Turs, and your colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, who, in a certain way, co-operates with Joli Turs. When you've already given me a chance to go out for this pay phone, I'll take another chance to tell you, you'd be honored if you cooperated with such a model agency and did what your Natasa Jovanovic does.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4258	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments of MP Vujic to the vote. For 48, against 105, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 26, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Radovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that members be deleted 2-6. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4259	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods and asked for the removal of members of 2-6. When I proposed this amendment, I, as a model citizen, kept your promises from the election campaign that you would lift all charges brought by the Socialists and radicals. Normally, you lied as usual, so I asked for members of the 2-6th to be completely abolished. The first thing I'm saying is that this whole proposal is completely unconstitutional, and the second thing, I'm going to list a few reasons why I don't think there's absolutely a need for these taxes. On imports of cars, Serbian citizens pay sales taxes, pay customs fees, and I think that's absolutely enough for the poored pocket of Serbian citizens anyway. I will set an example of the Czech Republic where Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus allowed a year of importing cars without customs and thus achieved two important goals. A fully renovated rolling stock in the Czech Republic has been restored and traffic safety has increased. This would also be another reason why I suggest that these taxes be abolished, and I think that this government should go with the incentives primarily towards the flag, means the promotions in production and the stimulations in buying cars for citizens. Third thing, you allowed several hundred thousand cars to be imported and when you gave the opportunity to import cars, then you didn't tell the citizens it would be at the end of the year and taxes on those cars. To the taxi drivers, the car drivers and the people who, with the help of the van, are carrying out their work, you have brought another charge with this tax. For all these people, I repeat, for taxi drivers, car drivers and people who transport goods by vans, cars, or motor vehicle is a basic means of working. Don't burden yourself with extra taxes and that structure of citizens. Taking into account that the average age of cars on Serbia's roads according to some studies for 12, 15 or even 17 years, citizens alone spend more money on the cars monthly to pay for repairs, to buy spare parts that are already fully taxed. Sixthly, I think all these burdens are completely unnecessary, because for ten years we have lived under sanctions, wars have been in the environment, war has been on us too, so the taxes we've imposed were necessary, and now they're completely unnecessary. And, seven, and lastly, so I don't explain and state my arguments to you, I'll read what the Committee has responded to the proposed amendments. In the Committee's view, cars are a manifestation of a higher standard of citizens. In the Committee's view, I don't know if this is the expert government and what planets it has come down from, but in their opinion, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that cars are shown from 1,150 to 1,300, which are proposed by the amendment to reduce the amount of taxes given in the bill, not the poorest citizens, but the richest citizens. That's how the Committee assessed it. Finally, I have one proposal: since there is still interest on interest in Serbia, I propose that we introduce tax on taxes, so when all the taxes are paid by Serbian citizens, and the tax on this basis will make us finish the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4260	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 105, there were no abstentions, there were no 16 votes, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted an amendment proposing that members of the 3-12 be deleted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (In the meantime, MP Tomislav Nikolic is asking for a word about the tabled amendment). Which member? That's decided. An amendment relating to the erasure of Articles 1-32 means that it practically proposes not to adopt the law in principle. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I wrote "Amendments from 1-32". )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4261	It's 32 amendments, and to members 1-32, it's 32 members of the law. I've saved you some paper here, Mr. President, not to write - Amendment 1, Article 1 is deleted, Amendment 2, Article 2 is deleted. I put that in the amendment, not amendment 1-32, but amendment 1-32. It's 32 amendments, Mr. President, and I want to explain, of course, not everything, but to those I consider necessary. I want to explain Amendment 2, so please give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4262	We really have a big problem here. You once gave the amendment one explanation for 32, for erasing all members, so 1-32, which means a practical non-compliance with the law in principle. Furthermore, Mr Vujic has suggested erasing from 2nd to 32nd, and you are saying that he has proposed 30 amendments. Mr Radovanovic proposed from 2nd to 6, Vucurović from 3rd to 12th.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4263	Looks like it's all clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4264	If it is decided on your amendment, and your amendment reads, "It is proposed that Articles 1-32 be deleted," and the National Assembly voted on that, then I don't see how it can be re-determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4265	For God's sake, Mr. President. It is not my amendment to delete members 1-32, but my amendments from 1 to 32. My amendments from 1 to 32, that's what it says. No - Amendment, paragraph 1-32 is deleted, but amendments from 1-32 are deleted. Articles 1 to 32 shall be deleted. Do you have...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4266	Okay, we'll get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4267	I know, you have a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4268	No, I don't have a problem, I just... We'll vote on whether or not... Nothing, you made a statement, we'll decide. The assembly will interpret what you... (Employee Tomislav Nikolic: I want to explain my amendment. [[Sagar.]] I'm interpreting this as an amendment that you've submitted to delete articles 1-32. So we don't have to argue, I'll answer you, and you'll tell me if you're happy with it, just to get your amendment. I'm not a cynic, we'll decide on your objection, so we'll see what we can do. I didn't give you the word. So in your letter to the President of the National Assembly, you stated this way: "According to Articles 138 and 139 of Section 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I submit amendments to the draft tax law... (it's not mine to interpret whether printing is a mistake but a essence) to hold and carry certain goods. Amendments 1-32, articles 1-32. The bill is deleted." And, one explanation. Since this is not provided for by the Rules of Procedure, and in Article 138, it writes the following (the Parliament will have to declare itself the sole authority to decide on this, to propose amendments and additions,... may give an opinion, but the Assembly shall decide: "A proposal to amend and supplement the bill - the amendment shall be submitted to the President of the National Assembly in writing, with an explanation, starting from the date of the submission of the bill". You have filed this one sheet of paper, this one amendment in which you call it amendments. I can't get out of that situation. I can't get out of this situation. I can't propose to the Assembly to make a statement. (Employer Nikolic continues to ask for a word. I didn't give you my word, now we're in the middle of something, so please, let's finish this controversy. We'll continue at 3:35 p.m. [[After break - 15.40]] I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. We are discussing the draft tax laws on use, holding and carrying goods, in particular. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted an amendment proposing that members of the 3rd to 12th be deleted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The promoter is not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 108, there were no abstentions, no 12 votes, of a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 4 by MP Predrag Bajcetic. Having adopted the amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 4th amendment, in the same text, who proposed that this member be deleted, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Srboljub Jovanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Proposers are not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 110, the two abstentions, did not vote 19, out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The promoter is not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 108, there were no abstentions, there were no 27 votes, of a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Lazar Marjanski and Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Proposers are not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 113, there were no abstentions, not 21 votes, out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 113, two abstentions, were not voted 24 out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 10, there were no abstentions against 111, 27 out of 148 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 119, one abstention, was not voted 21, out of a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted the 4th amendment together. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Proposers are not present. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 17, there were no abstentions against 119, 21 of the 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic to Article 4. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Secretary, in Article 4, I suggested in item number one, which refers to passenger cars and van vehicles, to drive up to 1150 cubic metres, over 1150 to 1300 cubic cc, and over 1300 to 1600 ccc, reduces the property tax prescribed by this law, i.e. to be halved. By 1130 cubic meters -- instead of 600, as the government suggested, I suggested that it be 300 dinars a year; up to 1300 cc's -- instead of 1200 dinars, 600 dinars, and up to 1600 cc's -- instead of 2400 dinars, it would be 1200 dinars. The Serbian Unity Party supports the government's proposal to become more and more cubic, so all luxury cars and more cubic cars are taxing at this rate that the government predicted. That's no problem. I think it's going to be a problem for the poorest part of our population, who certainly doesn't drive high-cubic cars, so I suggest that it be halved. So it's just that cars that drive our poorest citizens are taxed with half the amount of money that the government predicted. So, I repeat, you need to tax expensive cars at this rate, so if you need even a double, it's not a big problem for people who drive expensive cars, but it's certainly a problem for those who drive cars with the smallest cubicity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4271	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 32, against 104 abstentions 7, 17 did not vote, a total of 160 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted an amendment to Article 1, which essentially refers to Article 4. It's a bill of law. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 20, against 126, the abstention of three, was not voted 13, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4272	Mr. President of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, I was already worried that the SRS MPs left the meeting, but as Mr. Nikolic returned, I understand that they did not. I'm happy about that. In the debate we had about this law, there were various comments and discussions and in the principle debate, both in particulars and attributes for individual laws which is the worst, which is the best, and so on, and so on. I don't know if this is the worst or the best, but it is quite certain that it has caused great vigilance of citizens and MPs, and that it may be the most controversial and understandable reasons, which is why for the first time we are introducing this type of tax in political practice or parliamentary practice, as it is said, and as Mr Djelic explained. So there's no secrets about that. Such attention is understandable. This also confirms the fact that more than 60 amendments to this law have been submitted, as well as several amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a proposal. I suppose, and I would be glad if so, so if Minister Djelic confirms it, that much sooner, and if not - in the end line, it doesn't have to, that the government has responded exactly to the criticism, not in the sense that it is being criticised, but that better solutions are being proposed and that it has responded to this number of amendments, which have gone in the sense of constructive, to fix certain solutions rather than to do the opposite. What I must also say is, there is no Mr. Seselj, president or head of the SRS parliamentary group here, so I mentioned Mr. Jovanovic, as his deputy even though I often... A voice from the O.R. Mr. Jovanovic? ) Mr Tomislav Nikolic is the deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group (Heads from the Hall: You said Jovanovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4273	You have blessed him as Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4274	Maybe I was looking at another Chad. I'm sorry. No matter how much and how often I disagree with Mr. Vojislav Seselj's appearance in many things (it's all a matter of taste, I don't want to say it), in this matter I have to say that he was absolutely right, when he explained and the fact that the law is unconstitutional and illegal. I'm not talking in my head. I've been consulting, ladies and gentlemen and Minister Djelic, with an expert group, I'm not going to tell the SPS, because you might not admit it, but I am with the federal government experts. They confirmed this to me. The fact is, since this law is not in legal form, I won't complain, because I have no reason to. Please don't throw it away, it's not fair. (Lowers from the O.R.: Theme. ) The topic is precisely whether we will pass a law that is not in the legal order of our country, and which is quite certain and what I particularly want to say, that no federal tax law has been passed and that everyone, a respected colleague, can initiate a judicial procedure. I don't even know what the outcome will be, but well, let them win or some lose, they have a right to it. As far as the amendments I've proposed are concerned, he's in the context of this. Of course, from the radical proposal made by Mr Tomislav Nikolic and a group of SRS MPs, to reject the law as a whole, my proposal is more peaceful, in the sense that the reasons why the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes the introduction of a tax on wear, use, etc., if there is anything to bear, if it does not bear, it will not pay. I suggested that in article 4, adjustments be made to cars and vans, and about the way Mr. Pelevic suggested. I suggested that the first category be 500, the second 1,000, the third 2000, the fourth 4000, the fifth 8000 and so on. I think it's appropriate to the largest number of citizens who use cars. Those who have big jeeps, a big car over 1,000 cc's, and I don't even know what cars they are, pay those 1,000 marks, and that's 30,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4275	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4276	Secondly, I suggested, I ask Minister Djelic to follow if he has not seen the amendment, that the tax on motor vehicles under Article 4 be reduced by 5% for each year of age and up to 50%. You heard what kind of car we're driving on Serbia's roads, how old it is. I think cars after 10 years of driving on our roads and meteorological conditions are absolutely 50% amortized. Mr. Djelic, you can't do that, and neither can you, Mr. Popovic, to challenge, so that's why I suggested. I don't think you'd be wrong if you accepted that censorship, it means 5% and up to 50 in general, and you accepted in Article 4, so it would be 500, 1000, 2000, 4000 and 8000 and only for the highest cars of 1000 marks. I'm done. Thank you. Did I go too far?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4277	It's on the clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4278	Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4279	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4280	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Serbian Radical Party have not left the National Assembly session. They are in a parking lot outside the building of the president of the Republic of Serbia, surrounded by police. That's how you gentlemen demonstrate the democratic rule of Serbia. Wait a minute, if you're not ashamed of the taxes you're seducing, hold on for another minute. Police have surrounded the Serbian Radical Party MPs, are asking them to take a check, drive off into Serbia's driving mup...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4281	Mr. Nikolic, you have your party's press conferences, so explain what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4282	A jeep driving the party's president, registered three days ago. You just laugh, there's gonna be a big incident, and then I don't see how good it's gonna be for you either. Just two days after Vojislav Seselj said that you wanted to liquidate him, you want to stop him from driving in a jeep where he's safe and protected from people like you. You've exposed the young police to the risk of conflicting with radicals...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4283	Mr. Nikolic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4284	And it's you, the democratic government, so we're going to go out and defend ourselves against you in a way that we've defended against the Socialists. I'm telling you, you're approaching Serbia's civil war.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4285	Mr. Nikolic, I'm warning you a second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4286	Don't warn me. Warn the police...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4287	Mr. Nikolic, MPs should do their job, the police should arrest criminals, let everyone do their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4288	Don't talk behind my back, Mr. President. I don't know if anyone's beating up my colleagues there, and you guys have time to fool around here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4289	I'm taking your word. Gentlemen, please let us do our job. Let the police do their job and then we'll have what we stand for, the rule of law, and whoever sits in the O.R., we'll count ourselves in the end. Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4290	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, concerning Mr. Pavlovic's appearance that challenged the constitutionality of the proposal with which the government came before us, I would like to remind you not only of the arguments contained in the very bill, which accurately lists a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of which such a law is proposed, but also of the fact that the federal parliament, among other things, has defined the property tax. All that is the subject of this proposed law is, in fact, a detailed development of the very concept of property, and that is why neither the federal constitution nor the use of that part of the federal constitution that prescribes the creation of fiscal policy is at stake. So, the only thing we've done is concreteise property taxes, in terms of taxation of property that has its own name, and it's about mobile phones, weapons, boats and motor vehicles. So, only if someone proves that it has nothing to do with the property tax and if someone can dispute that it's a fiscal policy concreteisation established by the federal law, we can talk about possible unconstitutionality, which is a narrow legal issue which, of course, we must leave to the federal constitutional court, but in no way can all of what we are doing today be considered unthinking the federal state or violating federal regulations and disrespecting the constitution. On the contrary, it is a step further in the application of federal regulations, whereby this step further takes place through the realisation of property tax in terms of taxation, as I have already said, mobile phones, boats, motor vehicles and weapons.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4291	If we interpret not as a replica, but as an exhibition, then this is your replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4292	I'm not arguing with Mr. Chad Jovanovic. I'm just saying that the explanation Mr. Seselj explained today is in what I've been consulting with the federal government experts. What did I say? I wasn't saying at all, Mr. Jovanovic, that you were devising a federal state. I didn't say that in a word. I'm just saying that no federal tax law has been passed, and when ours is adopted today, court disputes can be brought. That's all we're arguing about, and, of course, it's the majority that's going to pass the law and, of course, that this and the consequences will have. I apologize to you and the MPs, I really didn't know about this problem with the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and I didn't do any provocation, and I don't know what it was about, keep it in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4293	If no one ever answers for a word after this amendment, I'm putting it to a vote. For 31, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 25, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic to Article 4th. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 4(2), the amount of 30% is replaced by 70%. I think the 30% reduction in passenger car tax is very low, if we remind ourselves that the age of the car in Serbia is over 10 years. It's on one side. On the other hand, if the registration for a 1,100-cubic car is about 5,000 dinars today, and the average personal income in Serbia is 4,000 dinars, the Serbian Unity Party believes that 30% is low and should be replaced by 70%.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4295	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 117 abstentions, three did not vote eight, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 for three reasons. First, because of the violation of the Federal and Republic Constitution, the second because of the violation of the Federal Law on the Fundamentals of the Tax System and because of the opposite of this member and this law with common sense. I thought only to mention the facts, however, that the second, or Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, head of the parliamentary majority group in the Assembly, seemed frantic to me, and I believe in the whole audience, to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A more difficult political statement for this speaker has not been heard in Serbia's political sky either, I don't remember, and perhaps these old ones remember. Dr. Ceda said and stayed alive, and we can listen to the footage, the citizens of Serbia watched that it was true that the law was brought against the Constitution, the federal law, but because the Constitution and the law are not good. It's a terrible thing, gentlemen. Introduction to legal chaos. All your leaders, we can listen, and the citizens listened, they're going to assess whether or not it was true, whether or not there was even controversy and whether or not it was, and I heard with my ears, a stenogram there, Mr. Chad said that it was contrary to the law, to the federal constitution and federal laws, because the laws are not good. It's an introduction to legal chaos. If we introduce new taxes against the Constitution and the law to Serbian citizens, I don't know what citizens will expect in the field of legal certainty tomorrow. Mr Djelic, in Europe, where you and Mr Popovic are taking us, has someone introduced new taxes contrary to the law and to the Constitution, and that is the leader of the parliamentary majority public statement? So, gentlemen, we're going to apply federal laws when we need them: if we need to arrest the leader of the largest political party, we're going to refer to federal law, and if we're going to introduce people to taxes, then we don't like federal law. I don't think it's right and that the MP majority must absolutely be fenced, at the very least, by Mr. Chad's statement. Otherwise, Serbian citizens do not know what to expect tomorrow, if anyone, or the parliamentary majority, has the right to introduce a tax to them, a new tax contrary to the federal constitution. I don't think anyone can defend it legally or ethically. I am surprised by the lawyers in the Assembly, except for Mr. Mamula, by all the honours of professional ethics, by the laws they know to be the opposite, and the word says by their head of the parliamentary group, that they are the opposite, we can listen to Mr. Chad. Television will let it go, I hope, again, to the citizens of Serbia. The third reason I have submitted an amendment to this law is a conflict of this law, article 4, with common sense. Why the conflict with common sense? The tax on cars, aged 10, 15 and 20, is in conflict with common sense, and on a simple case, I'll tell you that. If a man has, he finds himself, an old Mercedes, 20 years old, and all the elevators are over 3,000 cc's, he'll pay a tax of 600 marks, gentlemen. So, 18,000 dinars, and the maximum discount is 40% per change. 30,000 is a vehicle tax of over 3,000 cc's. 40% discount is 12,000. So he's going to pay 18,000. So, about 600 marks. It will pay more than the owner of five apartments in Belgrade, the owner of five apartments in Belgrade worth 60,000 marks, 300,000 marks, which has 50% depreciation, that is 150,000 marks, and 0.4% is 600 marks. So the owner of a vehicle like that that has over 3,000 cc's which is 12, 13, 15 or 20 years old, they're going to pay 18,000 per bill. Somebody do the math. I'd like to be denied. You will see that it is neither justice nor economic power nor value. I suggested that vehicles over the age of 10 don't tax. Vehicles over the age of 10 don't drive rich people. Vehicles over the age of 10 drive people with a modest property condition. Vehicles over the age of 10 have to be repaired, so it's followed by this high tax, people won't be able to fix a car and it'll probably affect traffic safety, it might affect someone's death and someone's life. Therefore, one who has a vehicle over the age of 10 is not rich and should not pay taxes on a car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4297	Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4298	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, with regard to the remarks of the SPS representative concerning alleged illogicalities in the taxation of motor vehicles and examples mentioned, I would remind you, with a reminder of yesterday's performance by the MPs of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, Mr Popovic, once again, with apologies for those who do not suffer from bad memory, that in 1998, the government of the Republic of Serbia, chaired by Mr Marjanovic, has adopted a tax on motor vehicles. At the time of adoption of that fee, vehicles with over 3000 cubic cubic metres were taxed at 1666 marks. In the government's proposal, chaired by Mr Djindjic, represented here by Mr Djelic, vehicles above 3,000 cubic metres will be taxed with 1000 marks, in dinar equivalent, with a reduction of up to 40% each year. That is, therefore, a significant difference of 40% compared to the SPS proposal that created, among other things, fiscal policy. As far as relations with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are concerned, even if we wanted to do more, we couldn't because unfortunately, there's nothing left to tear down. You gave your key word when you formed and when you ruled her through constitutional changes half last year. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not violate the Constitution. I have explained to you on the basis of which members of the Constitution the draft of this law and has arrived before the Republic Parliament, I remind you of the property tax defined in the Federal Parliament and which is the assumption of defining taxes on motor vehicles, mobile phones, boats and weapons. So, it's property and it's just a development of federal regulations, not a negation of the federal state. I am ready, at any moment, to read together a stenogram and to re- (naturally past Parliament, because I don't think others need, everyone remembers what I said) to analyse the remarks you made to my account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4299	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 37, against 118, two abstentions, 12 did not vote, and 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic to Article 4th. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 24, against 121, one was abstentioned, not voting 25, and a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendment holder's not here? Is anyone else answering for a word? If not, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 126 abstentions, there were no 12 votes, and a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, paragraph 3 of the amendment was tabled by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 5(3). The government predicted a percentage reduction in tax on taxis and vehicles for driver training. My proposal is that this reduction be not 50%, as the government predicted, but 75%. The motive of my amendment is that taxi drivers live off their jobs and because the car they work for represents their basic means of working. So they probably use it for private purposes when they need to do some private work, take the children to the doctor, or something like that, but basically, these cars represent their basic means of work. That's how they feed their family. It's past the time when taxi drivers lived very well and they collected huge revenues a month. It's not like that today. You know there are a lot of problems among taxi associations, and especially with those who do their duty as taxi drivers unauthorized. But I understand those people, too, because those people are doing it because they don't have any other means to work. That's why I suggest that taxi drivers and those who train drivers, the percentage of tax cuts increase and be 75%, because that's exactly what these people live for. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4301	Anyone else want a word? He has the word Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4302	Obviously, when all citizens look at it, the fleet is old and I would like to repeat what has already been said, that out of 30% of the depreciation, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through additional consultations and discussions with many people who have cars and those who are their representatives, there has been a proposal that is now an integral part of the law, that it is not 30, as before, but 40%. And I would also like to tell the citizens of Serbia that they have additional depreciation in this proposal. So it's not six years anymore, it's faster, it's going to 40%, so we're going even to 8 years old. And as for the cab driver, there were a lot of consultations with them. They not only have these 40% for cars, and surely they are the largest, which are even older, have an additional 50% reduction. When it's combined, it's already a pretty low tax. There were a lot of discussions with them and they agreed it was an appropriate level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4303	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 39, there were no abstentions against 114, 17 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 6 following Article 1, a new position is added, which reads: "If a person registering or extending the registration of a vehicle has claims from the State on behalf of unpaid pensions, child benefits, handed-over agricultural products and the like, he can make registration of a vehicle without proof of paid tax." Some great reason for this amendment, which was submitted by the Serbian Unity Party, is not necessary. In practice, it has been shown that several times the state owes more to the taxpayer than the obligor owes to the state without, for example, being able to. to register his vehicle. Mr. Minister often mentions 1998 and 1999, ladies and gentlemen. It was bad in 1998 and 1999, and it was bad in 2000, but that's why DOS promised in the election campaign when it came to power that all harmful old taxes would be taken down and no new tax would be introduced. That's not true, gentlemen. Here, we've had a chance for a few days now, since the assembly ambush, that no taxes have been taken down and a new one is being introduced. Also, Mr. Secretary is talking about the pleasure of the taxi driver. How pleased taxi drivers are, we could see through their strike yesterday and the day before yesterday on the streets of Belgrade. The Serbian Unity Party, gentlemen, proposed two amendments a few days ago, which you did not accept. One amendment reads - if the debtor owes the state and the state owes the debtor, that the state cannot charge him 0.2% of the interest per day. That, Mr. Minister, is neither in Paris nor in the Netherlands, nor in any country of Europe or the world, which you often mention in your presentation. The second amendment of the Serbian Unity Party, which you also did not accept, and there is no logic not to be accepted, reads - if the state owes the debtor and the obligor to the state, that the state cannot make a forced payment day and night, as you gentlemen have suggested. Today we propose, and we believe that this amendment should be accepted not because the Serbian Unity Party has proposed it, but because a large number of citizens have a problem registering a vehicle, that if a taxpayer asks the state - he does not need a certificate of paid tax on registration of a vehicle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4305	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4306	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is being brought here into an interrelationship of a subject which, in itself, is not in any direct relationship. Requests from the state cannot be the basis for a non-discrimination of obligations towards the state. If we were to adopt the amendment that you have proposed, without the predetermined regulation which would determine the debt to the State, or the debt of the state to the taxpayer, we would come to a situation which in itself is not a situation that can be considered an appropriate orderly society. So we're starting from the assumption that neither citizens should owe the state nor the state should owe the citizens. In such a situation, it is logical to attach in the vehicle registration process a certificate of compliant obligations to the State. These are not commitments to the government or DOS, but to the state. Out of this, the state's assets will settle its obligations to those it has to. These two topics are not topics that need to be challenged and connected in the way that you have done. They're not connected in themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4307	Is that a replica? No, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic spoke differently when he was the opposition. But since the government is now under that maximum "State - that's me", now the state is something else, and the citizen is something else. It's not like that. The obligations are the same, Mr. Jovanovic. If the state owes me for a child's allowance, for a country, or for anything else, why couldn't I be relieved when paying for a vehicle registration? I don't see there's any illogicality here. I'm telling you that you said otherwise when you were an opposition, but then the state was to blame for everything. I did not, and I also believe that the laws passed by the Government of Mirko Marjanovic in 1998, which you keep pointing to, were very bad. But why should we now pass laws that are bad? I guess we should pass laws that are good, that's what this is about, let's be different from the Government of Mirko Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4309	He has the word of the People's MP Bogdanovic, as rapporteur of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4310	Dear Members of the Parliament, this is your most important example - amendments like this, which are accompanied by comments: why does DOS not accept the amendments of the opposition MPs? Why? Because these amendments have a certain dose of demagogy, and they don't talk about the essential thing. And what is the essential thing - what the state was doing. It is complete nonsense to claim in the amendment that if the state remains in debt to someone, that the tax should not be paid, because in a normal state, the state cannot be obliged to anyone, and that is a fundamental problem. I'm not talking about the Soviet Party, she didn't participate in it, there were such amendments and there were MPs of the current opposition, who were in power. They created a system in which the state can owe anyone and whatever it wants. It's inadmissible and it can't be allowed, that's the point. Absolutely, there's no need for such a thing. That is why it is unacceptable, because the serious state does not allow it to be in debt to its citizens. That's story number one. Story number two, when it comes to taxi drivers, it's exactly the same story. It's no problem with taxi drivers, when you talk to them, to pay taxes, the problem is to create conditions for them to work normally and make money. However, the state kept creating conditions that taxi drivers, as an extremely important service, could not function because they found a thousand ways, that wild taxi drivers would appear, that taxi drivers would appear who were not registered. So she created some regulations, conditions, laws that allowed her to have problems all the time. In fact, all serious people who take their jobs seriously are only asking the state to disable those who do illegal work, to disable those who work and do not pay taxes, and then those who do normal will be able to do so. Therefore, the entire tax reform, all tax laws, when designed, must be designed so that the state will be serious, that the state will ensure normal functioning of those entities that are legal, which operate on a legal basis, and all those who abuse it will be disabled. Therefore, a large number of these amendments could not be accepted. Of course, I can say -- it's not just that, some of the amendments were completely pointless, because they always said the same thing, and they changed percentages. Of course, it's about those amendments that actually made an obstruction, not the constructiveity of this Parliament's work. So that's what this is about. Therefore, this alone was the reason why such amendments are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4311	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4312	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the debt the state has to the citizens and the economy is concerned, it is, of course, one of the key problems that we have to deal with today, but it is an inheritance. We inherited debts, inherited empty funds and debts. This is mostly what we encountered today and for this reason, but from the moment the transitional government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, several measures have been taken. Let me explain to you and tell you only three things that have been done and done, and it will be done. First, all those delays that the state has towards budget users have already begun to reduce. There's been a lot of talk about child accessories this morning, and it's, I mean, one of the main things that's been done since October 5th and what this transitional government has done. Many families, many families, who were to wait two years to get what was prescribed by law, finally got it. And we go that way, and for those peasants who are owed and who are three years late, for their pensions, and we're going to deal with them, and all of those budget users that the state owes, of course, we want to provide what they're told by law. Not all of a sudden, there's not enough money, but it's certainly the first, the key thing we want to do, it's everywhere where the delay is, to honor what's prescribed by law. The second thing concerns debts that citizens have in terms of taxes and contributions. As we've seen, it's also business. There's been one provision for years. It's not this government, it's not even this government that introduced it, it's the 0.2% we talked about. As you know, at the same time as the Constitutional Court's decision, we have decided that this time this debt will be harmonised and that the interest will be what is prescribed on the federal level, where it should be, i.e. It tightens the interest which is regulated and which is at this point of inflation, which is moderate, and which will be more appropriate, i.e. prices at a little plus 0.5% per month. So that's the second thing where the state at the moment when citizens owe it, it counts for much less interest. And the third thing, the thing that's foreseen in this budget, that you adopted two and a half weeks ago, is that, not only will the state try to do those first two things, to reduce what it owes to the citizens. We just opened the question here, I didn't even talk about foreign exchange savings -- 5.4 billion dinars this year were provided in the Serbian state budget for that. Since yesterday, since 11:00 in the morning, you see for yourself, rows are in front of banks, not because someone can't raise some money, but because it was first secured for the first war by 110 marks per savings. It's just the first war, by the end of the year it'll be 440 marks per savings, and we'll respect that. Because there are two million savings, and that solves 80% of the problem of this foreign savings, and we're going to do it. And believe me, after that we won't forget anything, we won't forget that loan for Serbia's rebirth, and we have to respect it, and it's a law for someone to be cut off. And this power, believing that it is very important to restore the trust of our citizens to this power, whoever is in power, and this country above all, will honor it. But that's not enough, not enough to pay back the debts, not reduce that interest, that citizens and businesses owe to the state when they're late. We will, and that is the third thing I would like to say, provide additional funding this year, which is the year of change. And in this year's change, as the prime minister said in the opening statement, when this government was established and when you voted for it, it is that, if there is any cost of transition, it must not fall on those who are the most vulnerable and the poorest. And that is why, not only will we honor these 12 children's allowances, 12 pensions and 12 salaries, which are foreseen in the budget, we have provided three billion dinars in the budget, as a social fund for one-time assistance, to help our citizens, who can have difficulties at that time. That'll come out during the year. And not only that, we've predicted, and we've already pointed out, that some debts that have not yet come to order will be respected. This first concerns these child accessories and those bonds that come into circulation, which, normally, we should pay off next year. To conclude with this, the problem that has been created for the last 10 years, the debt of the state to citizens and businesses is a big problem that cannot be solved at once, but it is certainly one of the key things that we want to do this year, and next, because that is how our citizens and our businessmen regain trust in this country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4313	If no one answers their words anymore, I'll put Markovic's amendment to the vote. For 62 MPs, against 99, abstentioned four, did not vote 13, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 120, the abstentions were not, were not voted 28, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, essentially in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vitomir Plužarevic, Srboljub Zivanovic and Milos Nesovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4314	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, (I see there are no members of the Government) I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Tax laws on use, keeping and carrying goods. It's about cell phones taxes. In obtaining the right to use a mobile phone in the law, 200 dinars are intended to be paid for both a prepaid and a postpaid service, with the postpaid service due to pay later every month with an invoice, also 200 dinars, and the prepaid service pays 10% of each card. I also spoke in principle about this law and I don't think this is a practice in the world, that we in Serbia today have a million and 600,000 users, that it's no longer a luxury. I don't think this tax should be introduced. In the amendment, I suggested that it remain 100 dinars from the acquisition of the right of users, that there remain 100 dinars on the postpaid card, and that each card be 5%. I have the impression that a tax principle is being violated here. Two basics will be paid when it comes to mobile phones: property tax, that card and sales tax. I am telling you that in the world, in the international community, more and more efforts are being made, in many countries, to level mobile and fixed telephony. When it comes to prepaid service, I pointed out that there is no rhoming, that there is no international traffic and that it is not in the same conditions as postpaid. I would not ask Minister Djelic about this, the finance minister should provide funds, but I would ask the man who deals with telecommunications, that is Nenad Bogdanovic, and who is the director of Pupin - Alcatel, that he also comes out and says what he thinks about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4315	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 37, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted 21, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 10th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is another amendment which, as Mr Bogdanovic said, is pointless and obstructive. We had an amendment in 1998, or a taxi regulation on mobile phones known as the Shessel Regulation. We all agree she was bad and shouldn't have been introduced. But then the cell phone was really a luxury. Let us remember that at that time, a mobile phone cost as much as 10 to 12 thousand marks. Today we can buy that phone for 250 marks. The cell phone is no longer a luxury. Let's just think of the faces whose cell phone is finished with the only connection to the world, they're blind faces. My proposal is just to cut the tax, not to be 200 dinars, but 100 dinars, and the percentage for prepaid cards is not 10 for one card, but 5%. So I guess if we had one bad regulation before, we don't need to have one bad law now. I apologize if this amendment is pointless and obstructive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4317	He has the word Mr. Nenad Bogdanović, the Committee's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4318	Of course, this amendment does not fall within the category of these amendments, although the fact that data is not re-produced as it is. When it was introduced in 1998, so when that famous mobile tax was introduced, then the black tax rate was 12.5 marks, now it's 6.6. So it's twice as low as it was. I have to say very openly, we're still a country, unfortunately, in which mobile phone is a luxury. But you have to admit it's certainly not DOS' fault. It's the ones who made it a luxury. So, in normal countries, luxury is something else, and unfortunately, it's cell phones. There's one more thing, when it comes to mobile telephony, which those who care so much about the citizens' interest and the company's interests have not said -- everywhere in the world, it's impossible for illegal mobile phone trading to flourish. We have an illegal mobile phone store that allows mobile phone operators. We are the only country in Europe that can illegally trade mobile phones. If you don't know what that means, it means there's no normal sales, there's no normal taxes, there's no normal cabs, there's no prepaid phones in the West, they're smuggled across the border and sold in this country. When this country of ours is able to do anything like that, what I've been saying in my previous presentation, disabling it, then there won't be any need for any of these taxes. I am convinced that the country will make it possible next year, that next year this tax will disappear, as it, I see, hurts the most protectors of the interests of the people, especially the Socialists. And that mobile phone will become something perfectly normal and that instead of a million mobile phones, this country will have 5 or 6 million mobile phones and that the service tax will be so much, that this will be such a miserable number and nobody will think to introduce it. So the economy and the development of the country is something else. You don't need to look into this. I didn't say the amendment was pointless and what else I said, but things like this will soon be in this country, and I'm sure since January 2002, it won't make any more sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4319	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 116 abstentions, 17 did not vote, 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, which he proposed to delete, was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 107, a abstentioned one, was not voted 37, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. After the government's Suamandman has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 15th amendment he proposed to delete was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 29, there were no abstentions, no 35 votes, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Lazar Marjanski and Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 27, there were no abstentions against 113, not 33, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, point 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 116, there were no abstentions, no 29 votes, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, paragraph 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radovanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (WHISPERING) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4320	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, on the proposal for a law on tax on use, keeping and bearing goods, I have submitted an amendment, where point 8 is deleted in Article 15. In fact, I asked that the tax on the use of floating objects be abolished for holiday homes on water, for catering facilities and raft houses. A large number of MPs submitted amendments where he asked that, first of all, small boats, up to five metres long, free taxes, because everyone who lives by the river, I think of the Sava and the Danube, know perfectly well that these small boats serve fishermen as basic means of working. Those boats certainly aren't luxury. On the other hand, the story about the raft - houses and holiday homes on the water is a story that is identical to that heard by DOS MPs 100 times already. In what you call 'communist times', when we lived decently, when people had extra incomes, made vacations, went on vacations, then, like our gasters working out of the country, people bought or made small rafts on the water. These holiday homes, worth 5,000 to 6,000 marks, certainly can't be a luxury. That's why I asked for the tax on these houses to be completely abolished. Doctors say the water calms and that it's nice to sit by the water and watch the fish in the water, so don't deny the people the right to go along with this many tax laws to their raft, enjoy the water, watch the fish and think about how they will pay the tax. As for catering facilities, I mean rafts, rafts are places where a large number of young people gather, and not just young people, to spend either afternoon or to spend a pleasant evening. I pulled how much an average restaurant club will have to pay on the water side of the hotel "Yugoslavija" or on the mouth based on all your taxes and taxes. These are: sales tax on products and services, income tax on citizens, excise tax, tax on use, holding and carrying certain goods. In all, it will cost one average club owner about 300 to 350 thousand dinars per year. What remains of this average owner, except that prices increase enormously and reduce the number of guests anyway, or that some economic and gymnastics methods find a way to avoid tax, which is why you consciously push him to work against the state. Normally, I forgot another one of your promises. This should also be added to some hundred percent of the electricity price increase, so I would ask the minister that, in accordance with the European Community and IMF directives, according to which we have to comply with our tax laws, remember that we live in Serbia, that 10 years have been hard to live because of sanctions and wars, and that you first raise production, and then you charge taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4321	Mr. Chairman, DOS MPs are warning me not to talk about Kosovo. It is obvious that they do not like to talk about Kosovo, because I would have to talk about that spokesman Kofi Annan and Mr. Eckart said that the federal government and Mr. Momcilo Trajkovic had been aware of what was going to happen these days as early as February. You're lying. So he's lying to a spokesman named Kofi Annan. I'm glad he's lying. I only went out to confirm to you, both myself and the citizens of Serbia that the Law on the founding of the tax system on a federal level, absolutely knows nothing as a category of taxation of any of the boats without motor power, over boats from five to ten meters, to floating catering facilities and rafts, i.e. the house of the surface and so on. So, according to the Tax System Base Act as a tax category, there is nothing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today's DOS, has proposed to be taxed. That the citizens know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4322	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 109 abstentions, one did not vote 32, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 106, a abstentioned no one voted 36, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zivanko Radovanchev submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 16a be added after article 16. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4323	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods to the part relating to the Tax Liberation. In the third part of this proposed law, which refers to the tax on the use of boats, floating plants and yachts, I suggested that Article 16a be added after Article 16, which reads: "professional fishermen are exempt from the obligation to pay taxes on the use of a boat of up to 10 metres and a power engine of up to 22.5 kNj". I believe that a professional fisherman through the payment of an annual permit to perform basic work is already burdened enough, respecting all this and the weight of this profession. The vessel and engine are, above all, a fisherman's basic means of carrying out this activity, and the same professional fisherman once paid the state when buying a boat and a motor, through the payment of sales taxes. To avoid debt, I only have to be sure that you will vote in favour of this amendment, respecting all the weight of this profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4324	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, then I put this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 96, two abstentions, 29 did not vote, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Radovanovic submitted the 20th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will briefly - on the proposal for a law on taxes on use, holding and carrying goods - I have submitted an amendment to Article 20 in the section relating to the tax on the use of aircraft and aircraft. I asked the amendment to release taxes on that basis: air carriers, flight schools and aero clubs. Unlike motor vehicles, which I do not consider to be a luxury, I believe that the general social significance of these groups that I have proposed requires that they be fully tax-free. Article 18. The draft law and legal and natural persons on whose name aircraft are registered in the register are responsible for paying taxes on this basis. In Article 19. The bill defines the amount of money to be deposited in the state register. Since the Law does not define the JAT's relationship as a state-owned enterprise, as well as the country-run relations - the flight school - the Aero Clubs, I think it is necessary to cut or cut taxes for these groups. In particular, this refers to the part that is related to sports and recreational activities, where aircraft and aircraft are up to four seats taxed under this law with 60,000 dinars and over four with 100,000 dinars. Aero clubs, flight schools, and paratroopers clubs must obtain extremely expensive craftsmen, extremely expensive equipment, and if we tax them additionally, and you all know the purpose of these occupations well, it will be a burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4326	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 104 abstention, no one voted 22, a total of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Radovanovic submitted an amendment proposing that members 21 to 26 be deleted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4327	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, honourable presidents, on the proposal for a tax code on use, holding and carrying goods, I have submitted an amendment requesting the removal of members 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26. A bill relating to the tax on registered weapons. The bill's promoter says the arms tax is paid in hunting and sports weapons, trophy weapons and personal security weapons. I really don't know what it's like in France, Mr. Minister, but there's one rule with us that a horse, a rifle, and a woman don't give to anyone. You've also taxed horsepower, cars, you've taxed weapons, and this is the last thing left to do, so it's full of hats. I'll tell you why I don't think this law should be passed. First, when buying weapons, sales tax is paid and the country is fully settled. Secondly, if the average price of hunting weapons is 250 to 300 marks, and the bill's proposer offers a rate of 3,000 dinars per carabin, that means that 300 marks are paid another 100 tax marks. Totally illogical and no explanation necessary. Third, taxing a trophy weapon is completely pointless. I don't know if the legislator knows how many members of the Yugoslav Army and the police have in their homes the weapons they received as a reward or as a gift when they retire. On all those expensive trophies, people will have to pay taxes. On the other hand, from the time of the Balkan wars in Serbian families, a trophy weapon was transferred, from the time we fought the Liberation Wars. That weapon remains, and in every Serbian house is a dear memory. Fourth, hunters, or hunting associations, besides hunting, are engaged in breeding, eating, protecting and selecting savages. These hunting activities have general social significance, and in order for these hunters to be able to do so they have to hunt, and to have what money they need not pay taxes on it. On the other hand, hunting tourism is an extremely profitable branch, because a large number of Western European hunters are coming to our country and bringing in good foreign exchange income, and that, dear colleagues, has a connection, because in order for a hunter from Italy to come to us, he has to come to a high-quality hunting ground, and he has to maintain to some extent. Five, ten years ago in Serbia, there were about 100,000 registered hunters, and today the number with the fall of standards has fallen to 70 to 80,000, and this definitely confirms that hunting is not a sport of luxury. The sixth, by introducing a charge, or I guarantee that the number of poachers will not be reduced, but will certainly be increased. Seven, apart from a rifle, every hunter requires the necessary hunting equipment, which is also bought and all those hunters are already paying taxes to the state. Eight, I ask the promoters, in this case, the Minister of Finance, does he know how many Serbian households there are in the hill-mounted areas and what those men's guns mean, what those people's guns mean when they're being defended by the beast, what those people mean when they have a gun knocked on their doors by those who want to commit robbery, robbery, or, God forbid, these socks from our minister. This is definitely what I'm trying to say is that guns aren't a luxury and weapons taxes don't need to be introduced. Since Article 24, apart from the carabins, hunting rifles and everything else, taxed onion and crossbows, I suggested to the minister that darts and slings be inserted, as this could be a very dangerous weapon. In the end, I would ask you all, since the government has submitted an amendment to our demands, that you of DOS thank us socialists, because our idea has led you to a tax base of 3,000 dinars and therefore, thank us socialists for giving you a good idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4328	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. 40, against 105, one abstention, did not vote 20, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment, with correction. Since the amendment of the Government has been approved by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4329	My fellow Members, the Honorable Presidency, I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is two members, 138th and 141st, relating to this amendment submitted by the Government. Namely, Article 138. The Rules of Procedure provide that the deadline for the amendment is three days before the date for the meeting. Article 141 The Rules of Procedure provide that, in the course of the review of the Amendment Act, they are to be able to submit the legislator, the competent committee, or the Government, but only if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of another amendment. As far as I know, the government did not accept either amendment, and there were eight or nine of them on this bill. By letter of the government dated 17 April, so yesterday, the government notified and also asked the National Assembly to accept so-called. technical error, i.e. correction of the text of the earlier amendment to Article 24. Proposal for a tax on use, holding and carrying goods, relating to the payment of taxes on registered weapons. Obviously, it is from the explanation of this letter, and here I have this amendment from the Government, that it is not about any correction, or technical error, but about a new amendment that reduces the amount of tax liabilities, which, in fact, acknowledges that these tax obligations were too high. This government's conduct is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and would represent a dangerous precedent in all future situations. I believe that, acting under the Rules of Procedure, the Government could agree with amendments from the MPs, which are similar to the contents, making these amendments an integral part of the law, instead of choosing the way to abuse the Institute of Amendments by harsh violations of the Rules of Procedure. If the National Assembly accepts such a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a precedent is created that will require the same treatment in situations where the promoters of these, call for corrections and technical errors themselves to be MPs. I ask the Assembly to declare this violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4330	I believe that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure because the amendment was submitted on a timely basis on 5 April 2001 at 18 hours, after which only the correction of the amendment was submitted, but we can plead with the vote if you are not satisfied with my answer. (Dear Tomic, from the scene: not true. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4331	In order for the MPs to know what the chairman and I are talking about, I hold in my hand the amendment to the government that carries the date 17.4.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4332	We got it, we all got it. It's not an amendment, it's just a correction, technical correction,...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4333	Please, this is paper, and the paper says the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4334	No, I don't. Please, I mean, it's clear, it even says, I ask you to respect our apology and accept the amendment of the other one, which reads - correction. If you're not satisfied, we can plead by voting. It's clearly indicated that it's a correction, it doesn't say that it's an amendment. Please, would you like to make a statement about the injury? Mr. Ivkovic, you in the Rules of Procedure, too? About the amendment? Just to ask Mr. Zarko Obradovic... (Zarko Obradovic, from the place: I would beg to vote. ) Okay, so MP Zarko Obradovic made an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs to plead by voting whether the injury exists or not. For 39, against 110, two were abstentioned, not voted 22, of the 173 present. So, most of the votes were decided that no violation of the Rules of Procedure was committed, which was pointed out by MP Zarko Obradovic. I now give my word to the MP, Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4335	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have just voted the following - that it is possible for someone to submit an amendment on 5 April, and on 17 April, the same amendment has minor technical errors, so respect it under the date of 5 April. Let's see what these tiny technical mistakes are. Small technical mistakes that instead of the 3,000 dinar tax...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4336	Mr. Ivkovic, we have already spoken of this, you have called as president of the parliamentary group to comment on the submission of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4337	I'm talking about the amendment. So instead of 3,000 dinars, it's 600 dinars, is it possible that a serious government makes such a technical mistake that a hunting rifle instead of 1,000 dinars is 4,000 dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4338	Mr. Ivkovic, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4339	Unserious work of the government of the Republic of Serbia that kills people in Pristina.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4340	The Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word. Please, let's hear it from the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4341	Just one apology from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have two questions -- the first question, and that is essentially the draft laws proposed to the National Assembly, and we have proposed one amount. Then there was a public debate, and I absolutely didn't want to say that through this public debate there was an expression of various ideas, of position. We are in line with these additional consultations, showing hearing about what is being said and what is being done and because we have had various contacts with various DOS parties, and even outside the DOS, have come to the conclusion that we have changed some amounts. It seems to me that it's called democracy, and I absolutely don't do it, and if we have to do it in the next few weeks, and months, to change some more things, the only brake to do it will be that we have to have much more stability in our tax system and various provisions. Otherwise, if practice shows that something is inappropriate, there will be no vanity and we will change it. As for the other thing, and it's technical, there's also in that first amendment and in the second one, it's the intensity to reduce that figure, simply, there was one technical mistake that we missed in terms of the indent, and we just wanted to accept it, and I thank the MPs for having accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4342	I thank Mr. Secretary for the discussion. We have another report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. MP Dragan Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4343	Obviously, there really was a violation of Article 138 here. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4344	Excuse me, didn't I hear a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4345	Article 138. Gentlemen, the MPs, if this isn't about replacing the thesis -- we can't call democracy a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and if we're at one of the previous discussions here, we're talking about the Rules of Procedure and the arrangement of relations, how we should behave in this assembly home, we can't violate it now just because a technical error has been formally subsidized. In fact, it is a matter of respecting the fundamental objections made in the process of debate under this law. Taking into account also the structure of the owner of hunting weapons, the government of the Republic of Serbia, with the awareness that it has made a failure, calling it a technical error, carried out a redecoration of its amendment and amended the figures in the amendment. So it has the classic character of the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4346	Mr. Tomic, we've already heard and voted that there is no violation of Article 138, and I don't know if you were there, your colleague, Zarko Obradovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4347	We can only call this your technical force, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4348	We already made a statement once. I find there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 138, which was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. Members of the 24th Amendment in the same text, who proposed that this member be deleted, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Srboljub Zivanovic. They're not present. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 24, against 113, one was abstention, not 32, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4349	Dear People's MPs, if taxes on luxury cars, yachts, aircraft and aircraft are excluded, this law becomes unnecessary and unnecessary. I have specifically submitted an amendment to Article 24 that regulates the tax on registered weapons for which the armed list has been issued. According to the original proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, these taxes, for example, amounted to 3,000 dinars for a hunting carbine and 1000 dinars for a hunting rifle. Pressed by numerous amendments by opposition parties, the government of the Republic of Serbia revised this original proposal and in fact adopted our amendments, which is good, it is only wrong that it does not recognise that these are our amendments and which in this situation shows one defiance. Nor is it right that, on the basic texts of the law, the government of the Republic of Serbia gives a large number of amendments. That says it's both inconclusive and irresponsible to the new DOS government. During this morning's debate, we also talked about breaking the Constitution. When it comes to the 1992 Constitution, it was very, and now it is a good constitution, because the 1992 Constitution provided for the equality of the peoples of Serbia-Montenegro and the Serbs and Montenegrins. All new solutions given, unless Milo Djukanovic leaves on April 22nd, will be much worse than the 1992 Constitution. Under the new DOS proposal, we will have a single-home assembly, with an equal number of MPs from Serbia-Montenegro, and one such constitution will mean inequality, primarily of the Serb people from Serbia, who has 8 million inhabitants, and Montenegro several hundred thousand. So, everything that was done in 1992 and later, under the leadership of the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic, was better than it is done today under the new DOS rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4350	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4351	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 102, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28, out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Since he's not here, does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 105, a abstentioned one, was not voted 36, out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted the 24th amendment together. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 25, against 105, there were no abstentions, no 38 votes, out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Kurjački. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4352	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the government, fellow MPs, the essence of my wish and the wishes of 80,000 hunters is summed up in Article 25, which I will explain, or amendment, since the fate of the amendment is never certain until it is passed. I have also submitted a parallel amendment to Article 24 which speaks of the tax on registered weapons and the amounts provided for that. So in this amendment, I have proposed to reduce the amount of taxes on hunting weapons, as well as to eliminate some of it. Meanwhile, the government has respected these amendments, as we have already heard from previous speakers, and implemented a reduction in these amounts. It remains only unclear why the government, in addition to hunting weapons, reduced the amount of taxes only by a small-caliber revolver, why not for a small-caliber gun, or a small-caliber rifle, if all this is a firearm and if that is the basis for the reduction. However, given that this amendment of the Government has arrived in the meantime, I did not propose it with my amendment and I cannot even discuss it, and given that most of my requests have been respected through the amendment of the Government, I am withdrawing this amendment through my amendment, and I will explain the substance through the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4353	Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I find that MP Arsen Kurjaski withdrew his amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party has tabled an amendment to Article 24. I will not explain this amendment, but I will only say that so far all the amendments proposed by the Serbian Unity Party have been corrected by the government with approximate figures proposed by the Serbian Unity Party. And now the government is proposing 3,000 dinars to pay taxes on a hunting carbine, and we say, let's cut to 1,000, they cut to 600 dinars. The Serbian Unity Party at the beginning, when it proposed this amendment, felt that when it comes to hunting rifles already found in hunters who bought them years ago they should not be charged taxes, and those citizens who buy weapons these days, from the day this tax comes into force, to be charged to them. Also, Mr Djelic, when I spoke about the previous amendment, says it doesn't matter that the state owes tax bonds, specifically to agricultural producers, and for previous discussions, he said it was demagogy. It's not a demagogy. I live in the country and I know how a peasant lives in Pomorava County, in the Rasin County, in Vojvodina. It is not fair if the state owes a peasant on behalf of a farm pension, unpaid sugar beet fees, and all Serbia's sugars are owed to farmers for their turn-in sugar tail, it cannot at the same time if the debtor owes the state to charge him interest, i.e. to make a forced payment. If Mr. Minister, who lived in Paris until a month ago, could not understand it, at least he should have suggested that by the day if the debtor owed to the state and the state owed the debtor, that when the state settled the obligation he had to him, he would have charged him interest and everything else Mr. Djelic proposed these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4355	Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ). I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 105, a abstentioned one, was not voted 22, out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic to Article 24th. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. (The amendment holder is not present. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 37 MPs, against 108, there were no abstentions, there was no 24 vote, a total of 169. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24(1), the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. There were no abstentions for 21 MPs, against 105, not 43, a total of 169. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. There is a word from MP Stevan Guduric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4356	In Article 113, it states that MPs are obliged to use only their identification cards, so let the other row on this side show how anyone voted, by Mr. Chad, one, and another, who does not sit there, please check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4357	Well, let me tell you, we've had a complaint like this before. I can tell by the document whether it was recorded that the MP voted and that I realized he wasn't in the O.R., but that doesn't prove that he was, of course, like a man who wasn't present, he couldn't even abuse his own card. So you have to tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4358	So who could, or Mr. Chad...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4359	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4360	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that Article 113 sets out the circumstances under which the vote is held, using the cards, but sir, it does not say anywhere in article 113 that the MP has to sit in the chair where the card is. So, the gentleman sits next to his card and voice all the time, and please, make sure in person, and in such a way show basic respect for us, because you are constantly accusing us of infunctioning the Assembly. We're doing wonderful work, there's 160 of us, there's no question of quorum, and it'd be good to keep doing that. So, look at this card and see if anyone has misused the right to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4361	There is a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4362	I just want to ask you to look at the screen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4363	I have repeatedly asked from the pay phone that MPs, who are not in the O.R., take their identification cards with them. The reason is quite simple - not only does it say in the Rules of Procedure, but let us respect some basic democratic principle. It is simply not a valid result of the vote, if the MP leaves his card with forgetfulness, or warmly. Simply, we can get into a situation where one vote is decisive in some vote, in some essential matter, and it is indeed an obligation for every MP to take an identification card on his way out of the O.R. and on his way in to identify himself by entering. I suppose that's what MPs do, and all MPs ask that those who forget it, warn, or get their card out of the device. It's just something we can't afford ourselves. On Article 25 of the amendment, essentially in the same text, the MPs Zivanko Radovanchev and Arsen Kurjački submitted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? There's a word from MP Zhivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4364	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for this law on tax on use, holding and carrying goods, to the part relating to the tax exemption, in the fifth part of this proposal, that is, the proposal for this law on the tax on registered weapons. I suggested adding item 3 in Article 25, which reads: "A hunting rifle, one piece, a hunting carabin, one piece." So, to be perfectly clear, I suggested that gun owners be released from paying taxes for one hunting rifle and one carabin. One brief explanation: hunting in the Republic of Serbia deals (and I have heard this information today) about 80,000 citizens, and hunters have their own activity of exceptional importance, in any case, to protect the forest, animal world, and primarily to protect health. One number of residents of this Republic, living in mountainous kilns, hunting rifle and carabin, are necessary for their personal protection and safety, as well as for the protection of the livestock fund. So hunting rifles and carabines are neither a luxury nor of prestigious importance, but very often a means of survival, or survival. To be clear, I'm for one hunting rifle and one carabin. The proposal is to get rid of the tax, and on the other hand, to make it the way it is in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4365	Anybody else answer for a word? There is the word of the Messenger of the people Arsen the Qur'an.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4366	Right, this is the essence of these things we've been talking about so far. So I have submitted the amendment, as well as my fellow MPs, to Article 25. The bill, which speaks of a tax on registered weapons, is not to be paid on, so we add point 3) which reads: "One hunting carbine and one hunting rifle owned by one owner". In the context of the Government of the Bill of Taxation on Use, Sticking and Wearing of Goods, Part 2 states: "the introduction of additional objects of taxation, based on the use of goods, significantly extends the basis and more justly implements the system of taxation, proportionate to the economic power of the debtor". So this absolutely cannot be accepted as an explanation for taxation of hunting weapons. Because hunting in the sense of hobby is a huge number of people in Serbia. The average hunter, we can say, is absolutely sharing the fate of his people. He must be in a very invisible material position. Our hunting system isn't elitist, it's the people's hunting system, still. It confirms a figure of over 110,000 hunters in the 1990s, which officially existed. Unfortunately, this figure is now between 70 and 80,000, precisely because of the general fall of standards, all of them, including the hunters themselves. So, because of the overall poverty that is present, and the legal obligations that exist in hunters, legal hunting is increasingly becoming the privilege of the rich, and poaching, unfortunately, is becoming more and more pronounced. Taxing hunting weapons will certainly increase the number of illegal weapons, so let's be sure, people will be free of that weapon. So, that will put the game at risk in hunting grounds and the general security of the citizens. The average hunter in Serbia owns one carabin and one hunting rifle. It's a necessary condition to discharge this hobby. Anyone who knows how to hunt, he knows it's a minimum. By doing that, we can lead under luxury. It is therefore very inhumane to place ordinary, average hunters in the same plane as gun collectors, yacht owners, craftsmen, etc. Another piece of information that is very important and I believe most people do not know - unlike those expensive collector rifles, the ordinary average domestic half-carabine and hunting rifle move between 100 and 150 German marks per month. These are very small values. Therefore, the proposal to release taxes is one carbin and one hunting rifle of the same owner, hunter, member of a hunting society, and the rest of the weapons to be taxed on the government's proposal. That was the amendment we suggested. Meanwhile, 10 to 15 minutes ago, we had a conversation with the finance minister. He informed us that the government would accept such an amendment, by agreeing to accept that we would withdraw this amendment, because it was not best defined. I've defined him as one hunting carbine and as one hunting rifle owned by one owner, and the desire is to protect primarily hunters, because he has weapons that aren't in the hands of hunters, and primarily hunters in this story are important. So, the amendment submitted by MP Kermeci Karolj is identical to what the Hunting Union of Serbia has submitted. Therefore, I am withdrawing this amendment only for reasons to be more precisely defined and the minister will explain this second part.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4367	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we were thinking about the law introducing the arms tax, we had an understanding for those who can certainly be under the priority of the need of the state. With the agreement of the Ministry of Finance, we have decided that the most appropriate amendment is the amendment of Mr. Karol Kermeti and to add it to Article 25 of the 3rd position, which says: "that one hunting caravan, or a combined hunting weapon, will.... "I want to tell you that in Serbia a million and 100,000 pieces of weapons have been registered. With this amendment, we took away 200 million dinars from the budget. But we agree with the arguments that have been made both during this debate and during the consultation, which contribute to the needs of citizens, whose hunting weapon is not a luxury and is not a status symbol. For a reminder, I want to tell you that in the time we criticise, it seems more argumentative to me than the opposition does today, and the hunting carbine and the hunting rifle were taxed with 33 German marks, and that we, with the planned start tax, have put 46% less burden on taxpayers. So we tried to bring the needs of the budget and the possibilities of the citizens into line, but we still agree with this amendment to add Article 25 to Article 3, which will free the hunters from taxes in the way I've specified it, and I think that's correct. We thank the government for having managed to accept this kind of amendment that denied the tax funds of about 200 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4368	If no one is answering for a word anymore, I find that MP Kurjački has withdrawn his amendment, and I am putting Zivanka Radovanchev's amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4369	Of course, no finance minister is easy to give up revenue for a budget. It seems to me that by accepting this amendment two things differentiated. First of all, progressiveness, that is, economic arrest. Some DOS MPs, especially those two who have submitted this amendment, have pointed to the situation of those holding hunting grounds and hunting as a hobby. By doing so, by taxing, we go out to meet them. However, since fellow Jovanovic mentioned that we have a million pieces of weapons, I would just like to remind myself, as information for this Assembly: we have more than 560,000 pieces of weapons, i.e. guns and guns. If we look at what happened on the streets of Belgrade and other cities, and those small villages where it was safe before, it's obvious that there's a problem in the other kind of weapon we're talking about right now. And that's, I'm sure it's a topic for another debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4370	Let me repeat, we have determined that Mr. Kuryatsky has withdrawn the amendment. I put the amendments to the 25th Proposer Živanko Radovanchev's vote. For 42, against 93, with five abstentions, it did not vote 16, a total of 156 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4371	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I have submitted the amendment to Article 25, where point 3 is added after point 2 which reads "the weapons owned by members of the hunting associations". So, hunting rifles and carabins. It's a completely identical amendment to these amendments that were now spoken of, with not being precise about a single rifle, but referring to a hunting weapon. Therefore, this applies only to those who are registered members of the Hunters' Association. The reasons for this proposal need not be explained much. It's already been said here, in addition to the fact that hunters are in the position of turning, not just sports and hobbies, to directly influence the development of hunting tourism, so from the membership fee they pay, which is not small, which is perhaps around 1,200 dinars, is invested in the rejuvenation. As I said, hunters who pay membership fees of 1,200 dinars a year use that membership fee to restore game in hunting grounds. In the past few years, we've had a lot of problems growing game. You know that almost the entire territory of Serbia was first flooded, and later it was a drought as an elemental disaster, which directly affected the rearing of young savages, and that huge efforts were needed to fix this situation. Therefore, it is certainly this proposal that has finally been accepted by the government to free taxpayers from paying taxes. (President: I ask you not to pay attention to the packing of two MPs. Let's listen to the MP and decide what our job is. What's so dramatic that the whole room burns down now? Therefore, I think it is justified to request that hunters be released from paying their taxes on hunting weapons, on the carabine and on the hunting rifle, and that it is important that this amendment (although it is an amendment that I or my colleague from the DOS Parliament Club, as well as my colleague Kurjački, is not accepted at all) and that this people who have certain problems, as I said, and which I said, let them be free of these costs. Another reason for that is that here is often mentioned that previous authorities and the previous regime introduced these taxes; taxes rather than taxes, the difference is that they were not charged in the previous year. Therefore, there is no new or loss or take-up, for the reasons set out here in the opening statement, and therefore this amendment should be adopted by the Government, but taking into account all amendments to the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4372	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 107, two abstentions, 21 of the 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Karol Kermeci. The government has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. The Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Certain Goods, as I said, of Article 25(1), adds point 3, which should read: "A hunting weapon, one hunting carbin or a combined hunting weapon, and one hunting rifle of members of the Hunting Association, who owns a hunting ticket for the current year, issued in accordance with Article 39(5). Hunting law." I don't think we should explain much, because we heard and saw how by DOS, as well as by the opposition, that they made proposals when considering this law in principle, and also, they gave similar amendments, I can say, almost in the same text. I think this proposal is acceptable. I would like to ask Mr. Minister, and also members of Parliament, to vote for the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4374	The minister has pleaded to accept this amendment. That's what we said. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 121 against two, the abstentions were not voted 33, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 26, paragraph 3 of the amendment was tabled by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Soviet Union has proposed, when it comes to hunting weapons, in Article 26, that instead of 15 days, from the day he gets the owner of a hunting rifle, a solution to pay taxes, to postpone and be delayed at the end of the year. Because, dear, honored gentlemen, the hunters didn't know DOS was going to introduce taxes on hunting rifles. You didn't say that in the election campaign, so let's give them some time to get the money. Next, let's at least catch one rabbit or pheasant, I'm not a hunter, but in September or October months when they catch at least one rabbit or pheasant, and then charge them taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4376	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 115, a abstentioned one, was not voted 12, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 30th amendment, which he proposed to delete, was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (Niko) I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 105, there were no abstentions, there were no 47 votes, of a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in Article 31. The bill proposed that the provisions of Articles 21 to 26 of this law be applied from 1 January 2001. In accordance with Article 134(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 134 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Finance Committee has assessed that there is a general interest in the feedback of members 21 to 26 as set out in Article 31. It's a bill of law. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia contained in Article 31. The draft law, under which the provisions of Articles 21 to 26 are applied from 1 January 2001, have a return fact for which there is a general interest. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this proposal by a vote. For 109 against 42, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the Government's proposal concerning the retroactive fact of the members of the law from 21 to 26. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Articles 21 to 26 of this Law, as set out in Article 31. It's a bill of law. Since we have completed the review of the bill's proposal, in particular the amendment decision, does the proposal's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the Bill on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing goods. I put the bill on tax on use, holding and carrying goods in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 124 against 40, no one abstentioned, no voted 8, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Taxes on the Use, Holding and Wearing of goods. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Tax Tax Act on Financial Transactions You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Ljubomir Mucic, Bozidar Vucurović, Petar Jojic, Miroljub Veljkovic, Stevo Dragisic, Dusan Ilic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Veroljub Arsic, Natasa Jovanovic, Goran Cvetanovic, Bozidar Vujic, Slobodan Janjic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At a session of the Committee on Finance, MP Dusan Ilic withdrew amendments to Articles 9 and 12. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Finance and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the principled review of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search and before moving to a decision on the bill, in principle, we need to make clear on the proposal of MP Dragan Jovanovic to hold a call for the vote on this bill. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 38, against 115, no one abstained, voted 16, a total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I put the draft law on financial transaction taxes on principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 116, against 40, no one abstained, voted 14, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill, in particular. National MP Tomislav Nikolic proposed that members of the 1st to 14. The bill is deleted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 111, one abstention, 29 did not vote, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MPs Slobodan Janjic, Bozidar Vujic and Stevo Dragisic in the same text. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 109, no one abstained, voted 32, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Natasa Jovanovic in the same text. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 108, one abstention, did not vote 31, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroljub Veljkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 112, no one abstained, voted 31, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 111, no one with abstention voted 32, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 26, against 110, the abstentions, did not vote 32, a total of 168. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 24, against 104 abstentions, there was no 39 vote, a total of 167. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Mucic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 12 be added after article 11. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the people of the Colubar region, let's interrupt this monotony and vote. I'd really like to explain carefully the amendment I filed, or the introduction of a new member of the 12th in the Financial transaction Tax Act. With this amendment, I proposed that the funds achieved on the basis of this tax be used with one half to rebuild the country, and with the other half to eliminate the effects of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, in ways and under conditions established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the following arguments, without a political mark, should allow the MP's majority to vote for him and that they are more than convincing. First, I would like to remove immediately the dilemma that emerged in the means of information, which came from the municipality of Mininica, which is that in 2000, based on the contribution of solidarity to the removal of earthquake earthquakes in the Kolubar district, 1.6 billion dinars have been achieved, removing all the ominous information in the means of information and in some ministers about the sensational disappearance of around 2 billion dinars intended to remove the effects of earthquakes. Starting from the funds achieved in 2000, by applying the planned growth rate to a slightly 30 per cent budget for 2001, the real amount of funding for the current year is about 2.2 billion dinars, which is also the provisional budget plan for January - March and regulated, given that 550 million dinars were foreseen, namely 25% of the total planned and planned funds to be realised in 2001. However, with the annual budget plan for 2001, the position of 68 budgets for the country's reconstruction and reconstruction and development of the Kolubar district, only 3 billion dinars were planned. The analogy of last year's achievement and my amendment to the Kolubara County should be 1.5 billion dinars. I'm asking you, where's one-third of the funds gone already, 32% of the planned revenue? Probably for covering the planned budget deficit. Evil hunches revealed by the urban and construction minister that in 2001 only a billion dinars, namely even 17% less than the funds transferred in the previous year, were foreseen for the reconstruction and development of the Kolubar district affected by the earthquake. 1.2 billion dinars have been transferred. Gentlemen, it comes out today that these funds are only for the municipality of Mininica, which I support, which is exactly 44% of the total planned funds for 2001 and 2.2 billion dinars, respectively. Ministers, what's going on with the other five municipalities? He didn't just crash an earthquake through the administrative borders of villages and municipalities, did he? How will you, and I don't know, explain that the neighbouring villages of Bosnjanović and Milavac in the municipality of Ljig are not damaged by an earthquake, and only five to six kilometers from the epicentre of Maljevic, while villages 30 to 40 kilometers away in the municipality of Milica are. Or, even more striking and worse, in the Roma village of Nanomir will be built on the left side of the road, because they belong to the municipality of Minica, and on the right side of the same Roma settlement, the house will not be built because they belong to the municipality of Lajkovac or the hosts on the other side of the river Toplica or Kolubara in the territory of the municipality of Valjevo, that they have no right to do so, and so far they have all been equal. Gentlemen, don't forget that the earthquakes are moving north and northwest, the municipalities of Lykovac and Lazarec, the municipality of Ub, which is present these days. Gentlemen, to this day, the earthquake never knew the administrative limits, but it's possible for you. Mr. Minister of Urbanism and Building, who is not there, I wanted to give the map to the Colubary County, since in the last three months he did not find fit to visit the Colubary County and make sure that the sports center in Mionica and my native Osecina, so he will not forbid me being born in Osecina, also started before the earthquake and was not damaged by an earthquake. I don't know why that's potential. I wanted to give him one map of the Colubary region to see where these villages were, since in three months he couldn't make it to the Colubary County. Gentlemen Ministers, it was Sloba who brought this to us, and you will, on your own chance, end it. Gentlemen, political and informative sensations are in the past, and I believe that this amendment should be supported, and especially the MPs from Valjev, whose interest the municipalities of Mininica, the municipalities of Valjevo and the entire Kolubar district.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4378	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 100, one abstention, did not vote 32, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 28, against 112 abstentions, there was no 35 vote, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular and a decision on amendments. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the draft law in particular and put to the vote the draft law on financial transaction tax, as a whole. I ask the MPs to vote. For 121 against 38, abstention one, did not vote 15, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a tax on financial transactions. According to the Rules of Procedure? (Employee Vuksic, from the post: MP questions. ) The parliamentary issues will be at the end of the session, in one two weeks. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the law on housing you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Miroljub Veljkovic, Borislav Pelevic, Milorad Mirčić, Natasa Jovanovic, Stevan Kesejic, Radojko Petric, Filip Golubović, Dragan Colić, Rajko Baralic, as well as the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Filip Golubovic informed the National Assembly that he was withdrawing his amendment to Articles 1 and 2. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. We need to make a statement about Parliamentarian Dragan Jovanovic's proposal to call the vote on this bill. Please vote. In favour of vote 37, against 115, one was abstentioned, was not voted 22, and a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I put to the vote the draft law amending the House Act, in principle. In favour of the 119s against 39, the abstentions were not voted 18, and a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill, in particular. Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milorad Mircic, Radojko Petrovic and Natasa Jovanovic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4379	Dear President, honourable MPs, respected members of the government, the Bill on the Amendment of the Law on Housing, the government proposes to abolish the obligation for businesses, institutions and state authorities to pay 1.3% of the contribution to gross earnings from which funds for solid housing were provided and for employees of economically poor employers and to address the housing needs of wartime disabled and members of their families from the aftermath of the armed actions after August 1990. It is known that there are a large number of employees with 20, 30 or more years of employment without a settled housing issue. It is the same situation with wartime wartime people and members of their families as a result of armed actions after 17 August 1990. From the funds raised in the solidarity funds was built and a large number of mostly modest apartments were divided, and a significant number of favourable housing loans were approved. This is an extremely large contribution -- that this category of low-income citizens, and disabled people, solve one of the most complex issues of life, which is to provide a roof over their heads. The existence of these funds was also important for the engagement of a construction operation, as well as for several different manufacturing companies working for a construction operation. The government is now proposing to introduce a profit tax of 3.5%, which would replace a contribution to the use of public goods of general interest, which is paid mainly by municipalities in terms of 3 to 5% and a contribution to solid housing paid at 1.3% on gross earnings. It leaves the possibility for municipalities to set out the purpose of spending these funds, including works for solid housing. However, knowing the needs of municipal spending municipalities and how much they have spent so far, for example, Belgrade has so far spent 5% of the contributions it has paid on personal income. Thus, this is almost certain that if the government's proposal is adopted, solid housing construction is shut down. It would be good to talk today about how to implement the programme that the SPS government started to build 10,000 apartments for young professional staffs and other citizens who do not have apartments, and to expand this programme, because it is known how many construction operations are pulling forward and other productive activities and the overall launch of the economy from this conceit that we have found ourselves in. I realized, yesterday, Minister Schumarac told this speaker that the government was correcting the proposal, but I didn't get it well, I didn't get it in writing, whether the contribution would be paid from 0.3% to 1%. I don't know how it's regulated, whether it's something declarative again, something in the fog, but all the odds are that in public should turn out like there's something left, and in fact, there's no obligation, as soon as it's declared, and this is going to be difficult to realize. I understand that we need to verify our legislation with European Union legislation in order to ensure smooth co-operation, and business, in terms of developing overall relations. That verification is necessary, but I don't think it implies that it means full copying of those laws, because every country has its specifics and when it comes to unification, it's not required to be blind copying. I think this has proved very practical with us, and it's no distraction for our international co-operation, including these flows, nor legislation, nor business co-operation, and I think this has been really good and it is necessary to keep it and to accept the amendment that this contribution continues to be paid, that there is a solidarity fund for these categories of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4380	Nenad Bogdanovic has a word, the Committee's rapporteur, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4381	Since it has been repeated many times, not only with this amendment, but also in these discussions in principle, let's get this straight. So, the allocation of funds for the apartments of solidarity has not been expelled, it's even fully specified, the amendment has now been regulated and that amendment will be adopted, which is that it will be detached from an extended base. You know that 1.3% of the apartments were previously granted for solidarity, and 3% for the other municipal things needed for local self-government. Now that figure will be in percentages smaller, but on a wider base and it will be about the same level, only that local self-government will be allowed to decide between 0.3 and 1%, as mandatory. So it won't be left to them for a free assessment but it'll be mandatory, but it's natural that it depends on the need, the conditions, and, ultimately, we've given through decentralisation the right to even some local self-government to single out more than before. So, even more than before, and some can single out less if there's no such need. That amendment will be precisely defined. We all agreed on that on the Finance Committee. All these other amendments that now bid around these percentages are now too high, or should give up on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4382	Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4383	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in order to fully clarify the matter, we need to know this: the government of the Republic of Serbia did not propose that local self-government must necessarily single out into the apartment solidarity fund. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia said in its basic proposal that there is no Solidarity Fund, except for the good will of local self-government, because it abolished the Solidarity Fund, it allowed through funds that collects local self-government that it can out of those 3.5% on gross personal incomes to decide how much it will single out itself. It was only at the pressure of us MPs that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as usual, improved what was wrong and said that it could be set aside from 0.3 to 1% in the Solidarity Fund. Let me just tell you that the Kikinda municipality has spent 3.5% on personal incomes, and it's singled out grossly so far for the Solidarity Fund for housing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4384	It is good that opposition representatives of parliamentary groups praise the government as democratic, who accepts this. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 107, there were no abstentions, there were no 28 votes, out of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 105, there were no abstentions, there was no 37 vote, out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 1. The draft law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic, who proposes to amend Article 44. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 107, there were no abstentions, no 38, a total of 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank the Committee on Urbanism and Construction who accepted this amendment. This came after meetings with Minister Schumartz and a new meeting of the Finance Committee, where we agreed on practical views. I agreed to withdraw my amendment. On that point, I would still say that this amendment is actually about Article 4. Tax law on the fund. It is that the MPs of the Serbian Unity Party who proposed this are absolutely not vain and we do not care whether our amendment, the amendment of the Committee, or the amendment of the Government will be adopted at all. It was only important for us to survive the Solidarity Building Fund, because we have received many letters from individual unions who have prayed and our parliamentary group, and I assume that other parliamentary groups have received it, that this fund survives as the only hope for many of our workers who will only manage through that fund to resolve their own housing issue. All I'm quoting is a memo from the textiles, leather and footwear trade unions, where they compete this year for 5,453 m2, which is about 100 apartments per 55 m2. So these people would lose all hope if this amendment were rejected. But I'm saying, it doesn't matter at all what it's actually going to be, in fact, the amendment of the Finance Committee. It is important that this amendment is adopted and that this Solidarity Fund will survive, as municipalities will be obliged to raise from 0.3% to 1% on a scale, or tax rate, from the housing fund, for the Solidarity Fund. So I thank again all those who have understood this amendment. Thank you for your understanding and your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4387	Did I understand you correctly? You pulled the amendment? Yeah. I find that the amendment has been withdrawn. Since, in the same text, the amendment to Article 1 has also been submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, we must make this clear. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 27, two abstentions were held against 119, not 30, out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic, who proposes that Article 3 be added. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 25, against 125, there were no abstentions, there were no 28 votes, out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. I'm putting the motion to vote on the law amending the House Act, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 134 against 40, the abstentions were not voted by five, out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill amending the House Act. He has the word National MP Dragan Pavlovic (by the Rules of Procedure)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4388	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 79. Rules of Procedure, I suggest we extend our work today after a certain period of time, and for all those points of the agenda that have passed by the committees, for which we have conditions, to work tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4389	He has the word MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4390	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I was convinced that night, when Madam Vice President allowed it to be defined as an official session of the Serbian Parliament, when only 115 of you were in the O.R., I was convinced that you were doing this to make the people really lose the will to watch TV at all and to ignore the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as such. What's happening right now, which my predecessor, the DOS MP, suggested, shows you're really going that way. People's MPs in the Republic Parliament have proposed that 250, in their interest, consider closely what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing, do our best to fix these proposals, to show the citizens of Serbia what is good, what is not good, and that the proposals adopted as such really have the verification of the majority in the Assembly. What has now been done, I think it leads to something that goes directly towards the chaotic state in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and you, Mr. Chairman, on this, as the most responsible among us, should also take care of how. The following is clear: the SRS MPs had motive to leave the meeting. I do not want to enter their motives, but they have left the meeting, and anyone who follows the Assembly's meeting is clear that the DOS majority, which also bothers one vote of opposition MPs, which suggests that the budget is much bigger than it should be, are proposed legal elements. Simply, you're going towards us working for no reason until midnight, until two in the morning, until three in the morning, using the fact that the MPs of the SRS, who are zealously following the proposed documents, submit amendments, explain the amendments, are not here. I think the citizens of Serbia understand very well what you are doing with this proposal. I suggest that we stay here until 7:30, normally tomorrow at 10.00, and that we continue to work on something that is truly the result of our work, in which everyone who is against the solutions that are being made, believe that it is right, and not in this way, in a submerged way, to work until two in the morning, only by force, in order to vote something proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4391	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4392	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal has brought nothing into question the rights of MPs, simply, Mr. Ivkovic, you can continue the work, in the same way that it has been the case so far. We have lagged during the afternoon session very sharply and argued in all situations where there was a basis for such a kind of mutual dialogue. So don't be an SRS lawyer. Just because they're not in the O.R. right now can't be an excuse for us giving up our jobs. One day of the assembly session costs 11,000 marks, one day of the assembly session, in which the most time is spent on newspaper headlines, on baseless accusations, on disputes, on restraints, in a troubled atmosphere. We do well, I suggest you continue your work with us, to work as long as there is a quorum. We're open to every kind of debate and I don't see this endangering any parliamentary right. The citizens chose us, among other things, and to work, not to argue with each other, argue and familiarize with newspaper headlines. So we have a quorum. We'll work as long as the quorum exists. If someone estimates that the basic working conditions are compromised, I agree we're talking about it, but at this point there's no reason not to make up for what was missed during the previous week.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4393	He has the word MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4394	I would like to explain to both you and the citizens of Serbia what are the next points of the agenda - the 12th point is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, then, the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, up to the 25th point of the agenda. Do you think we are constantly discussing this? Is that serious? If I'm someone's lawyer, I'm a Serbian citizen's lawyer, who's clear that someone at three o'clock in the morning or five o'clock in the morning can't think straight, as he thinks in normal working hours, between 10.00 and 19:30? Are you going to discuss the Small and Medium Enterprises Act at four in the morning? What's the need? If it's a big separation, don't pay off tomorrow's living room, and let's talk normally when we're rested and fresh, not in 70 or 90 hours of work. Why is that? Well, radicals, if they were smart, they'd come back here and then what did you do?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4395	He has the word National MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at one point I agreed that our group continues to work, because I was consulted by Vice President Sabic, but when I looked at the Rules of Procedure better, point 79 is very clear - says: "The National Assembly meetings are held between 10.00 and 19:30, with an end of one hour and 30 minutes, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise for certain days. That decision shall, as a rule, be taken at the beginning of the working day. "We did not, unfortunately, make that decision at the beginning of the work day. I think we have a very responsible work to do on very serious bill proposals. These are: Law on Local Self-Government, Tax on the Fund, Labour Relations, Employment, Rights of the Unemployed, etc. But none of these laws are so urgent that we'd be discussing it today, now that we're really quite exhausted, after all day's work. Of course, I mean those who are here and who are working. I don't mean those who aren't here. I mean those who work. I suggest, given the seriousness of the law and the fact that these are not so many urgent laws, that we continue to work on the Rules of Procedure, because if we have passed the Rules of Procedure, if we adopt it, then we should really act on it and act on it, and that tomorrow, calm heads, we continue to work on these laws and continue to do what our Rules of Procedure requires. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4397	So, you abuse my good will and there's an open debate on the proposal. This proposal should not be discussed, but voted and decided. There's a word Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4398	I answered my word, only to explain what my colleague Pelevic had just said. All he said was true, but since there's a possibility that there might be some kind of different connotation, I was just quoting a provision he just read and I tried to explain to you that it allows an exception as a rule. So, this proposal that's been made, whether we adopt it, or not, that's another thing. I'm totally convinced that we can work now. The second question is whether or not we should be working until the morning if we should finish all 25 points. I didn't suggest anything to Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4399	There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4400	Gentlemen, since Mr Pavlovic and Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal was undefined, I would ask them to define the proposal. Article 79 is very precise. It defines time, but it defines our right to, when we propose, say time for how long the session will take, and not -- it will last, so until we're done. (Glass from the O.R.: How long is the quorum?) What does that mean? Well, you haven't had all day, gentlemen. I suggest that according to Article 79, since you haven't specified the time, that time be specified and that we work until the end of these laws, where a comprehensive debate is conducted and that we conclude the work on that basis. I think it's possible to finish it around 2:00 or 9:00. Another sentence I would say -- the part that awaits us in the second part of the debate is very important for the citizens of Serbia and for the economy of Serbia. (Glass from the O.R.: It's not a topic. This is a topic. Take these agenda points we need to talk about and what's on the agenda, so you'll see. A series of laws are passed that apply to the economy and we think that a good part of that legislation will close at least 20% to 30% of the Serbian economy within the next two to three months. They'll have nothing to pay for their contributions. This is the topic of these laws, and Serbian citizens need to know what will happen on the agenda and what will happen to them in the next two months, because they will not be able to pay astronomical obligations on net employee earnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4401	So, the MP said we'd be sitting at the bottom of point 11. We have two suggestions. The first proposal is to be done by the end of this session. All points are ready. The second proposal is to work until the 11th item of the agenda is completed. I'm putting the first motion to vote, to be done by the end of this session. For 98, against 62, with 5 abstentions, 17, 182 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal and that the session will be held continuously until its end. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4402	Gentlemen, you haven't given a chance for the other two proposals, perhaps those two proposals would get more than 90 votes. This is rape law. Let me vote on every proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4403	It's about the next one. Since two proposals were tabled at the same time, when the first proposal proposed and put to the vote was received, I found that the National Assembly had made a decision. Of course, what we can argue about now, and that's where I'll give you the right, is your right to propose your proposal now and I'll put it to the vote. If he is accepted, the previous one will be annulled.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4404	Also, under Article 79, I suggest we vote, work until 9:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4405	I'm putting a motion to vote so we can work today until 9:00. For 55, against 95, the three abstentions, did not vote 24, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal and that the previous decision remains in force. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Branislav Pomorijski, Miroljub Veljković, Branislav Blažić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Goran Cvetanović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Slobodan Janjic, Bozidar Vujic, Srboljub Živanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Petar Jojic, Stevo Dragašić, Dragan Colić, Stevan Gudurić and Miomir Ilic, as well as the government's opinion on individual amendments. National MP Petar Jojic informed the National Assembly that he is withdrawing the amendment to Article 9. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the principled review of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search and before moving to a decision on the bill, in principle, we need to make clear on the proposal of MP Dragan Jovanovic to hold a call for the vote on this bill. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 23, against 113, there were no abstentions, no 36 votes, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on local self-government, in principle. There were 119 votes against 39, with no abstentions, no 15 votes, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill, in particular. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Miroljub Veljkovic and Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. The 27, against 120, with no abstentions, did not vote 29, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branislav Pomoriški and Stevan Guduric. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. The government's holding back. Is anyone answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament (you're probably out of time, but you'll be sitting by morning, my friend, because that's what you want) I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Paragraph 2 states this: "when the payment of revenue from Article 1 of this Article results in a total amount of funds, if the general balance of public income and public expenditure is not otherwise arranged, the transfer of funds shall cease at the expense of the municipality resulting from the sales, products and services tax, with the exception of the funds referred to in Article 50(3) of Article 176(2) and Article 185(2) of this Act. "In the pre-election campaign, we listened to decentralisation, up to our heads. Each of your stories was decentralisation, decentralisation, decentralisation, decentralisation and, again, decentralisation. Ma'am, I'm in no hurry, I've got five minutes. If you're in a hurry, you shouldn't have voted before. So, if it's decentralisation, I was expecting the Beocin municipality to get into decentralisation more of its money, so it turns out that... (President: Speak a little louder. They keep quiet, I have the right to talk, and they have no right to talk. I've got time, five minutes. Since it is not disputed my right to speak for five minutes, and also, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is your right to remain silent while I speak, I will use five minutes, we are in no hurry anywhere. So it turns out that centralization when the municipality gets 3.9, and decentralisation when it gets 2.5. I don't understand it, I've never been bad at math, but with 3.9 you get more of your resources, so it only turns out to be 2.5, and then more of the Taraba, so when you do, then you can't get any more of your money, and it's called decentralization of money. Even Canak wouldn't accept that. Therefore, it is very difficult to drink the water of your story. After all, a colleague from Novi Sad and then, when this was realized by another law, when you took the opportunity to arrest by your laws, try to arrest that evening of President Milosevic and make the situation for SPS MPs to step out of this assembly payphone and end by force and coercion method that night until half past two, you have now taken advantage of the opportunity to arrest the jeep with radicals (all subject) to get them out of the assembly, so that again, you've only been a little fooled. This time it'll take a long time. I promise I'll use 10 minutes each point, I'll use my right, and I believe there are a lot of those. So, we'll take a while to see who's going to pass out sooner. You haven't exactly shown yourself to be some tough guy in your decentralisation of money, where you practically take from the middle more than the Government of Mirko Marjanovic took, and you declare it a decentralisation of money, and that those who create with them better have it. That's where you'll have to explain how it works better. The minister can laugh all he wants, but 3.9 has always been more than 2.5. This story of decentralisation hardly drinks water, and then this total and what is said here and what was in that previous law is very difficult to drink water. What's also not controversial is that every time and when something was shrinking, you didn't either side when the budget, when the revenues weren't cutting the expenditures, you didn't move anything because you were on the pressure of the New Sad, in Novi Sad, raising that percentage and I'm absolutely in agreement that you didn't even raise them. Nothing else has changed. You find that strange. No matter what you change, nothing really moves. The revenues and expenditures are equal to...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4407	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4408	Everything stays the same in the end. It's like some weird math, and I just used 11 seconds longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4409	Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is certain that a certain decentralisation needs to be carried out and that the difficult times before the Government of the Republic of Serbia have motivated certain centralisation. It is clear that the centralisation on some side was also irrational, but it was necessary, given the events that were in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Many of us in the Government of the Republic of Serbia knew very well that it was much easier and better to manage from the seat of our own in local self-government, to see where it was necessary to build appropriate infrastructure, water lines, collectors, rain and fecal sewers, rather than centralise all this at the level of the Republic administration and to determine it in the Republic. But you must know that part of the local self-government due to separatism and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija did not function properly. On the other hand, you must know that there are some among you who have called for civil disobedience and for not paying funds for the needs of municipal development and municipal infrastructure. As a result, it was a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose an exemption for a municipal contribution of up to 5% and the Solidarity Apartments Act and the Solidarity Fund, which went up to 1.3%, be careful, and then gross earnings. I would like to remind myself that many local self-government housing funds have strengthened and I know the cases, as well as Vrsac, where they went up to 3.5% on gross earnings and where extraordinary results have been achieved. Therefore, the move and the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this situation to do the same thing under a decentralisation company that was before, and I do not find that reason and motive lying. What is allowed to go from 3.5% to the total profit fund, which is less than 6.3% on gross earnings. So basically what's going on. There is a mention of decentralisation, of strengthening local self-government, and on the other hand you have instead 6.3%-5% plus 1.3% is 6.3% on gross earnings, as it has been so far. It's proposed at 3.5 for the profit fund. What's the difference between gross and profit fund? Gross earnings are old, and the profit fund now includes the accident, which will breed workers in Serbia, which is that a warm meal must be taxed, that the stamp must be taxed, that the field supplement must be taxed and the regression must be taxed. All that money's less gross. Therefore, under the decentralisation company, this happens: 3.5% of the profit fund is less than 6.3% of gross earnings. Therefore, decentralisation runs out of money. Strong and socialists have always advocated strengthening local self-government, as strengthening local self-government, strengthening macro-region from the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, this strengthens Serbia. Strengthening the province, turning into a republic, destroying Serbia. For the record, decentralisation carries less money in the development of municipal infrastructure and less money in the solidarity fund for housing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4411	Here you are, the Committee's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4412	I promise I won't do this again, but I really do, and here's why I have to: I understand when some people who have no idea what math is, who don't know anything, say things like this, but when they're talking about Professor of the University and that at the Technical University, it just amazes me. I don't know what you teach your students back there at that university, which you schools have finished when you can talk about something that has nothing to do with the truth. 3.5% of this gross accounting is more than 4.3%. First of all, don't throw it away, I listened very carefully, and all you said was a lie. All you said was a lie. So the bottom line is, gentlemen -- ask all the gentlemen who work in local self-government, you who take care of them, what is the result of what we have brought, what is the result of the successful collection of excise duties, what is the result of everything they receive in the budget on various grounds? This will now be a fantastic result for local self-government. Compromically from local self-government, it's good, but I hope it doesn't continue to be that way, related to this from 0.3 to 0.1%, and I claim that at the end of the year, both for apartments and for the solidarity fund in all local self-government will be more money. It's amazing, I really can't understand you, where does it come from that you speak in such a way and deceive the citizens of Serbia all the time? I think you should stop that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4413	Replica. Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4414	Mr Bogdanovic illuminated his father's face and his mother's face and the home education he acquired. I won't even comment on it. I would like to reiterate, according to current regulations, the Government of the Republic of Serbia had not 3%, but 5% of the municipal contribution to approve, for example four years in a row was the practice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when the City of Belgrade is at stake. So four years in a row in 1964, 1965, 1966 and 1967. The town of Belgrade (From Hall: I guess 1994) Had a 5% communal contribution. That when you add 1.3% to the grant fund means it's 6.3%. So far, local self-government in the poor old, regimeal, SPS system has been entitled to 6.3% and could do much good in the development of municipal infrastructure, in the development of rainy and fecal collectors, plumbing, paved roads. Now, according to yours, I can make 3.5% on the profit fund, and I claim that I teach the items that I teach, and since I've finished more schools than you, and that fat, Mr. Bogdanovic, that 3.5% of the profit fund as you call it, and there's gross personal income plus a shameful warm meal taxed, shameful regress taxed, plus a disgraceful stamp taxed for these workers in the economy, plus a field supplement is taxed, and that's less than 6.3% on earlier gross earnings. And say hello to your father and mother.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4415	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 89, one abstention, was not voted 42, a total of 155 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. I ask the representative of the Government and the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to plead on this amendment. They don't want to. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4416	Dear Presidency, I'd like to ask before I take the floor to establish a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4417	You've received the word as an amendment bearer, so we're going to find the quorum, which is, by the Rules of Procedure, you didn't get a word in the Rules of Procedure. You got the word, you stopped for the pay phone, and you got the word as an amendment. When you've done that, you can report to the Rules of Procedure. And that is in accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure. Here you go, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4418	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, by proposing that Article 6 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4419	I implore the Members of the People to hear the subject of the amendment, Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4420	Article 6 The bill is crucial, and the proposal that I have made, to delete it, is essentially essential, because it erases these solutions that have been proposed, and I believe that the solutions provided for by the existing law have been correct. Those solutions that provided that in the municipal contribution we can build municipal infrastructure and that we have that percentage for solid housing building are better solutions than here. Although the amendment suggested that 3.5% of gross earnings of 0.3% to 1% be allocated to solid housing building, which is one of the solutions that our citizens would certainly accept, especially low-income workers. However, I must tell you that out of 3.5% of gross earnings remains the remaining remaining remains which is insufficient for the municipal infrastructure to be built, especially those objects that have started and those objects that are common. Not to mention that local self-government should be given greater rights and that local self-government should and must think about its communal infrastructure, I think, and I have brought that up in my thoughts on the proposals of these legal solutions, that there should still be one more real basis or some real period when all this came down. I don't know how regional water systems will be built, which are of interest to more municipalities in a series of waste water treatment systems, from that percentage that is isolated. I believe that the solutions that were given were better, and for this reason I have suggested that this article be deleted, but in order to deny you the right, the DOS majority, that is, the majority of whom have been given the right, given the proposal that you have made, and on the proposal of the points that are going, and above all, to the issue of the Law on Amendments and the additions of the Law on Social, Health and Labour Relations, since you have violated all this, one basic and human law that we, as MPs and citizens, need to think about how we are going to say to our objections, to the proposals concretely, to make clear that we will remain until the morning and to our citizens and voters, I will deny you the right to declare this amendment by withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-18-0.u4421	I find that MP Miomir Ilic has withdrawn the amendment. So we won't put this amendment to the vote. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposals for amendments to Article 63 The law. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Amendment applicants aren't here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For two, against 112, a abstentioned one, was not voted 9 out of 124 MPs. I realize we don't have a quorum and, therefore, I'm setting a 30-minute break. [[Resume session at 8:15 p.m.]] I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I ask the Service to count the members of the Members of Parliament present. Since the count found that 119 MPs are present in the hall, I am terminating the session of the Assembly, and I am announcing that the extension is tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Bon appétit.
