ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6280	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 134 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the absence was reported by the following MPs: Ljubisa Djoković, Bogoljub Zečević, Željko Tomić, Ratimir Svirčević, Mujo Muković, Mihajlo Marković, Istvan Išpanovic, Juhas Attil, Vojislav Doshen, Dragan Šutanovic, Veselin Janković, Karolj Kermeci, Kasa Jožef, Miroslav Martić, Milos Radivojčević, Branko Beševic, Milka Marinković, Zeljo Hurić, Branislav Grubački, Petar Misić, Branislav Pomorički, Ljubomir Slavković. Just in the morning of the absence - Neda Arnerić and Gordana Komić, and in the afternoon Boško Ničić and Stanko Kovacevic. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I remind you that, at the session of 11 May, after the adoption of the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic, we are on Article 5. The draft law on salaries in state bodies and public services and the apparitions by several MPs found that, because of the disagreement of such an amendment to the text of the bill, it was necessary to suspend the adoption of the draft law in general and to ask the Legislative Committee to resolve these issues in cooperation with the legislator, in accordance with Article 135. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On this occasion, the Legislative Committee held its session, which concluded that it was necessary to carry out further consultations with the legislator, which was not possible to carry out within a short period of time, so it was proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 135. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, stop working on this item of the agenda until the necessary alignment is carried out. Since there was no quorum in the follow-up to the National Assembly session, we were unable to declare this proposal, I am now putting to the vote the draft Legislative Committee to stop working on the 16th item of the agenda - the draft law on salaries in state bodies and public services, until the necessary alignment of the text of the Bill with the amendments adopted, while the National Assembly continues to work on the 17th item of the agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare themselves by voting on this proposal for a Legislative Committee. For 142, no one, abstentioned one, voted 9, a total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the Legislative Committee to stop with the 16th item of the agenda and to move to the 17th point of the agenda. Here's a word from MP Srda Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6281	It's about Article 88(1). Rules of Procedure, it's not about the injury. It's about my right to suggest. So, since there aren't many amendments to this agenda point, I suggest that, in accordance with Article 88(1). Rules of Procedure, we decide that the debate on this item of the agenda is shortened and that it is 5 instead of 10 minutes. It's something to suggest before the search begins, and I think it's a good time to make this clear. So they would speed up the work of the Assembly a little bit and bring this part of the agenda to an end. I ask the People's Assembly to declare this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6282	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that there are no large number of amendments, because in time, by law, by regulation, the sublaws of the Serbian Government de facto have been abolished. Now a legal solution, which would be said to be put into legal traffic as would be necessary. I'd just like to point out one bad manners. It's hardly anyone would discuss for more than five minutes under this law and hardly anyone would speak more, especially since there aren't many amendments. What I'd like to say is, I don't know why it would be necessary to limit time to the MPs, to take unpopular measures, to be able to speak as much or as much. Let's just say, I didn't plan on talking that long, because I don't know what I could talk about under a law like this for more than five minutes. This just seems like an introduction to some new measures, which are planning to take the parliamentary majority, which the media are announcing, therefore, the first reduction of discussions, and then the abolition of transmissions, etc. Simply for principled political reasons, it is understood as always and when it was in opposition and when it was in power, the SRS will not accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6284	I am putting on the vote by MP Srdja Popovic to limit the discussion to 5 minutes per agenda item 17. For 106, against 42, abstentioned 5, no vote was made by 8, a total of 161 MPs. I find that a proposal by MP Srdja Popovic has been adopted that the discussion at this point in the agenda is limited to 5 minutes. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the law on the means of solidarity for employees who have temporarily lost their jobs following wartime acts have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, which have adopted the draft law in principle and in particular. I'm opening a principled search. Does the word want a proposaler's representative? Yeah. Here you go. The word has the Minister of Labour and Employment, Mr Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6285	Dear People's MPs, just a few sentences about this law. You know that this law practically ceased to apply to the government's regulation on 17 November 2000. All it takes is now for the Assembly to decide on a formal suspension of the law. I will only provide you with a few data related to the funds collected from the solidarity log and the way it was spent. In the period from 25 April 1999 to 2 February 2001, funds totalling 6,373,175,163, 81 dinar were raised. In the same period, expenditure totalling 6,371.002.809,81 dinars were made on the following grounds: for the payment of 24 earnings, i.e. for the severance of people who had lost their jobs of 704.730.047 dinars; for workers who had been taken over from companies that had been destroyed in NATO bombings, 4.181.920.627,92 dinars; guaranteed earnings, with associated contributions for compulsory social insurance, paid 211.371.726 dinars and, on this basis, paid in three months' guaranteed earnings for 163,000 employees in the Republic; paid out, on the basis of guaranteed earnings with the previous contributions, for workers from Kosovo and Metohija, in the total amount of EUR 65,400,000 for 41,000 of workers; paid out of the pensions paid out of 111.5. From these funds, a total of 819,341,583 dinars were paid on behalf of the loan: the Republic Directorate for the Reconstruction of the Land - 365,422,144 dinars; the budget of the Republic of Serbia - 216,119,060 dinars; the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees - 117,398,774 dinars and other loans are approximately 120,401.604. This law provides for loans and funds that are not paid, which must be paid, to be spent on financing and hiring the unemployed. It is the only part of this law that seems to me to be fulfilling what makes workers in Serbia, pensioners, single out these solidarity logs. I don't think there are any big discussions in this law, and I suggest that the Assembly adopt this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6286	I thank the minister. Is there any word from the committees in charge? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's MP, Mr. Alexander Vukic, as representative of the parliamentary group [[Dropping out of the O.R.: Time.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6287	Ladies and gentlemen, because of the public, I didn't even make it to the pay phone, and some DOS deputies were already yelling - time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I quote the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who just spoke. His first line was, I didn't write it down, I didn't get it, but what I wrote was very interesting and confirms what I was talking about earlier. The minister said, "The law has ceased to apply the government of the Republic of Serbia regulation," and he cited a certain date behind that, I don't know which one. How can this, Mr. Minister, by a lower legal act, in the hierarchy of legal acts, be abolished by a higher legal act? Where is it, in what country in the world? In which country in the world can a legal act be abolished? The Serbian Radical Party has been pushing ahead of time before the DOS came to power to lift its commitments from the so-called. the solidarity logs. It would be, I would say, demagogue and it would be incorrect to say now that we are against a legal solution. We have been against an irregular solution to such a problem, but we essentially think that this kind of commitment for Serbian citizens should be lifted. What exists as a problem and what we will face in any case is the fact that the problems of those people who have lost their jobs after the actions of NATO aggression have not been solved. I was recently in Chačka, and there I heard about those factories that were hit, especially "Cer", that there was still nothing doing or almost nothing. "Freedom" has returned, it has worked successfully before, and it seems to us that even now it will be able to operate on the market, whether or not it could have been, we will only see it, depending on its ability to run. For example, there are no solutions for Cer and many other factories, nor for those workers. It was good that this legislative project was followed by a particular project from labour-social legislation, which the government minister could propose here, to see how their problems will be dealt with in a concrete way. What is stated in the context of the government law of the Republic of Serbia, where the funds found in the ministry's account and the funds to be made available on behalf of the repayment of loans and the funds remaining for the realisation of the adopted economic-social programmes will be used to resolve surplus employees. It's just a question that comes to us about what we've already talked about. So other than these cases, where we already have a number of people who are out of a job, how many more people are going to lose their jobs, how are they going to make a quality social programme that these problems are going to solve, are they even going to be, will the state know that, will they be able to solve it at all? So these are much more serious problems that we should face. This is a technical law which, I would say, valorizes the defacto state, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia, however, contrary to legal norms, has done with its decision, I mean back in the time of so-called Transient governments. Anyway, I think it's a good idea for this area to be regulated by law. For this reason, the SRS parliamentary group cannot in any case be against this, because we believe that this is the way the citizens of a commitment to which the obligation has ceased at this time. This obligation has to go to the state and it is the state that has to do much more to make real programs than it has done so far, to do everything to see how it will protect this social sphere of our social life, in which way it will protect those most vulnerable, if you will, especially those who have lost their jobs two years ago, during NATO aggression and who since then, other than what has been guaranteed or minimal earnings, as you call it, have nothing else. The question is whether they can provide themselves and their family with the existence. That is why we expect the government of the Republic of Serbia to take more important steps on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6288	Is there anyone else coming forward from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word has a folk MP, Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6289	The respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, respected members of the government, will vote in favour of the draft law on the termination of the Solidarity Act for employees who have temporarily lost their jobs due to wartime acts. The SPS will vote in favour of the proposal for this law for the reason that during its application, this law has shown justification and all that is positive and set as a goal in its adoption. It should be recalled that this law was adopted as one government intention, compared to what was happening in our country during NATO aggression, to solve accumulated economic - social problems. In 11 weeks, the duration of NATO's agarresion on our country and during the barbaric, systematic bombing of our country's entire territory has been destroyed by many things that represented economic potential and were of paramount importance to the citizens of this country. Several tens of thousands of buildings, houses, buildings, were destroyed, a large number of businesses were damaged, partially or completely, over 144 large enterprises, large factories were destroyed, several thermopower plants were affected, electricity supply systems, buses and railway stations, preschools, schools and so on. So, a lot of things were damaged that mattered to the lives of the citizens. Responding to such a situation, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted an economic-social programme on May 5th 1999 to restore the war on damaged enterprises. This program is to remind, it had short-term and long-term measures. Short-term security-oriented, which had a social character and focused on providing guaranteed employee earnings and these long-term measures, which were in fact targeted at funding the programme, of course, under favourable conditions, programmes that would ensure permanent employment of workers who had lost their jobs. These measures included the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises, the return of workers to agricultural holdings, new programmes under renewed enterprises, the takeover of workers by other enterprises, the payment of 24 average monthly net earnings, and the termination of employment relations. I'm talking about this because all these programs, they're krill and durogorical, funded by the means of solidarity that have been collected under these laws. Of course, within the framework of the implementation of this programme, the government has adopted an operational programme of measures where all elements of importance for the implementation of this programme have been taxed. In the realisation of this economic and social programme, the government educated one group, several ministries were engaged, alongside the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Republic Institute for the Labour, the Republic Development Fund, the National Bank and other business banks were involved. I mention this because the purpose of the funds was clearly determined as well as how it was spent. That the law has shown its justification, also confirms the reasoning of this law, i.e. the structure of the expenditure given in the light of the termination of this law. Just to remind you, just by structure, from 6 billion and 373 million dinars, how much money was collected by this law, 6 billion 371 million were subdued, so over 99%. Of these, expenditures were spent in the following way - over 11% of the assets were spent for 24 average earnings, for agricultural loans, for the takeover of employees from broken-down enterprises, for the recovery of broken-down enterprises, for the return of employees to jobs and for short-term loans over 65% of the assets, for guaranteed profits and contributions for social insurance over 3%. Some of the money was spent for the purchase of supplies for workers from broken-down businesses, some of the money was borrowed to state institutions of 13% of these total assets, and this -- the Country Reconstruction Directorate, the Republic of Serbia's budget, the PIO Fund, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Stock Reserve Directorate and other state institutions and, of course, on the basis of social humanitarian activity, over 5% of the funds were paid. I'm talking about all of this for a reason...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6290	Mr. Obradovic, just to remind you that we have restricted the discussion for five minutes, you have the right to make a second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6291	Thank you. I was just about to finish. This is what I mentioned, the structure of expenditure for the simple reason it shows that the law justified the reasons why it was adopted and the SPS would vote for the adoption of this bill which ceases to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6292	The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6293	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to be brief, it seems to me that this law is good first of all that the state takes back on itself the obligation of social care to all those who show the need for such a thing. So, from the citizens of Serbia, we take off a kind of obligation that they have been hard to bear in themselves, which they have publicly criticised, among other things, because of such criticism is the first regulation, the truth in a completely justified way, was criticised by Mr. Vukic for not having the relative opportunity to pass this law - his application hitched, and then by this law we put an end to, I believe in one part of our history, which in itself we do not want to repeat. I think we have enough examples, and based on these examples, we'll know how to behave in situations where we can reach out to them. As far as this law is concerned, I think we will be able to talk more specifically about it when we talk about the 21st point of the agenda, that is, when the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget is in front of lawmakers. I think, at the same time, that everything that preceded this proposal and the regulation from the end of last year, and I mean very clear, concrete and strong requirements that came from the economy to withdraw this law and to give up on its application, that one such attitude of society is certainly a sufficient reminder to all of us today who create a policy in society and who are thinking about the level of burden on anyone who is doing something in this country today. Citizens were not prepared, at least not by those who work, to bear the sole burden of this whole part of our society that depends on them, and that is why today, when we criticise government proposals, when we criticise the restrictive policy that the government has on reducing its obligations to employees, we must first and foremost think about the possibility of society carrying out this burden. So this law is encouraged by the inability of our society to meet the needs that exist to an absolute extent. It's good because the state assumes on itself this obligation and because it says that the government will implement all those projects that have been financed from the funds that were received by this law, that this will be done by means obtained by other principles, above all I mean taxes and that I mean the funds that have been defined by the budget, as funds for retraining the workforce that will arrive through donors, either through other programmes that we talked about earlier and that we account for in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6294	Is there anyone else applying for a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) The first to be registered for discussion is MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6295	Dear Madam Vice President, dear fellow MPs, we have yet another draft of the law before us, in fact, one law that was abolished by the time the new set came into power, with some sublegal act. Someone was in a hurry to get that solidarity bill off the agenda as soon as possible, to take it off the table. Gentlemen, it's about the victims of the war, a part of the Serb people who left hostile aggression without employment and with no roof over their heads. What kind of society are we, what kind of state are we, to leave one part of our people who has been killed by a war fact on the streets? Can Serbia allow that? No, gentlemen. This is a national disgrace. Why didn't the government gentlemen commit themselves to taking on these duties they allegedly want to take off the burden of the citizens. It should be taken off the burden of citizens, it wasn't popular, the citizens accepted it as one national duty. Now, here are some promises that look like pure demagogue. The government will take care there through some donor projects, which are nowhere to help those who have suffered from war aggression. It's cheap demagogy, and on the other hand it's said that the sooner you put an end to this, that it never happens again, as if it were our fault, as if the victims were guilty of being attacked and left without the means to live. On the other hand, these victims need to be provided from the means of war damage. Where's the war damage? This government not only does not seek it, but it does not speak of it, because it is unpopular of the aggressor who came behind them, who financed their coming to power. What's the material damage? Only material war damage is $32 billion, written down, and that's the lower limit, because it wasn't possible for Cosmet to list all the objects that were destroyed. What's the immaterial war damage? A U.S. institute has calculated that damage to $140 billion. I believe they had in mind all the consequences of this aggression, as well as the use of illicit weapons, atomic waste and ammunition with nuclear charge. How much will be caused by the disease, how much stress has been suffered in our citizens and children because of this aggression? That's not what you're talking about. This is where opposition groups come in -- we will vote in favour of the law, which has already been abolished. I'm telling you it's a national disgrace. Vote, all of you. I won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6296	I give my word to Parliamentarian Radic Jokovic, and the next one registered for discussion is MP Mr Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6297	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, the more esteemed members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I come from the Municipality of Luciana, more specifically from Luciana, who during NATO aggression were terribly damaged, and for these reasons I couldn't skip and not report for discussion. I have to say that Milan Blagojevic was killed, like the chemical industry, which has two companies in its composition, and this company is dedicated production and chemical enterprise. Unfortunately, in addition to dedicated production, we also suffered the most vital plants in the company Chemical, such as the production of carboxymethyl cellulose, which was both of the export character and the production of PVC tubes with arms. Not to mention the damages that have been done to the company for the purpose of production, where 29 objects have been leveled to the ground, and over 40 objects have been damaged by over 50%, so the practically business activity of these companies has been reduced to zero. Economic and social measures and the government programme of the Republic of Serbia have intervened, however, on a long-term basis, what has already been said has not been completed. I am reporting for these reasons and I am asking in some way that the Government assumes obligations, which are in some way approved by the previous Government, takes and executes as soon as possible, because these days, thanks to great enthusiasm, both the contractors and workers themselves in the Company The dedicated production, the basic plant for the production of nitro cellulose has been restored, revitalised and with reduced capacity adapted to new needs, has been released these days into operation. However, it is only one of, so to speak, the technology to be raised at a location in Luciani, for the purpose of production in Luciani is one important link in the production of dedicated products for the needs of the Yugoslav Army and that other finalisers within the military sector cannot work without this production or will be oriented to imports. So, from that huge damage, only part of the damage is replaced by the economy. As for social facilities, social standards, we have somehow succeeded with the help of donors, and above all I would like to commend the Swiss humanitarian organisation of the SDR, with whose help we have managed to repair the damages that have been done...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6298	Mr. Jokovic, if you could just get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6299	I'll be right there. children's kindergartens, schools, and home to health. We also suffered huge damage at private facilities. The country's rebuilding directorate took the obligation to build eight destroyed houses and was due on December 5th 99th. To this day, only three houses have been completed, and the other five are not finished. They are in one degree almost done, but not enough for people to move into those houses. Also, the country's Reconstruction Directorate has taken the obligation to resuscitate 18 significantly damaged houses, however, the job has not yet been done. That's why I urge the government to carry out your commitments in the next period. Also, there's a question of war damage. We must in some way know and determine exactly what war damage is. I've been under the impression that it's been quiet lately. I think it's in our interest to determine what war damage is, because it's huge to me. The estimates are different. Direct material damage is mentioned at $35 - 36 billion, and it goes as much as $150 billion. We have to tell the world what this damage is, and I think that according to the applicable law, the commissions were formed by municipalities, the deadlines had passed, it had to show that damage, and nobody asked for it, and I don't think that job was done. He should know the world about the damage the NATO aggressor has done to this country and someone would still have to make it up to him. For these reasons, I propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, under the urgently approved means, which have been approved by earlier economic and social programmes, introduce damaged firms, so that they can carry out their obligations and return to work people, workers who have lost their jobs, take over the obligation of the directorate, because I do not know whether the directorate exists at all, whether it works, means taking over the obligation of the Directorate to start work, to complete them, and to finally establish the exact amount of war damage done by NATO aggressors to our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6300	The word has a folk MP, Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, and the next reported for the discussion is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6301	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the President of the Republic, during the wartime state, brought this regulation, which he wanted to regulate for those employees who temporarily lost their jobs due to the facts of war, and here is the tax-listed number that these enterprises were most damaged, then which the funds were collected, the minister brought to us, but did not know the figures nicely to read and remained unrealised in the account of the solidarity log on the day of February 2nd, 345 dinars. Then, there are some claims, some loans that need to be paid back. What I wanted most to point out here is a problem that no one mentions, and that is exactly the problem of the economy of Kosovo and Metohija, because we are witnessing that all those who are set up are getting paid, which are on the budget or receiving salaries from budget funds are as much taken care of, whether they are working or not at the moment, are still receiving certain funds that are necessary for survival, i.e. for naked existence. On the other hand, we have a large number and a much larger number employed in the business of Kosovo and Metohija, and you know that there are no conditions currently in place for work, and these workers are not concerned, so I wanted to point out that the funding provided by this programme is precisely for those who are the most vulnerable, and I think that, at present, these workers and those families who have achieved their incomes in the economy of Kosovo and Metohija, so I would suggest to the competent ministry that all that remains of these solidarity diaries, which will be collected in the name of the refund or in the name of interest and the daily, be partly placed precisely for the needs of these employees in the economy of Kosovo and Metohija. Because it would be both inhumane and insolvent that these funds, as foreseen by the law, are used to address surplus employees, future surpluses, which means those surpluses that will occur after the adoption of the Privatisation Act. This surplus of employees who will come after the adoption of this law, I propose that some other social programmes be resolved, and that the funds that are intended for, as the name itself says, the means of solidarity for the most vulnerable, for employees who cannot perform their duties, to place those funds to workers who have been employed in the economy of Kosovo and Metohija, who are currently unable to enforce and to exercise their rights. One of the MPs here stated that this law should also put an end to some history that cannot be repeated. I don't see what kind of point that is. This history is not to repeat itself, but remains current, it is trendy, and we must not forget the problems that Serbs have in Kosovo and Metohija, we must not forget the problems that Serbs have in southern Serbia. Every day there is a massacre and destruction, which means that there is no point in history until the moment that Kosovo and Metohija occupiers are expelled. There's one more question here. What is a big problem, which many have lost very little living conditions, which is due to this aggression and everyday aggression, which is happening against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and Serbs in southern Serbia, what about the topic of war damage. It seems that for our government, war damage is a taboo issue, which can't even be mentioned. It would be the only real source of income, which would replace the suffering and suffering of all those who had lost both their jobs and their property. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6302	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see, in the very title of this law, it shows how much its meaning is, that is, a daily of solidarity. The funds achieved on behalf of the solidarity logs are aimed at paying the employees' cash compensation, providing credit for agricultural work, taking over employees from broken-down enterprises to return employees to work, paying guaranteed earnings, obtaining supplies for employees from war-torn enterprises, socio-humanitarian activities and loans. The first thing the DOS government has done has abolished the solidarity daily, as conditions have reportedly been created for a greater improvement, so the solidarity log could be abolished. Probably meant big donations from abroad. But they're not here. Everything that started to build and work in the function of these separations has been interrupted. This power has been tricking voters with pre-election promises, as the government declaredly and without the assembly session abolishes solidarity. The fee on TV over the numbers and the solidarity logs cancels out quickly, believing in six billion dollar donations, blocks all the projects envisaged by these funds to be realised. Perhaps the Government of National Unity, when conditions are met, would end this kind of funding in investment jobs and in these activities. The funds for humanitarian activities have been paid to create conditions for housing and care for refugees, exiled displaced persons. These funds have been paid to municipalities, the Commissioner for Refugees, the Red Cross, the Boring-Invalid Organisations and other socio-humanitarian organisations and institutions, and in particular humanitarian organisations in Kosovo and Metohija. For 300,000 displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, conditions should be provided for their lives in other parts of Serbia. It is also necessary to provide 70% of the monetary income from the republican average for all those who have worked in Kosovo-metohic enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that in my previous presentation, the solidarity log was the most intended for refugees and displaced persons. It is necessary for these exiled and displaced faces to provide some sort of accommodation and nutrition. It is difficult for everyone, the economy is not working, so Serbian citizens have become social cases. So to say, the entire population is on the verge of misery and poverty. The sanctions have shut down many businesses. Individuals in the previous government, as well as in this new one, had the right to import certain raw materials, spare parts, agricultural components for livestock, and they profited and created huge capital in the wind of sanctions and war. I don't understand how they could, and the state couldn't do those jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, for companies that have had the greatest war destruction, such as "Stava" Kragujevac, "Krusik" Valjevo, MIN Niš, "Milan Blagojevic-Medanska" Luciani, "14 October" Kruševac and others, the government has brought special economic and social programs to their recovery and employment of workers. The largest number of programmes has been implemented in these companies and has been assured that a large number of employees in these companies continue to work. This way, the DOS government acknowledged that the Government of National Unity, in order to implement an economic and social programme and recover war damage to the destroyed objects that NATO villains have destroyed, managed to revitalise the facilities and restore them to use. I would like to point out another unpleasant activity of this government by adopting a resolution on Kosovo. We all voted unanimously because we wanted to honor the Kumanov Declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6304	Please, it's not a subject, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6305	Please, just one more minute. But, as always, this government is full of secrets, as it has been full of secrets for the entire 10 years of work, secret spies for NATO villains. She was conducting a diversion in the economy, preparing paramilitary formations for the takeover and execution of a coup, as it happened on October 5th. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic himself said that. She's been preparing since February of the month and knows about customs checkpoints...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6306	Mr. Zivanovic, we've limited the discussion to five minutes, and that's not the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6307	Here's what I found out this morning from a man who's been working on customs since February, but the accessories he needs for his life and staying on the ground since February, he hasn't gotten them yet. Now they introduce vehicle registration plates similar to the Bosnian-Herzegovic plates, prepare the Shipari for their power, which is called democracy and patriotism, sales and betrayal of the country. The same scenario is with southern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6308	The word has a People's MP... Here you go. He has the word MP Alexander Vukic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it wouldn't be a bad idea for the citizens of Serbia to clarify a few things, so that someone doesn't get the wrong impression of passing this law and having a different belief. Namely, the Serbian Radical Party, which is its MP group in the National Assembly, has proposed that it go with the abolition of the law much earlier. First of all, that the state would have a greater obligation, and that the obligations of the citizens would be reduced. Especially because even so, although it was the only solution, we managed to cover only the minimal existential needs of those who were most threatened by the criminal aggression of the NATO Pact. However, what is objectively a problem today, but it can be discussed about competences, but since in our country everything on itself, all the ingenuity and prerogative authorities are taken over by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not by the federal government, then it is not burning to talk about it in this parliament. It's about how we could finance all the social needs of our citizens, which would be the best way, what would be the easiest thing for this country and its citizens, and nobody would give us charity, and yet not tell us how it does us significant services, how much it helps us, etc. Namely, the assessment of the war damage that NATO has done on the territory of the SRJ, which is mostly on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, was several blows to Montenegro's territory, so it is over a hundred billion dollars. So let's make it $50 billion, make it their estimate -- 50 billion dollars. With $50 billion, we as a country can recover all our economic capacities, still repair and lift what's been ruined by our municipal infrastructure, not count what we've done before, and what you haven't wanted to do since you've been in power, so, with all that, we could live at least 50 years, to live well. Now the question is -- why is someone, and they keep telling us about the social needs of solving our citizens' problems, why did someone withdraw the NATO war damage lawsuit for a year, before the International Court of Justice in The Hague? It's not the Hague tribunal, it's this second International Court of Justice in The Hague. Why did someone drop the NATO Pact lawsuit for a year? That's what Goran Svilanovic did. Why? Why didn't we ask for that money? We're going here to deliver every Serb, to get 50 or 60 million dollars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6310	Mr. Wolfie, please come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6311	I'm very specific about the subject, very precise, please listen to me very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6312	I don't think so, please come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6313	Listen to me carefully, so you'll understand, I'm very specific about the subject. We're even in one ad, in a new issue of Witnesses, you'll be able to see where we said Mike Tyson gets 50 or 60 million dollars for one match. We're going to get that $50 or $60 million, which we're not going to get again, but we're going to get a genetically modified soy shotgun to destroy the entire food industry in our country. For all of this, we'll have to deliver all of the Serbs. But where is this social security money needed in this law? He's lying in harm's way. We have to charge what's ours, not to get anything else, that's enough to live well, that's enough to have all the costs to cover the repairs, about revitalizing our economy and all our problems to solve. In whose interest is it to forget it, in whose interest is it that we are no longer interested in this war damage? Why isn't it said, why isn't it written, why aren't we looking for what's ours? We're not looking for what's other people's. We didn't bomb Washington, we didn't bomb London, we didn't destroy London, if you will, or Stone Henge, we didn't destroy the statue of freedom. They killed our children, they destroyed our bridges, they destroyed our cities, our housing facilities. We're just asking them to pay us back, we don't need their charity. Why doesn't the state have that kind of initiative? We don't need their donor conference, which they're going to have, the class won't have, whether they're going to give us a billion-dollar consolidation loan, so after that we have to pay back a billion and a hundred. Where to return, out of that billion and 900 million we will pay what we already owe them, so we enter into one circle of debt slavery, and nothing more than that. That is why we believe it is very important that the government of the Republic of Serbia determines on this issue. I'd also say, when someone was talking about these donations, about being there all the time, I realized for the first time that it was a global scam, and that was after the federal budget was adopted. As federal MPs, we received a proposal for a federal budget, in which we saw support for the federal budget outside, in donations, so budget support, only 15 million marks, planned, meaning 460 million dinars. That was around that time about 15 million marks, if you're referring to inflation, which has been 17.6% for this year, which is going to be even bigger. Then it'll be much less, which is almost nothing. What kind of external donations are they, that it's not like the ones they're talking about, that Milan Panic, without any dinar, takes the most important factories in Serbia, right? Without any dinar, he wants to take the most important factories in Serbia, most powerfully, everything that belongs to us, what belongs to us and the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6314	Mr. Wolf, didn't you say at the beginning of work that you won't speak for more than five minutes, and here, now it's seven minutes, and secondly, don't stick to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6315	I'm just finishing up, and I'm sticking to the subject, and it's no accident why Vuk Obradovic is being persecuted. But I just want to tell you this, so that's the key question. All programmes in the social sphere, many programs in the economic sphere, we can make them incomparably better and solve our problems by pointing out openly, without fear of anyone - is this our country afraid to say that we were wrongfully and criminally bombed and that we are only looking for what is ours? We don't want anything of theirs, just as much as it's worth what they've ruined for us and what they've destroyed for us. That's what we're looking for, we're gonna get out of the crisis. If we don't, here, in this country, there's not that much money, there's not so much chance, and if it's going to give us 50 or 60 million in genetically modified soy shotgun, it can only bring us worse, it can get us worse, and it can't get us any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6316	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6317	Ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the SRS, Aleksandar Vukic, has already explained and said that Serbian radicals will vote to stop the law. He explained that the law was suspended by an earlier illegal act, by the government of the Republic of Serbia, so that by passing this law things would be restored to their place. At the time the law was passed, it was difficult for those who worked, who had any job, to separate one diary for those workers who were out of work because of the war. But it was even harder for them, and it was the only way to help these people to survive at that time when there was no help at all. We do not believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can find alternative means and that it will help these people in this way. It might be best if citizens were able to continue to single out, however, it is obvious, especially since 5 October, that the standard of citizens is falling faster, the consumer basket is already 13,000 dinars, and the average salary of 4,200, the electricity has accumulated more than 100%, heating is gathering, here, since 1 June in Nis will be 120% more expensive central heating. Many new taxes have been introduced, and they are becoming harder and harder to live. It is obvious that citizens will not be able to help those in need with these funds. With great regret that these funds cannot be provided otherwise, and with respect for the fact that citizens are really no longer able to separate, those who work, no single dinar, the SRS will vote for this law. I have to say, today you're something very calm, you don't throw too much, probably the main loudspeakers aren't in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6318	I give my word to the MP, Stevan Keseiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this draft law on the termination of the Solidarity Act, as you have heard from the present representatives of the SRS, will be adopted, i.e. the vote and the SRS for this law, because we believe that the laws adopted, or regulations adopted, must be taken into account in the legal frameworks, and that is one of the reasons. The second reason is also because we believe that the solidarity logs introduced at the time of the war were necessary, so that those citizens, who were exposed to war aggression by NATO villains, would not be left without a basic existence and that the citizens, or the people of Serbia, would not accept paying for this contribution. Of course, there was even an indignity about it, because it was hard for them to survive. For these reasons, the SRS would like that responsibility to be taken over by the government. But what happened in the meantime? A huge number of citizens who were at that time pressured by these material expenditures have now realized in fact that these expenditures were not so difficult because they were given from the heart, unlike current expenditures, which are intended by DOS power. They find it more difficult to pay for drugs that have collected drastically, electricity and all other basic existential needs. So when we talk about a law that needs to stop, which will free citizens from the burdens, then, in any case, the MPs of the SRS will always stand up for it. But one very important question arises: once we have abolished this law, what will happen? That is, we do not see any good intentions or any programme that would replace these funds, and we know that there are still a large number of citizens who have been damaged by the actions of NATO aggression still without a job. We also know that large facilities and business entities are out of exploitation. So they are not yet able to return to the original state of production, which was before NATO aggression. The government therefore does not have programmes for this kind of citizen, who need to find employment and continue to work in those industrial facilities where they have worked so far, which are listed here and would not repeat them. Also, there are smaller places in damaged objects, so it happens there as well as in the flag, in Chačka in "Freedom" etc., that workers have nowhere to go back, precisely because the destructive bombs destroyed the factories where they've worked so far. Also here, this law, and by bringing out the president of the DOS parliamentary group to put an end to this problem, we believe that the government is thus amnesting the war crimes of NATO aggressor, because we cannot forgive everything that NATO's aggressor has done in Serbia and has done great material damage and human tragedies. We believe that the government in its programme should primarily rely on claims for war damage that are... (President: Mr. Kesaic, time and topic. )......................................................................................................... occupiers applied, and then they would put an end to everything that was going on. So solidarity logs can also be expected now that DOS authorities have taken Serbia into their own hands. We can expect the next government to issue solidarity logs for the damage the DOS government will cause.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6320	I give my word to the MP, Mr. Slobodan Pavlovic, and the next one has been declared for discussion by the MP, Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6321	Ms. Micic, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, allow me to get involved in the debate with several sentences about this law and to say first of all, and since there were questions why the opposition parties would vote for the adoption of this law, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group would vote as well as our head of the parliamentary club said for at least three reasons. First, the SPS took part in the transitional government of the Republic of Serbia, which assessed the justification for continuing to retain the solidarity log. Well, therefore, for these reasons we cannot say that we did not participate in this matter, and what our people would say, which is. Secondly, it's a de facto technical law, and now as one predecessor has said, that sanctions what we already have. Third, which, according to our assessment, and from what it says in the reasoning of the law, the law in fact justified the purpose and purpose of its introduction. This is best seen from the reasoning given on these three sides. To remind myself, what is otherwise written and what is known and seen, therefore, is that the funds are achieved on behalf of the solidarity logs for what was intended for, to pay the employees' cash compensation, to provide agricultural work, to take over employees in broken enterprises, to rehabilitate and revitalise the war of broken enterprises. All in order to return employees to jobs, above all, for the payment of guaranteed earnings, for the purchase of supplies for employees, for war-torn enterprises and socio-humanitarian activities. To repeat one piece of information that no one has particularly absorbed, according to the government of the Republic of Serbia's economic and social programme, 76,000 workers have been employed. It's an extremely important and big number. Not to mention these companies that were also given in the explanation, and where interventions were carried out in the flag group, and in Krusik Valjevo, both in Nis and Milan Blagojevic in Luciani, given that a colleague had just said so, etc. So that's why we're going to support this proposal, because, as I said, it justifies what it was for. What we need to say now and what I'm about to say, the Serbian government now has to take measures within its jurisdiction and powers and not to say, not to perhaps be malignancies by some, so that I can invoke what DOS is in pre-election campaigns and promise to the citizens of Serbia. And with regard to business activities, etc. The government of the Republic of Serbia must now, through regular programmes, take care and take adequate measures both in terms of resolving the issue of unemployment and in terms of resolving refugee issues, to care and to work on these programmes, to work on a programme to resuscitate objects that have not been completed so far, even though the resolution programme has practically been completed. As well as improving the economic situation through development programmes and programmes, it improves economic miles and improves economic activity and thus promotes employment, new employment, a new exit. He should propose a new social programme, and that's what I'm telling Minister Milovanovic, because there's already been words when something that had previously been such a purpose has to go with the follower, because it's a law, regulation, measure or program that would replace this, so it doesn't turn out that we've cut the misade like a log, it's gone, and there's nothing left. In that sense, the part relating to the reform that is missing here is certainly needed to dynamic in the government's future activities. The last thing I want to say is, since I have a minute left, and that's because of that, because of my personal cheek, and because of the SPS MP's group. Last time I spoke, and now there's no Mr. Jovanovic, but there's still you. I said that in the first next session, when we consider this matter, I would bring and show the whole parliament once again the final account of the economic consequences of NATO bombing, the assessment of the damage and the funds needed for Yugoslavia's economic reconstruction in the newsroom of Mladjan Dinkic, now governor of the NBJ. This final account includes a whole team of famous people, including senior DOS officials Srboljub Antić, Aleksandar Denda, Mladjan Dinkic, Dragor Hiber, etc. If the point is to suspect why we're making this possible, the government has to continue these activities in order to determine war damage. I have here a very precise writing of what is otherwise known. That's not what Slobodan Pavlovic, an SPS MP, says, so he has other intentions. It says: "It is doubtless that by aggression on the sovereign country of NATO it has trampled many provisions of international law. However, it is tragic that the victim in this case was an entire nation and its future. It is a devastating fact that NATO countries, whose largest assets are democracy and civil institutions, have decided to send a lesson and a political message to a small European country with bombs and aggression." (President: Mr. Pavlovic, 7 minutes. ) The table 1 says: "A total damage, direct from NATO bombing: infrastructure - 805,000; commercial facilities -2.884,000; non-profits -373,000; destroyed natural resources - 4,000,000,000; loss of social capital - 4,000,000,000; lost social product that is not the result of capital destruction - 23,000,000. A total of 29.6 billion damages, direct, written in the final account, with detailed arguments. I also have complete information from the Department of Construction. (President: Mr. Pavlovic, I give you a reminder that time has gone too far. I warned you twice. I won't give you a chance to warn me the third time. So we ask that war damage be charged and donations be made publicly to parliament, how much and for what purposes they are spent. I think that's correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6322	The word is Mrs. Gordana Pop - Lazic, and the next MP, Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to remind ourselves that this law is in the form of a regulation, i.e. the President of the Republic then, at the time of the war, adopted a regulation after being passed into the law, with this content, in order to solve the problems of extra employees and those whose working organisations were killed during the bombing. Here we heard Cedomir Jovanovic commenting on the past and saying that it should put an end to all this, that it was too much burden for our employees, there was a negative otium in the public, the public is asking for this law to be abolished. That's just not true. If something adorns our people, then it's a sense of solidarity in torment. At the time of the war, when we had enormous costs, which I, in my opinion, demanded, this was the only way to help those who needed help. However, it should be said that each employee's salary was progressively burdened with the solidarity daily and that not everyone had to separate themselves from their salaries for these purposes. Whether we meet in a situation like this or not, that's something we can't know in advance, because we didn't find ourselves in such a situation by our own free will on March 24th. It's really pointless for someone here to discuss it. We can't look at the bob. It depends mostly on the will of others, not our will. If we were wondering, we certainly wouldn't be bringing ourselves into this situation. I must point out that the SRS Parliament Club has proposed to abolish this law in the previous assembly session and that this item of the agenda has been included in the agenda of the last session of the Assembly in the previous session, but that it has not come to the debate, and that the Assembly is then disbanded. We felt that the burden should be transferred from our citizens to those who have done damages, or those who are obliged to pay us war damage. That was the reason we asked for the abolition of this law. We now feel that the law should be abolished, but that war damage should not be denied at all. We do condemn the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Government and some of the Republic Government, which absolutely do nothing to charge the war damage. No one has the right to give her up, and the fact that Goran Svilanovic, as someone who has given himself the right to delay for a year the demand for war damage from the International Court of Justice in The Hague, is a disgrace to this people. (President: Mrs. Pop Lazic, not the topic of the agenda, war damage. Please return to the topic. ) In general, the foreign ministry has come into the hands of obviously Serbs who do not work in the interests of this country and this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6324	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Petar Jojic, and the next is the MP, Mr. Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are well aware that there has been enough justification for the introduction of solidarity logs to help those workers and those categories of our citizens who have lost their means of existence without our guilt. To point out, and to all of you it is well known, thousands of victims who have fallen, and besides that, thousands of objects have been destroyed, and great damage has been done to them. However, I am dissatisfied with the reasoning of the legislator of the bill, which stands out, among other things, only a few companies that are damaged, such as the "Stava" Kragujevac group, "Krusik" Valjevo, MIN Nis, "Milan Blagojevic" Lucani, "14th October" Kruševac and others. However, I would only remind you of the town of Panchevo, which has suffered huge damages, which are very well known to our citizens and to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The "Azotara" in Panchev suffered, the "Petrochemicals" suffered, the "Rafineria" suffered, "Lola", "Utva" - The plane factory, which was first bombed on March 24th at 8:15 p.m., and a large number of workers were left out of work for a long time, and still one number of unemployed suffers the consequences and receives significantly less profit, not by their guilt, but by the guilt of the enemy who caused our country huge destruction and major material damage. As you can see, it was necessary for these diaries to be introduced, and what is very important should be pointed out that our citizens, workers, pensioners and all others who had made the receipts and were able to help the victims and those who needed help had come to help and had not stepped up and opposed it. However, there is no precise data in the explanation of the promoters, which are programmes, for which branch or for which company, for which factory, is precisely made up and the content of these programmes, how much resources are needed to resuscitate or continue to help businesses and to continue to help pay and provide personal income for those workers who still need this assistance. I believe that the promoter should have explained exactly what programmes, in which way, in which amounts and from which funds would continue to provide funds to those who are necessary for the monitoring and assistance of the most vulnerable, who, as I said, have been brought into such a situation without any blame. The government of the Republic of Serbia has a great responsibility and a great obligation to provide funds, to find programmes, to specify them and to publish them. It will thus prove that the government is ready and has done everything possible to help workers and to provide them with their existence. By the way, just pointing to the flat, it's not enough. It is necessary to specify precisely, extensively, from which you can see how much funding, which firm, which branch needs at this point. That is why the government is being tested to continue providing funds for these categories. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6326	The word has been made by MP Branislav Blazic, and the next one reported for the discussion is Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, solidarity has been the life of our people throughout history. She was the condition of our survival, and as once it was said that the song had kept us alive, I could say that solidarity kept us alive. That's what our people showed after the 78-day NATO aggression. This brutal aggression that has caused enormous damage, material and immaterial, damage to the soul that will last safely for decades, was once compensated by the solidarity of all our citizens. Now the situation has come to liberate the citizens of this human obligation and to take responsibility for further compensation and for the solidarity of paying people who have lost their jobs and their homes. Now the question is, who is in some way responsible and who should be the bearer of compensation for all those people whose inhumanity has been inflicted. When Gizel, an Austrian MP, brought the ultimatum of the Austrian government, Nikola Pasic attended a pre-election campaign in Krajina, Lazar Pac received it and after 24 hours, the Serbian government gave the answer. To date, it is considered to be perhaps the best answer ever given in diplomacy. In that response, the Serbian government rejected responsibility for the Sarajevo assassination, accepted parts of the ultimatum, but rejected all that is beneath national honour and is below what is considered to be a national or state independence. In this way, the Serbian government on the back of Austria transferred responsibility for the war and put on responsibility for war damage and all that follows after the war, when peace comes. What we, today with this government, have received in this diplomacy, when it comes to the responsibility for NATO aggression that lasted 78 days. We're getting more and more amnesty and we're getting donations, out of charity or out of something, which has nothing to do with war damage, is going to be a catch-up part, that part, that evil that's done to our people and the whole country. We can't forget the brutality of aggression, we can't forget that only four billion 172 million dollars is damage to the ecosystem, when they made an ecocid against us, when the chemical industry was shot, when ammunition was used with poor uranium, when in just one night, the sky and the land in Pancheva...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6328	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6329	That three chemical factories were shot at the same time. The topic is damage, which caused the Solidarity Act to be passed, and if it hadn't been for that damage, there wouldn't have been any of this law. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6330	The subject is still the law, Mr. Bliss.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6331	It's very connected to each other. It's very connected, ma'am, if you don't know it, it's terribly connected, it's one cause, and the other is the consequence. We're talking about one of the consequences that lasted and now we're taking off the agenda of breaking this law. How come I'm not talking about the cause when that cause was a condition for being a law, and the condition is that the law be lifted. Therefore, do not keep trying to in some way or to amnesty this NATO pact of all that has happened. Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6332	You can, but, of course, stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6333	Absolutely, at least I hope I've been sticking to the subject all this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6334	And your time is about to run out. It's the fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6335	So I'm going to keep talking about these consequences that have been and have caused what's been happening to us. I have to say one more thing, and that's that righteousness, which is also related to the breaking of this law, because justice is what we have, which is the power of ourselves, that we carry within ourselves, that no force can kill us with any war. This justice should precisely be the leader of this diplomacy, which needs to be provided first, to demand and seek, first and foremost, to compensate for war damage, this solidarity further compensates and pays. Any other option is avoiding it, any other option is amnesting NATO villains for what they did, any other option is injustice. Therefore, this law, in any case, what we've been saying, should be removed from the back of the citizens, but should be loaded on the back of those who eventually caused it, not released from us with a few million donations, humanitarian donations, for all the evil they have done to this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6336	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, and the next reported is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we will abolish the Solidarity Act for employees who have temporarily lost their jobs due to wartime acts. It's hard to talk about one law, which was the only possible solution, as something good. You know, when you only have one solution, then you bring it in, whether it's good or not, because there's no other. There's no way we can talk about this law, like something that was wrong. The country was attacked brutally by a much stronger enemy. The factories ran out of space, roofs, machines, installations, infrastructures, cities ran out of factories and no feeders, and the state had to react in some way. Morals, because on the 24th of March, when the sirens first picked up, began in fact the DOS campaign for the elections that were held afterwards. We, by solidarity of all Serbian citizens, have succeeded. Yes, of course, we need a clearer report on this, now that the power has been changed, we need a clear and clear report on the spending, but we have managed to keep the drive and that, to put faith in life and those who have seen that everything they have built for years, disappears in front of their eyes. During the war, this obligation was made by the president's regulation, although the Assembly could also convene, or the Assembly was to be in a permanent session, and after the war we abolished that regulation and immediately passed it into law, whose function was to build vital objects, to bring factories into what kind of -- such normal conditions, obviously stopped, and we rebelled that the Rehabilitation Directorate was building apartments that it charges on citizens by means of solidarity. That's why we proposed that this law be abolished by the end of last year. It is a pity that that congregation in that congregation did not end it, but well, we have come to this day when we abolish the Law, and we will still need the funds. And then there's a clear question -- where's the funds from? It's not all restored, it's not all restored to function, the culprit is known. The culprit is your associate, and now our army's employer, the NATO Pact, and you have to clear up in your heads, not just look at yourself like I'm saying something I don't know, like I'm saying something out of hatred for you. You have to, like the people who run the country to clear up whether this country can survive under the burden of war damage of maybe 100 billion dollars, and that for this war damage, it doesn't put an account in place, but that it additionally burdens its citizens with humiliation by the highest state officials going to the feet of the commanders, who so soullessly brought down in Serbia everything they could or received here with the highest state honors, just as if they had no blame for everything that happened to us. The easiest thing to do now is to tell NATO the Pact -- here, we've lifted another lead about you tearing us down, that you've killed us that you've destroyed us, but we need a car factory in a state where it was pre-aggressive. We need refineries in a state where they were pre-aggression, we need "Milan Blagojevic" in a state where he was pre-aggression, "Krusik", "Freedom", Pančeva industry, we need all of this in a state where there was pre-aggression, and we know who is obliged to return to a state where there was pre-aggression. Our children's lives can't be restored, but that's why they can give us back our infrastructure. I didn't ask you anything. I'm talking about the lives of our children, you dare to throw me away now, and you're some kind of doctor. If they can get their lives back, and they can't, who's lost a child, they have to pay us war damage, and it's a crime, and anyone who forgives them will answer. No one's in power most of the time. Now individuals in power will be responsible for many things that are sewn on them and are guilty and not guilty, and I am now telling you, today I am speaking after this speaker: whoever forgives the pact of war will answer before the people. The moment you lose the election, which means by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6338	Mr. Nikolic, I warn you on time and topic, it's not a trial of NATO pacts.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6339	If it wasn't for the NATO Pact, there wouldn't have been this law, my dear lady, this law would have been unnecessary. If it wasn't for the NATO Pact, we wouldn't need a dinar of humanitarian aid. It's crocodile tears to destroy you, completely destroy you, and repair two drugs to treat you afterwards. And quite a cast to wrap our wounds with it, and that cast doesn't tighten after five days and on it is the date of production in 1947. So we're going to vote to stop the law, but we're asking you now how you're going to replace those funds and we're asking you now how much you're going to be embarrassed by amnesting a NATO pact for this or some other speaker from what he's been doing to Serbia. There's no such thing as a major crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6340	Labour and Employment Minister Dragan Milovanovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6341	What people think of DOS, it showed in the elections when he gave the two-thirds majority in this House, and what happens to the solidarity logs, many in this country know. Normally, the solidarity law had its purpose and justification and most of the funds were used for what it was intended for. However, like everything that was touched by that so-called. The government of the People's Unity, so did the solidarity logs, because the people who ran that government were not clean, so these people used those funds, those solidarity logs for various other purposes, not for what they were meant for. Since this is about the flag and Kragujevac, Mr Nikolic is constantly bonding with these large companies, I have here a piece of paper showing that "the flag" from the solidarity funds has really touched the SRS, and is signed by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic. It's a sum exactly 127,600 dinars. It is not just her, and some other parties have touched each other in this way, and many other things have been done since the solidarity logs. It's that flag again. When supplies were purchased for workers in the flag, 300 thousand gallons of edible oil were missing. That's what I had to say just because it's laminate here on that law and how DOS representatives are responsible for everything. Once again, when a gentleman throws himself here, I must say, since I was president of the Association of Free and Independent Unions, that the only union that did not ask to abolish solidarity logs was the Association of Free and Independent Unions, because it was considered a good move, an amazingly good move by the former Government of People's Unity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6342	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic and he is the last registered candidate for discussion on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't understand how Mr. Minister is changing his mind so quickly. It's time for one law, it's class against him, and it's even abolishing it. The fact that this DOS law separates the citizens in two rows: to those who should and those who should not live. When Mr. Minister explained his exposé on the occasion of his exposé, he told us where the funds were put in place, he mentioned some abuses, but given how much the funds were involved, and abuses, if any, are not significant. The only thing that can be objected to by this law is the fact that it was a burden on citizens and that is the only reason why this law should be abolished. But now another question is being asked, what about workers who did not stay gathered. Mr. Minister, will your ministry take care of them, and if you say they will, I can tell you in advance that this is impossible for the reasons that an even greater number of workers will be burdened by the aggression of DOS tax laws will burden your ministry and your budget. The only way to take care of these workers, which is the attitude of the SRS and its parliamentary groups, is to collect war damage. That's why these problems and the causes of passing one of these laws would be solved, but I'm surprised now by the mood in this government and how it charges that war damage. Instead of procuring for payment, he postpones the payment requirements for a year or more. Secondly, it reduces the legal basis for Yugoslavia and Serbia to ever collect war damage. Some ministers from this government are extremely pushing for the delivery of Serbs to The Hague, and even arrest some of our politicians, not to say former SRJ presidents, for $50m. With the money that gets us arrested by our politicians and the humiliation of an entire country, you can't pay, gentlemen, not a single day of cost that NATO had during the aggression. Not a single day. Only the delivery of Serbs to The Hague reduces the legal basis. Because there's no possibility...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6344	Mr. Arsic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6345	Well, on the subject, and I'm talking about how to take care of these workers, we break the law. So, the legal basis is diminishing, because these people have no legal ability to defend themselves against that court. At the same time, we amnesty is given to all politicians who participated in this aggression and whose hands and conscience are well-deprecated with Serbian blood. Instead of punishing them, we punish our citizens, and when they come here, we wait for them with the red carpet and the highest military honors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6346	The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragan Vuksic
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I didn't think I'd be going out for a pay phone today, but I also expected that there wouldn't be much to say to individuals who initially declared this law as a technical law and also announced that it would not be discussed, that it would be a relatively brief debate. I thought -- if it's going to be a brief debate, it's going to be constructive and that today, when we talk about solidarity, no matter what side we look at that ethical category, we're going to stick to some princips and maybe, for a moment, we're going to be above ourselves, at least some of us, and we're going to have some basic dignity. Since that is not the case, then allow me to take a brief look at the discussions so far rather than at the very request, because the law effectively regulates what is already regulated by the regulation. I just want to remind you that the discussion of certain people here, certain MPs, reminded me again of that people's "Everything is measurable, only human stupidity and human insolence is immeasurable." We saw it in action today. The way individuals discuss the victims and how they approach the problem clearly confirms that. It would have been better for them if they had abstained from the discussion, because what they were saying was talking about them. I'm sure the people, the voters, the people who watch what's going on in this house, will understand. Secondly, all that happened around Kosovo, in terms of Kosovo and Kosovo, is a civilizational disgrace, just like the West, especially in the US and NATO, as well as in the Slobodan Milosevic regime. How are we going to deal with the West, with the United States, with NATO, that's what we'll see. The way we've been out so far, we've seen it. But we are here to call on the responsibility of those who participated and who led to what happened to Kosovo, Kosovo and Kosovo, about what happened. Some of them sit here in this room and are part of the role of MPs. I'm sorry it's like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6348	Mr. Vuksic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6349	Third, there was one question here -- whether what happened in Kosovo, around Kosovo and about Kosovo had to come. One MP claimed that this was how it had to be. I want to be very clear, in short, once, for the second time, for the third time and for the hundredth time -- it shouldn't have come to that and it didn't have to come. I hope that we will soon put the subject on the agenda and that those who have led us to this will no longer declare us traitors, mercenaries and everything else. Until that happens, we will listen to discussions like this in the National Assembly. And lastly, the question arises: is something like this going to happen again? I hope that this will never happen again and that the people and the states will never again find themselves in a similar or similar situation. Personally, as a People's Messenger, as a man, I will do everything I can to keep it from happening. But I'm not sure this will happen and it won't happen again if the quasilevists, the wastes and remains of the communists, some Serbian rights fighters and Serbian national interests -- to the last Serb, some voluntary donors of other people's blood, and if the Democrats from Ravna Gora are still joining you, those who are now, yesterday or before, are pulling knives on Ravno Gora, then it will certainly come to that. I'm sure our people understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6350	According to the Rules of Procedure, he has the word Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6351	I'm in charge of article 95. I'm asking the National Assembly to make a statement about the violation of Article 101 of the pre-latest position. The MP, Mr Vuksic, said here that human stupidity is immeasurable and thus offended Minister Milovanovic. Please make it clear to the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6352	Mr. Baralic, I give you a warning about the insult you have made to the minister. You abused a pay phone to do it, you answered the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by the MP, Mr. Vukic, as representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, really interesting things happen in the National Assembly session room. You will allow me to protest the chairman's behaviour, because she gave notice to MP Baralic just now, and she did not say a word to Ambassador Vuksic, who spoke for six minutes, and in no word at all about a law that is on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6354	Neither did you, and I warned him on the subject, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6355	... And she gave a warning to an MP who specifically called on his words, repeated the same thing he said. And you didn't say a word when he was talking about human nonsense and insolence. But that's a statement I agree with. That's right, Mr. Vuksic. It's immeasurable and boundless human stupidity and human insolence. There's no doubt about that. Everything you've demonstrated from this pay phone is exactly the best example. And as for this law and what we were talking about, Mr. Vuksic, so-called. Daytonski, he showed us - since he was one of those who advised Slobodan Milosevic, don't be surprised that Mr. Ivkovic, who passed this way by Slobodan Milosevic, they were around him, they advised him and it's no wonder that he is where he is not guilty of NATO, but are guilty of someone else. I'm moving on to the law, if you weren't worried anymore, because God forbid we talked for five minutes about what Mr. Vuksic was talking about, we'd already be on our way to Prokuplje, Prepolje. Who knows where you'd throw us all out? So, as far as NATO itself is concerned, which is why the Solidarity Act has been passed, it seems to us that when someone commits such a crime, there is no excuse for the conclusion. You can't, even if there were, if we were to take a certain thing, if I had offended you, and you would have taken and killed me and the whole family, it would not only be an inadequate answer, not an excessive use of force, but a crime. And there wasn't even that here. We didn't want to take and preserve California, Texas or Arizona in America, but our intention was just to keep Kosovo and the Metohija in Serbia and nothing more than that. Not to allow the daily killing of Serbs. That, of course, the state is dealing with terrorists. Just for that, and nothing else. And because of that and nothing else, the NATO pact bombed this country, killed our people, destroyed our infrastructure and destroyed everything that came. That's the key reason. That's the point. And what do we have after all and all the trouble after all that? The key problem is how to charge war damage and how to get war damage. Instead of agreeing, to see what is the best possible way, in which we can make all that money, where we ask everything, how to prove it, this is about huge money, it's about hundreds of billions of marks, it's something that this country can, not only survive, but to live well and invest in its future, and we give it up, and then we'll still accuse the Serbs, that they're guilty of the American bombs falling on them, to allow you to be an ambassador to Switzerland, or in another country. And they won't give it to you now, because you've been working with Slobodan Milosevic, you've been there active in the military service, etc. So now it is necessary, in order for you to court them in such a way, that the more you attack your own people, your own army, Serbia's leadership and SRJ etc., the more you attack your own people. It is not even moral, in the extreme line, and that is why I think that when we adopt this law, and I propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we consider this and that the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly consider what is important, what is really vital -- how we can get money, our money, what belongs to us, and that's money from war damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6356	Mr. Wolfie, please return to the topic, and you've already talked about it in the first two reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6357	I really can't believe I'm talking about the money we're supposed to get, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6358	But what does that have to do with this bill now?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6359	So did you read it?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6360	That's a special subject, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6361	Well, you haven't read the bill, but it doesn't matter, I end up in the middle of the line. For that to be seen, it's a much more important question, if you will, even from the question of succession, which we have also wrongly approached, a much more important question, because that is where our salvation lies, not in their alleged help and alleged charity, because if they pay us what they objectively owe us, we don't need any help or charity. This is ours, and we're not looking for what's theirs. We don't need anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6362	Just so you know, MP Dragan Vuksic has been warned in the fourth minute and you can check it out. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Baralic Wait for the Rules of Procedure first, and you'll get your word. [[Employer Vuksic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6363	There's no replica to advertising the Rules of Procedure, certainly no replica. Gentlemen of the People, those who were in kindergarten know that children, who had the behavior of our esteemed chairman, children called themselves carnages, that's what these people are called. The provisions of Article 101 have been violated. Rules of Procedure. I will read the whole article: "The notice is made to the MP, who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly President (I did not do so), who speaks before asking for a word (I received a word), who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks about a question that is not on the agenda (I have spoken to the Rules of Procedure), if he interrupts the speaker in the presentation, or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise threatens the freedom of speech (I did not do so, although others have done so to this speaker, or to me), if he presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of others (I did not do so), if he uses curses and offensive expressions (I did not do so, I quoted something that the previous debater said), if other proceedings violate order in the session, or acts against the provisions of the Rules of the Rules of Procedures (I did not do so). On several occasions, several MPs spoke of Minister Milovanovic with insufficient sense of measure. Twice, speaking of this speaker, I spoke very correctly about Mr. Milovanovic. Mr. Milovanovic can also confirm that. Mr. Minister spoke directly before Mr. Vuksic, who said human stupidity is immeasurable. I said that this way Mr. Vuksic insulted Mr. Minister. I've neither had any mime nor irony in my voice, nor in any other way made it known to anyone that I was making fun of the Parliament or the minister. Madam Chairman, you can't give a warning about how you can think of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6364	Mr. Baralic, on the basis of article 100 for breach of order in the session of the National Assembly President, can express the following measures - the confiscation, and this is not debated, you understand, Mr. Baralic. You've re-abused the pay phone, and it's been three minutes, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6365	You have injured the Rules of Procedure, because my proposal has not been spoken out, the Assembly has not spoken out. That, ma'am, here, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and everything else is politics. I ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, of the pre-latest position. That was my request, and everything else you do is politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6366	I'm making Mr. Baralic's suggestion that I've injured Article 101. The Rules of Procedure and that I gave him an unfounded reminder, which he didn't deserve. I ask the MPs to plead by voting whether or not I have injured Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 59, against 104 abstentions, there were no 12 votes, out of 180 MPs, which means there was no violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He has the word National MP Dragan Vuksic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6367	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, and in the future I will remind you of people's wisdom, because we who went to school and around school sometimes try to formulate something, express and reflect something that the people long ago, with a few words, have spoken and represent the truth for all time. That's one thing. Secondly, I haven't named anyone, but if Mr. Wolfie felt hurt, and felt the need to answer, I have nothing against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6368	Mr. Ivkovic has the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6369	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when a man gets his final word, then he has a self-inflicted thought of what he wants to say, and it's not easy to agree. First, as far as I know, Mr. Vukic only mentioned the name Ivkovic, and no one else. Secondly, it's been eight months since DOS government at the republican and federal level. Somehow, it would be normal to expect eight months, so it would be normal to expect, dear gentlemen and ladies, that the voice of reason still prevails, that the negative energy of personal dissatisfaction, the affected vanity is spent and that in the interest of Serbian citizens we all start living and working normally. That this slaughter that was cast into the total extreme calmed down and allow this country to Serbia and Serbia's citizens, Madam Chairman, to allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6370	Please, let's listen to Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6371	I appeal, eight months have passed, personal vanity, dissatisfactions, memories of who did what to whom, don't throw much greater extremes. Calm things down in the interests of Serbian citizens. Don't be offended, there were serious insults to the pay phone here. Very heavy. Whether they refer to one person or another, and they should hit anyone in this room, because they're even said that everyone in this room is responsible for it, that and that. No, not our people, not our citizens, Mr. Wolfie, have chosen here to discuss now the wisdom of the people that the gentleman mentions. We were elected by the citizens of Serbia here to consider proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to assess what these proposals are, to improve them, to make the economy work, to make the standard of citizens grow. What have we done to Serbian citizens since January to this day? We've increased the procedures from the national product from 7.4% to 14%. Three-and-a-half times we've increased our budget, we've raised our taxes, we've raised our taxes, and what's the result? (From O.R.: Theme. ) The theme is this, my dear lady, who sits in the seat of the distinguished Mr. Raka Radovic, the topic is mutual relations in the Assembly. Let's forget the people of party division and let's work in the interest of this Serbia. Please, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6372	Are you answering? Replica. Right on line, MP Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to notice that I may not be smart enough (the voice from the O.R.: we know that. But I didn't understand, but I can admit it, I can say it, and maybe I have the courage to say it publicly, and for you all know it, and that you don't even have to say it at all, it's understood, the problem is that you don't know that there's not enough. I ask you to remind those who earn, and they never had any knowledge or knowledge...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6374	I can warn Mr Tomislav Nikolic, since I heard him too. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6375	I don't mean Mr Tomislav Nikolic, because I haven't heard him, I've heard a certain DOS MP, I don't know who he is. If you want to, anyway...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6376	Indeed, I ask you not to throw the Messenger away when he is behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6377	I ask you to be correct and to make your unsuspecting jokes with those with whom you can crush them, and not with the smarter of yourself, and here I confess. That Tomislav Nikolic is smarter than me, let alone you, so there's no need to move on and throw things like that away. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6378	What about the smartest Vojislav Seselj?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6379	Will you let me carry on?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6380	Please, let's listen to Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6381	So, as far as everything Mr Vuksic said is concerned (From Hall: Theme. I don't think I mentioned him personally, of course, I thought of him and it's no problem for him to come out to talk, if you ask me, and I'd let someone say something again, I never run away from it, and it seems to me to be gentlemanly, Serbian, manly as you will. What I think is the biggest problem And now if I tell you that they're sharp-headed or that they're Jaftars, you'll give me a warning, I don't know what else to say. [[Laughter]] It really doesn't make any sense what they're doing. So, as for what Mr. Vukshiuq said, I just have to point to the fact that here is a fundamental problem. It is not so much a problem that Mr. Ivkovic won't say that there were a million problems with you being close to Milosevic, that you ran that policy, and even if you want to hand over a piece of Republika Srpska's territory to the West, then when we were the only ones who criticized the Dayton Peace Agreement, because you were there and we weren't Serbian radicals. The problem is something else. He was, rather than what he was, and the problem is that Mr. Vuksic took an oath and not only as a soldier, like all of us who served the military deadline, but he also has one greater obligation, as someone who was one of the top JNA officers. That man has a special obligation to defend the country against the enemy. And not to criticize your country, your leadership, your army, your people, and defend another country, that country that attacked our country, that killed our children, that destroyed our country. That's the problem, Mr. Vuksic, and that's what can't be allowed. And, Mr. Ivkovic, in just a few sentences, every time there's a debate, when there's a conflict of opinion between us and DOS, every time you show up to tell us a lesson to each other, you tell us how we should talk, and I don't know what I'm talking about, I don't know what we need to talk about, so come and tell us what the subject is. What are we supposed to be talking about, what are we really supposed to be talking about right now? I think we talked about what was on the agenda, and about war damage and solidarity logs, and some of your MPs talked about it. I don't see where any of the MPs of the DOS or the MPs of the SRS were wrong. Please don't hold that kind of sermon for us in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6382	Is it Mr. Ivkovic's word, the replica right or the representative of the parliamentary group? On what basis are you looking for? Replica. You're the one who caused the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6383	Madam Chairman, to solve the problem and not to be accused of giving me the right to reply, may I be speaking as president of the parliamentary group for the first time on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6384	He can't because Mr. Obradovic has already spoken twice, the third call is yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6385	Mr. Obradovic spoke once, then this is the second time. I'm glad the distinguished ladies remember how many times the Socialists speak in this assembly. Well, obviously that's not easy, but we're gonna try not to piss you off. Mr. Vucicou, I'm going out here for a pay phone to mention both you and the others, that we are here in the Assembly to work in the interests of Serbian citizens, and the interest of Serbian citizens is not that we're taking out papers for each other whether these are then paid, and mostly here we have privileged people who are just pulling out some papers. I mean, we're gonna start pulling papers, too, but that's not right. We're invited here to take out the papers. Papers match, just so you know. More and more papers are coming into the SPS parliamentary group, but that's not why the citizens chose us. Our citizens chose not to be inquisitors, civil servants, but to be in the Assembly... Please let me speak. Our citizens have been elected here in the Assembly to work, to bring legal projects that will allow for better living in this country, not just to listen to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing. We're also pulling the initiative. Here in the assembly there is a request from the SPS parliamentary group to discuss Kosovo and Metohija, the south of Serbia, the redefine relations between Montenegro and Serbia within the SRJ, and we here in the Assembly should discuss whether we need donor conferences at all. Why should we collect crumbs from the table of those who destroyed us, who killed 1,500 Serbian citizens, who proved material damage of 32 billion dollars to this country, from those who hold our two billion dollars frozen in foreign banks. Only at Exim Bank, in America, is 500 million dollars of this country frozen. Why do we need a donor conference? Do you know how donor conferences end? If there's a billion dollars at a donor conference, it's known that $900 million will go into the business of those countries, to deliver us those goods and technologies they don't need. All 100 million dollars will go into our labor force That's the darkness. [[Tossing from O.R.: Theme.]] What's the Assembly supposed to do? The assembly should require the key people of this country to demand that SRJ funds be defrosted in European and world banks, that our money be returned to us. When we get our money back, this people are smart, this people are worth it, this people will raise production and raise the standard. We don't need any donor conferences. Please, let me speak. Please, let's listen to Mr. Ivkovic. ) As far as the subject is concerned, Mr. Zarko Obradovic and Mr. Slobodan Pavlovic have decidently expressed the view of the SPS parliamentary group, when the repeal of the Solidarity Act is at stake. All it has to do is say that this law was passed at a time when it was truly unimaginable and played a great role. No country under war attacks has been able to gather as much potential as it gathered in the government of the Republic of Serbia, scientists and experts on the economic and social recovery programme of the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia on 5 April 1999, after the aggression. The law was passed on May 4th. The law had noble goals and fulfilled them. Who's here from Cacca, and the opposition has to admit what happened to "Freedom" Cacak, with "Cera" from Cacca, that I don't list all those companies that are already mentioned here. The job received 75,000 workers, 75,000 families of material and social security. We believe he played his part in these changed conditions. We voted in the transitional government and it needs to be abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6386	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6387	For more than half an hour, we've been attending the Ujdura and something that has nothing to do with the agenda at all, because, unfortunately, it's an MP from the political group, i.e. the political coalition that I belong to, violated Article 98(1). - "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. "You, Madam Chairman, allowed him to speak for six minutes and then allowed the opposition to do further obstruction, 35 minutes we were wasting time, and we could have already moved on to the second item of the agenda. In the end, I would ask all the leftists, whatever political group they belong to in this House, to stop speaking so by heart or by what they learned in the schools about the Plain Mountain. The straight mountain is the pride of our history and I ask you no longer to declare yourself to the Straight Mountain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6388	Mr. Shormaz, I am obliged to answer you. I don't know if you were there when Mr. Vuksic spoke, for three minutes and 50 seconds I warned him to come back on the subject. That's how I worked with other MPs, and I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6389	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we just seem to have strayed from the agenda. In essence, all of these points of the agenda are actually in the function of this congregation, which in itself and most of all is exactly what it was in the last 30 minutes. It doesn't matter whether the draft law on the termination of the Solidarity Act for employees who temporarily lost their jobs due to wartime acts, or whether this is an opportunity to talk about NATO bombing and war damage to those who were happy with the air-hazard sirens. I would only answer a few important questions that deserve an answer that should not be avoided. Our country has made a very serious approach to defining the problem of war damage collection. We are waging a court dispute with NATO members of the pact that have committed aggression on our country, in violation of international rights. In that sense, all those criticisms that presented us in a different way were unfounded. If someone is not clear as far as this dispute has arrived at this time, I remind them that the address, in accordance with the Constitution, is the address of the Federal Parliament to which it is to ask that question and I believe that it will receive a concrete answer as soon as possible. So no one thought he was amnesting the culprits of responsibility, nor did any of us think he was messing with the victims of that war, regardless of nationality. As for the basis for the adoption of this law, I don't think any of us today have challenged the motives that led to, first, the adoption of a regulation, and then, when the conditions for calling Parliament, the vote of the law on the basis of which the funds were collected from the solidarity logs. I said that in the final budget for 2000 we would be able to talk about the way these funds were spent, whether they were spent on purpose or not. This isn't a chance for anything like that. This was an opportunity to put an end to a brief assembly debate, not on what our history is, as one of the MPs misquoted me, but rather on the point of providing funds in one way that was necessary in itself, but was not good: to burden those who are already truly unacceptablely burdened. So the state will assume on itself the obligations it must assume and these obligations it practically took as early as November 2000. Practically, no funds have been collected from the solidarity logs ever since, and obligations are regularly met. We can also talk about how these funds are provided. Most of the time, so far it's been funded from donations. Whether we like it or not, it's a different topic, but these are facts: 800,000 refugees in this country survive to the greatest extent thanks to the funds that come through donations. In the Lucians, you heard, and the few problems that could be solved, were solved by the funds received from the donor. As one of us feels in that situation, it's a completely individual question. I don't think a country that depends on a donation is happy, nor can society consider itself successful. But we have a serious business ahead of us. I hope that very soon we ourselves will be able to cover the needs we owe to cover. I don't think those remarks that were made here and that our relationship with the international community interpreted as unpatriot. Believe that the best citizens themselves know to what extent they need help and how important it is to them the address from which this assistance is provided in a specific case. So, I urge you to pass this law, that all the discussions that were held during the last two hours, characteristic of the Parliament itself, are not something that will follow our work until its end, so until 7:30 and try to bind ourselves to the law. If we have not succeeded in the previous 16 points of the agenda, let the Law on Changes to the Health Insurance Act not be a cause for us to talk about those who rejoiced in the NATO Pact bombs, not to talk about those who look forward to the victims in southern Serbia or Kosovo and Metohija, but to bind ourselves to the problem and try to solve it most effectively. The Law on the Earnings of Employees in State Authorities is a good example of our willingness to constructively speak to the opposition and respect everything the opposition proposes. So I'm asking you for a basic courtesy, because, believe me, we don't feel obliged to respond even in those situations where we feel more than hurt. In this assembly, in the DOS parliamentary group, there are people who have had personal victims during the NATO Pact bombing, there are people who were members of the regular units of the Ministry of the Interior and the Yugoslav Army, and believe that it is really unacceptable for us to participate in a work that is in itself so demoting for our society. No one is looking forward to what our past is, and if we want those days ahead to be different, we must be an example of a new age, which, in itself, is neither good nor good to the authorities nor to the opposition, but to our society which has been unfortunate enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6390	Does anyone else sign up for a word? If you don't, I'll conclude the initial search. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Solidarity Act for employees who temporarily lost their jobs due to war acts in principle. For 155, against 11, there were no abstentions, there was no 13 vote, and a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law on the termination of the Solidarity Act for employees who have temporarily lost their jobs due to war acts in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. However, since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, before I conclude the particulars search, does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Solidarity Act for employees who have temporarily lost their jobs due to military acts in general. For 157 against 10, the abstentioned were not voted 12, a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill in general. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Health Insurance Law You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Tomislav Nikolic, Branislav Blažic, Petar Petrovic, Bozidar Vujic, Slobodan Janjic, Goran Cvetanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Dragan Todorovic, Predrag Bajcetic, as well as the government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. ) Here you are, Minister of Health, Mr Obren Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6391	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Salads, I will try to express in a brief introduction what these amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act apply to. In fact, the public health sector in Serbia is based on a system of mandatory social and health insurance. The sector is financed through the contributions made out of salaries and managed by the Health Insurance Fund. In the last 10 years, there has been a major and terrible deterioration compared to 1990. In 1990, we had a 200 dollar per capita leave in the Health Insurance Fund, so that the percentage of payments would today fall to about 30 dollars per capita, while the level of health care remained the same. We have a drastic loss, i.e. a lack of funds in the Health Protection Fund, and we have the same needs. Besides, the massive system we inherited does not guarantee us a quality transition, because we are running out, first of all, of financial resources, of change management and that our sector is not qualified to enter transition in a quality way. All the changes we're planning to make are so far limited by existing health laws. There are two laws that regulate the area of health care, which are the Law on Health Protection and the Law on Mandatory Social and Health Insurance. None of the other laws, except that they are highly centralised, don't guarantee us and don't allow us to change quality. That is why the health ministry has come up with new laws relating to the health sector and these are the new health care law, the health insurance law, and the new health care law, which must regulate the private sector that was founded in 1990, but has failed to take over the part needed to take over in order to facilitate overall health care. I'll, since I'm not a lawyer, I'm not going to read enough terms from what's-his-name. The language of the administration, which I usually call bureaucratic, let me read you a part of the opening statement, in order to make it more clear to us what this is about. In order to ensure uniform functioning of the fiscal system, set on gross earnings, it was inevitable to approach amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act. It is about amendments to the existing law, and many laws are already over, and will be available to all healthcare professionals and all who are interested in health care before they enter the official public debate we will have in Belgrade. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act have been made only in the section relating to the financing of compulsory health insurance. In the coming period, by 1 June 2001, when this law enters into force, further harmonisation of the other provisions of the law will be carried out, especially in the part relating to health insurance rights, the right to profit compensation during temporary labour prevention, the right to compensation for travel expenses, as well as the right to pay for funeral expenses, therefore the funeral home, with the newly established principle of gross earnings rights. The essential changes and additions to the Health Insurance Act relate to the full affirmation of gross earnings, which is also the basis for the calculation and payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance. In that respect, the principle of gross earnings, set up in the Labour Relations Act, is accepted, into which all incomes of the employee under labour rights are entered. These are earnings, profit benefits, income supplements, as well as contributions to compulsory health and social insurance, and income tax. The basis on which the contribution is calculated and paid for compulsory health insurance for employees and with them equalised compulsory insurance persons is gross earnings earned on the basis of the job price, labour performance and time spent on work. In gross earnings, as the basis for the payment of contributions for compulsory health insurance, the amount of the remuneration of the employee on the basis of a warm meal, regression, field allowance and other remuneration of the employee who makes it in accordance with the Labour Relations Act and the applicable collective agreements shall also enter into force. The proposed amendments and additions agree with the proposed changes and additions in other types of compulsory social security, i.e. in the area of PIO, as well as unemployment insurance. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law retain the principle of the minimum basis for the calculation and payment of the contribution, in the case where the earnings are paid in less than the prescribed base law. The lowest required basics in the range of 3,033 dinars, for non-professional, first and second-degree jobs, up to 12,724 dinars, for jobs for which the expertise acquired by a doctorate is required, i.e. the eighth-degree, are calculated with the application of the gross principle and are determined according to the degree of professional capacity and the prices of jobs established by the border collective contract. The proposed basics, in addition to the employee's earnings, calculated in accordance with the Labour Relations Act and the collective contract, include amounts based on regression and a warm meal. It is proposed to coordinate the minimum bases three months with the movement of earnings of employees in the Republic, and based on data from the Republic's statistical authority, to publish harmonised amounts of the basics the Republic Health Insurance Office, in order to facilitate and uniformly apply in practice. The introduction of the lowest basis for the calculation and payment of contributions in previous amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, which entered into force on 1 January 1999, proved to be a good solution, thus achieving better financial effects of payment of contributions than previously existing legal solutions. In this way, it has been reduced the ability of employers to avoid paying contributions for the actual earnings paid, i.e. it is impossible for one number of employers to pay reduced earnings to the employees, while the other part of the earnings is paid outside of legal flows, avoiding, of course, the payment of taxes and contributions. You know, the biggest debtors to the Health Insurance Fund are big systems. Large systems are the smallest percentage of total production systems in this country, but they are the biggest losers. I don't need to remind you that "Gosa" in Smederjevska Palanca has long since failed, that the "Electron Industry" has failed, that "The Machine Idustry" has failed, that Mr. Matkovic is growing mushrooms in Sartid, etc., and they are just the biggest debtors and the smallest funds single into the Health Fund. The proposed changes also include the introduction of the highest basis on which a contribution to health insurance is paid. The highest base is prescribed in the five-fold gross earnings of the employed in the Republic, according to data from the competent authority in charge of statistics. In this way, profits above the required amount are charged only with personal income tax, while contributions to compulsory social security, including health insurance, are not paid to the amount of earnings above the most established basis. This will create conditions for legal reporting of such earnings and preventing tax evasion, which will certainly have positive effects in achieving the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The proposed changes make the conditions for correction, reduction of the contribution rate for health insurance, and thus other types of compulsory health insurance. So, we wanted to tax gross earnings, and the base to be reduced to get as much money as possible into the Health Insurance Fund. Most often on television and in newspapers, they criticize the minister for not having anything, no drugs, no equipment, services are expensive, etc. Every one of you and every one of you who's watching this transmission should tell the health minister where the money is, I'll go get it right away, and I'll spend it all on the most vulnerable categories in health care. Of course, this will create conditions for further recovery of the economy in the coming period. Yes, we rule, if you throw it that way, it's true, we manage at this point in the state, but you left us a wasteland, empty funds, the Health Insurance Fund is in short supply, an inherited deficit of over 420 million marks. The total health debt at this point amounts to over two billion marks. That's what you gentlemen have left us, and now we need to patch it up and give the people the same level of health and the same level of health they've had since 1990, when 200 dollars per capita is out, and now we don't have $30 per capita. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law also strengthened the control function of the payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance, the Republic Health Insurance Office, as well as the competent authority for payment services. The Republic Health Insurance Office is popularly referred to as the Fund. We all mention that because of the people who listen, I'm talking about the Health Insurance Fund. Otherwise, it's not right. It's a proper health insurance office. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law provide for and delayed application of this law until 1 June 2001, as well as all other laws in the field of the fiscal system. In this way, the conditions will be created for employers to adjust their business, i.e. in the period until 1 June 2001, the calculation of earnings, and thus the basis for payment of contributions to the municipal collective contract, as well as the border collective agreement. That's what I had to tell you for the first time, and then, of course, we'll talk depending on how much anyone boasts or attacks changes and additions to the Health Protection Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6392	I thank the minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. Do MPs want a word? No, I don't. We're moving on to a discussion of the MPs of the people. The first to be reported is MP Dragoljub Vojnovic, and the next MP is Predarag Mijailović - Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the first time in this House in my 63rd year, and I am the first time behind this pay phone after all this time. I feel competent to talk about this, because if I experience this next year, I'm going to have 40 years of medical training. Why did I come out? I went out to tell you that I would support this law and invite you to support it, too, without many discussions that would look like those we've had so far. Why? This isn't about the new law, because we're going to get the health system law, as promised by Mr. Minstar. This is about two facts: changes in the contribution rate are already foreseen by the budget law and we have discussed this for days. The paper is that the mechanisms are intended for the contributions to be paid, and that is, in my opinion, the most important. Why is it important? The first reason was stated in the explanation of this proposal, and he says that a good part of employers avoided paying social security contributions and this was also reflected in pension insurance, but could be delayed. However, when it comes to health insurance, the use of health insurance rights is a permanent procedure that involves providing the necessary funds at the monthly level. The lack, gentlemen, of these funds was reflected in the state of health employees. Just to remind you that during this most difficult period, you can say, our history was mostly health workers and worked. As much as they were paid, we don't want to talk about it. A doctor with 100 marks couldn't provide basic existential conditions for his family, but that's not the scariest. Maybe my colleagues who look at me will say it's not the scariest thing. The scarier of it is something else, that, and I'll remind you that the old Indian proverb says that the doctor must have the heart of the lion and the hand of the gentlest woman. We lost that lion's heart. For what reason? We became part of the Lapota ceremony due to these lack of funds. They know what a laptop is, but I won't tell you about it. That dedication, where I was born, exists. How's that? So if your son comes to you, so if you tell him that for diagnosing the most common changes in the blood vessels of the brain, which can be removed, he needs a poor man to pay 50 or 100 marks, to collect himself somewhere, and he says - Doctor, I'm going to take my mother home, so he should die, and that mother is 15 years less than me and your age. Doctors have become part of this ceremony of lapota, which is scarier than having them live badly. Another thing I'd like to say, gentlemen, health care is one of the most important segments of social life, and every country and society in their relationship with a sick man is presented. I won't be long, and since it's an important segment, health care is as expensive as an army today, as an army. So that we don't experience this, at the end of our working century, and my colleagues and my students at the beginning of our working century, let's try to use these means that are mandatory and that are due to arrive, make sure this doesn't happen. Let's not argue too much, because we'll discuss it later when the laws come out that Mr. Minister predicted. I urge you once again to vote in favour of this bill for these reasons. So I end up, with a request for something else: Gentlemen, there were hard and offensive words here. I take the liberty of saying one verse of Desanka Maksimovic: "I was a shepherd and knew the whites best to find at the bottom of the river peace, because of a rod called to go all the way, I am a peasant and I can also say to break through." Gentlemen, read the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6394	As representative of the parliamentary group, the word gets Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, like the others, I thought I'd wait a little while with my first call, but there are situations where you can't wait. This is one of those situations. After a previous speaker, who has two arches, one of whom he warns others, and the other doesn't feel at all like he's doing any scarier, worse things, a nice, peaceful voice, a nice accent, somewhere from Nis or the environment, and he's saying terrible things that warn the situation, especially if they're spoken by a man who says he's a doctor. I ask the predecessor that at the end of his working century, once again after this speaker says which Lapota ceremony is being applied today by doctors, or whether he participates in these ceremonies, whether the current government is guilty, whether the previous power is guilty and whether he even knows how hard it is to say today, and I suppose he is a man who knows it, to tell older people that their children, sons, grandchildren are involved in the lapotoma. Fortunately, I've been spared until now, except for the accident, the need to speak to doctors. I've never encountered an inhumane relationship, never, even when it was the hardest and they were against the policy I've ever had, so it was now that DOS came to power, I was at the Emergency Centre in Belgrade and I never came across a doctor who would hate me because I'm a politician from another option and I've never seen a doctor who would kill an old man just because he's old. The second is the story - whether this country has the opportunity to treat sick people, especially chronic patients, and especially whether it has the opportunity to extend the life span to elderly people who are not at all sick, but there are medicines that a man at a certain age of his life begins to drink, and it is considered healthy. Those drugs are now the most expensive. Those drugs can't be bought now. And if you're reading the daily press that is completely in favor of you, but they still promote stories about how older people stopped getting drugs, those who are not on the list, there are them where the register is, but there, according to Milan Panic, whom Vladan Batic wanted to give to the drug factory, there is a "coming plus" already 1,300 dinars. Here we have our health minister, who was in charge of financially explaining a law, which really wasn't his job, and we didn't need him to read the explanation, and we didn't need him to attend this session to discuss a law that was purely financial. This is not a law that even gives an opportunity to talk about the situation with our patients. Is that better now or sometimes? Is it better now than two months ago, five or a year ago or ten years ago? With us, it's constantly falling, and it's only going down because the foundation that's existed so far to fund health insurance disappears in front of our eyes. We talk and listen to stories about how we go on gross earnings now, so we're gonna stop employers from hiding part of the payout, so when we stop them and when it's all public, then every fund, every institution, is going to get as much as he gets under the law. But from where? From where? They have nothing to pay for water, electricity. They have nothing to get raw materials from. They don't have the money to pay off the profits, and then we say, well, you don't have to pay off the profits, but if you don't pay off your contributions in a month, we're gonna shut down your company. And that is why we have a serious analysis of the state of health, a team before the minister warned us in two or three public television shows, like all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we are facing extremely difficult days. A team before the minister publicly said he had a problem with the DOS lobby, which invalidates some of his basic understandings. For example, whether Chinese drugs are working or not. For the past two years, I've read constantly in the so-called so-called. independent media and listened to your television stories about the government of the Republic of Serbia poisoning citizens by importing Chinese drugs. So they even said that these are drugs for small people, one foot and a half, one foot and a half, and we have two meters, one foot and a half, we have 100 kilos, so they're not doses that are even adjusted, so it's for the yellow race, it's not for the whites at all, so it's untested, so turn-turn. And now we find out from the minister, who in that part of the public delusion exposes, that they are, in fact, the world's largest producers of raw materials and that all the world's producers are supplied with their raw materials, and whoever can make the raw materials for the cure can then build components and make the cure. Now, that's the story we're expecting at the National Assembly speaker. Not the story of the budget, not the story of the finances, of the money. This law is just a little different from point 14. It's the same number of members, the same description, the same sanctions, the same requirements, the same basics, everything is the same, only the law is called differently because it goes to another account. But it's all the same. These are the laws stemming from the budget and from one understanding of the government of the Republic of Serbia to move on to gross earnings. We could keep quiet under that law, because we talked about this kind of law for a day and a half at the 14th point of the agenda, but we wanted to have real, serious discussions in this assembly once, that we didn't have to break the Rules of Procedure to discuss health. It could be said that we now have a cause. Here's the Health Insurance Act, and I'm gonna go out and tell you how much the drugs cost for an old lady who's healthy and who doesn't drink them anymore. Let me guess how much an old man's drugs are costing him who's sick and what drugs the state is offering him for free can't find anywhere but across the street to buy them. I'd like to have such a discussion. This is a debate that will lead us back to conflict. We will jump out of the agenda, trying to turn the subject on what is important, but we certainly will not succeed because we have an agile vice president of the Assembly who will cut down opposition MPs and allow DOS MPs to say whatever they want and wait for a reaction to their stories to warn opposition MPs. This is where the D.O.S. MP came out and told all the predecessors, who before he said they were the image of insolence, of immorality. It was no insult to you to the messengers who spoke before him, but when one MP came out and said that it also applied to the minister who spoke directly before him, you warned that messenger. These are the arches, these are the criteria for which you share people in this room, and then you expect the debate to run peacefully, in harmony, without any arguments, as amongst the gentlemen. Well, we're gentlemen too, which we won't let you argue like that, and so are you gentlemen, which you'd like the debate to run like that. The only question is who is in power, who is in opposition. I recognize among you DOS all those in the opposition, who were worse than we are now in opposition. What's the difference? There are many new ones, there are you who don't deserve to be here, fair enough to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6396	How about you get back on the subject, Mr. Nikolic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6397	When I figure that out, to get back on the subject, I'm going back on the subject, but this is also a theme, my dear lady, I've been very cultural, as I've always been in my life, until you and some others here start insulting me, from the Assembly Hall, and then I can defend myself. So think of the congregation session as someone who was in opposition, someone who wasn't anywhere, and think of you in the majority as some who will soon be opposition. I don't know if you're all going to be, maybe some new coalitions will be made, but I already see you, half here, who will be in opposition this year. Don't tell me I'm wrong, I know it much better than many of you, I may not know it better than Pal Chandodra, but I know it better than the others. So, for this first announcement, we will be against this law, as we have been against all the laws that have regulated one matter in this way, and I ask Mr. Minister to let the problems he faces, which he is controversially reporting to the public, when he is angered by the leaders, or when he is angry by coalition partners, allow us to allow him, in a congregation debate, to perhaps help him overcome the burden on his back. This is also a burden for the directors of many institutions, who may be setting themselves up beyond his will, who until yesterday did not know where the gates of these institutions were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6398	He has the word National MP, Mr Dragoljub Vojnović, right on the line Because you mentioned him, and second of all, you said, the previous speaker, who's a doctor, who's from Nis, you described him and you misread him. [[Employer Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Why the replica?]] I'm trying so hard to be objective, look at the stenographic notes. Mr Vuksic was warned at the beginning of the fourth minute, warned and warned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6399	Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't a replica, but I had to go out again. Because, please, next time I'm going out here, someone's going to say that I don't know, so I don't often go out, let me, I'm interpreted here in a way that I'm saying that someone's already applying a ceremonial laptop. I know exactly what I said. The scariest thing is, if a doctor becomes part of a lapota ceremony, and I didn't want to explain what a lapo, I hope you all know it, and it doesn't matter, but it's terrible when you get into a situation that you can't help your patient (and who you can help) because of the lack of solidarity you can help him to the extent that you can help him. That's what I'm saying as a doctor and it's not mine to say. My whole family are doctors, four in the house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6400	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6401	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would just like to refer to in the shortest lines to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, and in that sense I will say that the correct finding was made during the performance of my predecessors, which says that, practically, the amendment that is introduced into the existing law, the change of financial nature, and that it is in spirit with, above all, those tax changes and changes relating to the transition, with the principle of net wages on the principle of gross earnings. I think it's very important to underline Article 9. The proposal for this law, which establishes the obligations of the employer, is seriously sanctioned, and thus protects the rights of health insurance companies. It's true that the state of our health is bad. I think citizens know that a debt of two billion marks can't be made in 100 days by the new government. I think it's clear to the citizens that drug production can't be raised in 100 days, if it has failed and decreased for 10 years. Therefore, I would like to focus this debate on, above all, underlining the rights of health insurance companies, in the area in which they have been formally and so far, but have not, in addition to formal guarantees, been implemented. So, what it is -- it is a large number of our fellow citizens who, through obtaining their own income, earning a certain profit, gaining and formally entitled to health insurance, which, on the other hand, is not concrete, since the employer did not have the means, or did not want to pay the contributions he was obliged to pay and thus provide health insurance. This has led us to a catastrophic situation. This, in practice, left the Republic Health Insurance Office with no resources, it forced the Ministry of Health to, with the needs of $200, as it was said, 10 years ago, per capita, down to $30, and to provide equal quality healthcare, because the disease 10 years ago and the disease today, by itself, is neither different, nor can it be different, nor were the needs of patients 10 years ago less, or greater, compared to those today. It's just that our ability to meet patients has been diminished, and on that side he's right, the doctor who spoke before me and who talked about the situations in which healthcare workers are today. It's no secret to say that a doctor who receives a patient faces facts that talk about empty hospital pharmacies and that often happens to you that a doctor sends a relative for some medicine, for a bandage. Three or four years ago, doctors sent patients for cotton, for anaesthesia, to the dentist. These are the facts that talk about the degree of health care, which our citizens enjoy at this time, and therefore this is the first of a series of reforms to be implemented in the area of health insurance, and this is not a final word we have said on this issue, but is simply one alignment with those changes that preceded this bill and which primarily concern the transition from net to gross. I'd like to refer you to these bases and tell you that I think we've talked enough about it in terms of pension and disability insurance, because it's practically the same basics, and that it's the same system of establishing these bases, and that therefore I don't think it would be right to engage in a debate that in itself would be a replica of the debate at the time. So these are the gross bases, they contain everything, all the profits that the worker makes, whether it's about net profit, regression, warm meal, field work fees, taxes, which is also very important. So, first of all, this is one concrete measure of our first effort to balance social skills and social needs. This will, of course, be expanded by rationalization in the field of health insurance and we must talk about it, and of course, by making a more careful available means of health insurance, which has certainly not been the case so far. So I urge you to adopt these changes and, certainly, do not interpret this as anything we had to say in the field of health insurance. On the contrary, we have a lot of work to do, and in this business we will be very serious. We'll solve a number of problems, the problems of the pharmaceutical industry, solve problems that have arisen as a result of definitely different relationships in society, and of course, we'll have to solve the problems that have arisen after the irrational and often illegal spending of health insurance, and what's a lot of that said about, and what can we talk about when the final budget bill is found on the agenda in 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6402	The People's MP Predrag Mijailovic has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6403	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will support this health care law and vote for it. This law provides financial resources for the financing of health care. The financial assets are the first and basic condition that the insurance company can exercise its rights if it is sick to be treated, if it is healthy to act preventively so as not to get sick. Then, health care employees get decent salaries, if that's possible. We know that in health care in all spheres the situation is catastrophic. I'm going to start with a material sphere that, no matter how much it seems irrelevant to anyone, is one of the most important spheres, because without money, there's no progress, no purchase of equipment, etc. So in the field of diagnostics, prevention and treatment. In short, I'm going to go over all these catastrophic health conditions. In the material sphere, it is known that health care for about two billion German marks is in the deficit. Unfortunately, those two billion marks have crossed the health fund for the last two or three years. They weren't used for health care, they weren't used for equipment, and if it were all used in health care, we today, gentlemen of the people's MPs and those who watch, would be at the top of the world scale by paid staff, by equipment and so forth. That money's gone, you know, for apartments, for all kinds of malfeasances, and besides, it doesn't matter to me, as a doctor, and I'm not going into it. All I know is they didn't come to health care. If they had come, today would have been so much better, and I don't think they'd be talking in health about a catastrophic state. I'll move on to the diagnostics sphere. In the field of diagnostics, there is no such thing as, gentlemen, MPs, in current modern medicine, no real diagnostics without equipment. Our equipment's out of date or out of date. One more thing, gentlemen of the people, you must know; in the field of diagnostics, the opera's getting older than the car or some modern appliances. The machines if they were bought three years ago, they're already old today. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, we know, everyone who works in health care, without good equipment, without diagnostics, has no therapy. It's all further improvisation. Then, if this law is adopted and I think it should be adopted, it will partially improve it, and it will provide a part of the financial means for equipment, while at the same time providing means for possible prevention. Let's begin the Members of the People's Parliament, with the prevention we've stopped for the last two three years. The previous government destroyed prevention, thus destroying health rationalization. So, the savings that can be made in health care, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, can only be done through prevention. I'll tell you one of the most developed countries in the world, and that's Japan, where it was the most common stomach cancer. They successfully diagnosed stomach and sieve cancer with preventative pathways, i.e. 99%. in the early stages, when the surgery is done, and the man is healed. On the contrary, 95% of us have inoperable cancers and for each of us, for 5 or 6 patients to be given therapy, we give 5.6 more than we would give for one machine and carry out prevention. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll give you another example from our country. We were in Uzic starting to prevent colon cancer. Only made 6,805 cases to find 56 precancerosis cases, of which 72 had already been cancerized. We cured those people. I'll tell you that the cost of treating only 10 inoperable colon tumors is enough to buy a machine and pay with 10 men who are humanised to do so, even at the world level. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've stopped working with that, because the appliances are simply out of service. Imagine one facility or Užički region, where 700,000 people asked for help, and you don't have the right ultrasound, not to speak, gentlemen Members of Parliament, onward. These two examples are sufficient to identify the situation of the previous system of health. If the Fund had given only a fraction of those two billion marks, they'd be much better today. I'll tell you another example, but since I remembered, around the apartments. Imagine that the Užic region doesn't have a pathohistologist, let's do a pathological examination. What that means, which is what surgeons and doctors know, when a patient opens up and accidentally comes across a suspicious change, right in the course of five or ten minutes we can determine, see if we need to work radically or not to work radically. Why don't we have it? We don't have to pay to buy a 50-square apartment, gentlemen Members of Parliament. We don't have the microscope we have, but it's obsolete. Let's not go any further. That's why I'm going to support this health care bill, because it's only the first step, gentlemen Members of Parliament, to move this from the dead spot. This law, as we already know, provides salaries for healthcare workers. I'll tell you that these salaries are very bad. Let's say, let's say that the doctor of general practice has a salary of 180 German marks. That's the man who had to study for 18 years. After that, he couldn't get his coat to put on right away and say, "I can work on my own." No, I don't. He has to go through a year of internships and another year-- two to be a second, and then he just starts working, because that's what it says about the seriousness of the job. A specialist doctor, at least 22 years old and has 250 German marks in dinars. Doctor specialist, magistrate, doctor of science cannot have a higher salary of 300 to 350 marks, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Besides, people do. A large number of our experts have gone abroad. Are we such a rich country, who drove them away? The previous system. Are we so rich a country that man, to be a specialist, must at least be given from 250,000 to 300,000 marks and delivered immediately abroad. That's what we did, and we didn't buy apartments for those people or at least equipment. Then, working conditions in health institutions are catastrophic and very bad. Let's take our patient's food, if there's a facility where there's 15 diets, we only have one diet. So family must bring. As for working conditions for those who work in health care, imagine when you come into direct contact with diseases and you have nothing to protect yourself with. You have the right to expose yourself, and whoever gives the same healthcare worker the right to carry the disease to his children, to his loved ones. That's what we have to do. Let's say one more thing, first of all, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, depending on whether we help a sick man at a given time or not. Here's a concrete example. Let's take it when we have clinical death in the coronary unit, fibrillation, if our defibrillator is faulty, there's nothing we can do about it. Time only runs from three to five minutes, if we help him, everything's fine, if we don't help, it won't be okay. In my practice, I know what that means, because I didn't call the Coronary Unit once. If we're lucky it's the right thing to do, and we're lucky to have drugs to support our intervention. So, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous system has brought us here where we are, but we have to try to overcome it now, we know it's hard and it won't be possible in a day or two, but hopefully in two, three, we'll at least get through it again, because it's huge money. We need to find at least two million marks that things would start, and that are spent for a whole other purpose, not for the purpose to which it is necessary. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the previous example, we need to know that each of us can come into a situation that in the coronary unit, was rich, was poor, was opposition or position. (President: Time. I'm sorry, just for a moment, because I still think the subject is quite serious. I'll be done soon. It depends on the camera and the frame whether it can help or not. So, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to think while we're healthy, we need to know that we need medication, because the cure is the only and last friend of the sick man. To conclude: this catastrophic state of health cannot be accused of the current government, surely. You know who led to this. It cannot be asked of this government overnight, but it can be asked of this government, the minister and the entire Serbian nation, since this is a national issue, as it is a matter of the health of children, old and young, to start solving these problems. I therefore welcome the Ministry and Government's decision to enter into the root reforms of health, because only with the root reforms of health care can we do something better and move forward, patiently, slowly, but surely, and that every dinar that goes into health must be known to be given to health care. (President: Please finish. I urge you once again to vote, just so you don't get a chance to have one wish - just that you're healthy. Thank you. I'm sorry for the overstep.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6404	The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6405	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out this: The Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the legislator of this bill, lays down the principle of the basis for calculating contributions to compulsory health insurance, starting from the degree of established professional training of workers - insurance workers. The range of basics on which a contribution to health insurance will be calculated ranges from 3,033 to 12,724 dinars. In fact, the bill shows that there are large basics to be accounted for and to pay contributions to health insurance. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that this principle, which introduces gross earnings, which includes a warm meal, a regress, a field supplement, night work, working on days of national holidays and working longer than full-time, will not be able to implement in practice and due to the well-known economic power of our health insurance debtors. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, MPs have an obligation for sick people to go to the hospital to take everything but an iron bed to the hospital. We must not allow food in prisons to be better for prisoners than for patients in hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to point out that many will not be able to pay workers a profit if this law is passed, because the priority will be to pay contributions to health insurance. What's going to happen in practice? In practice, many employers, especially the private sector, will be forced to fire employees and will reduce them to a minimum, and with a number of workers will conclude work contracts, and will enter into that contract a smaller amount and will pay them a larger amount. In this way, there will be no state in opportunity, no government, to secure, nor will there be enough control over this area. That is why I propose not to adopt this law, precisely because of the fact that gross earnings and basics are too high and I think there is reason for the proposer to consider and withdraw the proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6406	The word has been given by the MP Nebojsa Jovic, and then by the MP of the people, Živodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6407	Dear President, honourable MPs, it is indeed true that the state of health is alarming. The government needs to do everything possible to improve this situation. In this regard, I welcome that during 2001 reforms in the field of health insurance, the health system, with the aim of bringing the level of public spending into line with the potential for economic development, with a view to real resources for health financing. I think that's the core of the whole truth. I think the government needs to find opportunities to develop the economy in the next period. If there is no development of the economy, we can change the gross bases, but this will not lead to an improvement in the health budget, as there will be no increase in funds for other users of the budget. I don't think the gross system, which is being introduced, will be the basis for an increase in health insurance, because if you've said that by the 30th of the month, no earnings are paid, it comes to the fact that the competent payment service informs the tax authority in the place where the taxpayer didn't charge taxes and contributions. I think you can charge in one month, but you won't do it either, because that'll probably get the giro-account blockade, the companies will stop working. Like I said, if there's no economy, then there won't be a chance to collect health insurance. It's all going to the health insurance burden. Be assured, if it's true, I apologize, so I read in the paper, the newspaper is yours and they write so, that the real sources won't be in health if you introduce a review and a prescription of 20 dinars, that the ultrasound is paid from 50 to 80 dinars, that the scanner costs 200 to 300 dinars, a magnetic resonance of 500 to 600 dinars, to be a percentage of participation around dental costs and to eliminate free transportation of sanity. I think this last item -- the elimination of free transportation by sanity, is really rigorous for a health insurance company, especially for a man who's a kidney patient and who needs dialysis. How will he and what will he pay for it? Should he, if his health has been destroyed, still think about how to go and extend his life another day? Now I have to do a parallel between the Transport Tax Act and what I say again, it says in the paper, if it's not true, I apologize, if you're thinking about these measures, then let this be a reason to think about whether that's the way it's supposed to be. It is said that 50% should be included for orthopaedic aid when used. We, by adopting the Transport Tax Act, have introduced sales tax on orthopedic aids. I have proposed to the amendment that orthopedically aided the release of sales taxes, because I thought at the time, and now I think, that someone who was orthopedically aided in life and work, that it was fine enough for him and that he should not be burdened with sales taxes. Now, when buying an orthopaedic aid, it's supposed to be participating 50% of the amount of aid. You're introducing a gross system as a way of calculating fiscal obligations, and I welcome that. However, I think that the gross basis in these conditions is great and that, in this sense, the amendments proposed by some MPs to the opposition may have to be accepted, in order to reduce this gross base. Considering that in all previous laws, which have been adopted, such a gross basis has been adopted, then my appeal for the reduction of that gross foundation will probably not be accepted. You say you're introducing gross earnings, regress, a warm meal and a field supplement, I mean, maybe it's more illusory to repeat that, but it's my right to say that it shouldn't have entered the gross base. What you're saying is that avoiding the payment of health insurance contributions to hand-to-hand payments, bonuses, or groceries, I also reminded the minister of the work that the law of 1 January 1996 had the obligation to pay the prescribed taxes and contributions. So it was an obligation to pay for health insurance. In the old way of calculating salary contributions, there were two gross bases that you say were found artificially. I have to say that these gross foundations existed precisely because of the redundancy of the economy. One gross basis existed for the collection of personal income tax, municipal fees and solid housing building, and this is now united in the fund for earnings and chambers of commerce, while the real gross base was the one on which the tax is calculated, i.e. the contribution for pension, health and unemployment insurance. As the minister said, since 1 January 1999, the government has laid the lowest bases on which taxes and contributions were paid, and now they are valid, but I think that this lowest basis that is regulated according to the degree of professional preparation is really problematic and that something needs to be done in that sense. You say the revenues will be better, I say, I don't want my forecast to be realized in the interest of health and all of us because we need it, but I think this way, with this bill by 30 a month to block a jury account and with these bases, I think the inflow of funds in health institutions will be smaller. There is no Mr. Ceda, I will have to say, on Wednesday or Thursday, an old stenogram to determine when he said so, he said that when the payment service informs the tax authority's competent authority that someone who has not paid the profits, he is obliged to pay taxes and contributions, and Mr. Jovanovic said that the tax authority can agree with the economic operator to pay those commitments within three months. Knowing the law, the tax authority is not in charge of delaying the payment of contributions and taxes, for which is the government of Serbia, which regulates and determines who can be reprogrammed, for which period, under which conditions. So I don't think that's what's going on, because the public knows that the tax authority has the powers it's had before. I think the bottom line is, I'm fighting for health care to come into one better condition because we all depend on that health care, someone smaller, and someone in greater scope, but I don't think we're really going to get into a situation where our health fund is richer than it is so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6408	The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Živodarka Dacin, and after it Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6409	Dear President, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, above all as a man who has worked in health care for 24 years, I am absolutely in favour of the respect of all the regulations that will lead to the completion now and how the empty medical registers. This proposal of the Health Insurance Act represents only one part of the content of the Labour Relations Act and practically its only change is that it moves to the accounting of gross income, where taxes will be determined for both health care in the budget fund and from warm meals, from regressions and all other twelves. Of course, it expands some basis and certainly should expect the health register to be slowly, but it certainly fills. However, there is one great - but. I don't think there would probably be so many discussions here, or amendments, if we had created one basic prerequisite, which is, above all, employment and growth in business, as well as the automatic raising of the standards of all employees and in the economy, and of course, in social activity, especially as health is financed by the budget, as it has been so far. When we improve the standard of each employee, we know that all countries are mostly financed in the area of health in this way, no one would talk about whether it's too big or little to give either to separate taxes on paying the state what is needed, or whether they can allow to fill out the health register. However, I must say that there are also patients, and we healthcare professionals are very much expecting and we expected from the changes and transformations announced during this period. I think that really health care is primarily based on all the problems it carries with it and that we should have discussed health care much earlier, I would say before all these tax packages. When we observe this law, there is an observation with two aspects. One is that he's very interested in patients, and on the other hand we're very interested, and all of us are health employees. When I say about patients, I don't want to lamentate, but it's true and the fact that the condition is what it is, that still, regardless of what has already been announced in this government in the last few weeks, until the end of the week, there will be drugs in the pharmacy, they're still gone. The only ones that can be obtained in private pharmacies, and the increase in prices that I think factories only use every crisis, and this current one where the health care found it did not increase 82%, perhaps on average, but some drugs were increased by 500 times the price. If we know it's normal and if every rule has exceptions, that category belongs most to our pensioners, if we know what their average pension is, provided that at least five medicines are on average, and I personally know those who drink 12 different things a day, that they can have a very good life with them, this way they are certainly disabled because of a lack of financial resources. Indeed, first of all, as a man, I am always optimistic and I want to believe in the undeniable goodwill and aspirations of this government to find ways to solve health problems slowly. The second aspect, I think that the material status of health employees is like that we saw from the Health Insurance Act that here a very important place has taken place, so in this way what I've been up to here a couple of times, that very low earnings in health care could be improved. When, as well as how, I don't know. I'm afraid our resolute minister has really got the most sensitive subject under his resor, the hottest potato, I have to say, because there are all dissatisfied, and patients, and health workers and everyone really expects a miracle, and we know that miracles don't happen so easily. I'm afraid he's not just coming back as a boomerang fact that, say, the minister's gross salary won't be able to pay us health care workers a warm meal or a regress. We know, and that's true, that during this year, health workers, when paid without tax, only 200 dinars in the name of the regress, while certain working organizations, normally, managed to pay off and thus eskicipate this gross tax payment and increase the financial register in health. There's one more thing I'd like to say, I know it's going to be adopted that way, and I really just want to give some of my personal sightings, which is that, in Article 10, the prescribed criminal provisions for an employer amounting to 10,000 to 200,000 dinars for a violation. The same article adds paragraph 4 to which employers are prescribed, and the possibility of banning the performance of 30 to 90 days. Is this a little too harsh again? I'm sure and I'm not going to talk here about the threat that these same problems are making some home of health or hospital, because that's guaranteed by our minister and this government, but I think it's a much more sensitive issue for all those in the field of health care that deals with private practice. Although we have been saying that there is a surplus of health employees, especially when it comes to all these duties that need to be prepared, and if we see that in the last few years there has really been private practice, that many pharmacies, dental offices, health care offices have been opened, that each of them has been employed by at least three people, and that as such they have been removed from the burdens of the health register and the state budget, I continue to argue that there are no extra employees. We also know that there are mainly all the investments and all the profits that are actually gained by doing private practice in new funds, in the purchase of medicines, in the purchase of equipment, etc. The question is whether each office itself will be able to exist for itself or be forced to close because it will not have the opportunity to pay for all these charges. It's very difficult, at least personally, although I don't have private practice, I'm not saying it from some experience, but I know from communication with people, it's very difficult, if you close down your private practice for 90 days, get your strengths together, not mentally, but financially, and start again where you care, and without consequences. I believe that the closure of any private practice in the field of health would be catastrophic, that a number of new problems would likely arise in the field of health workers, and that is why I simply expect that there may be some exception that, in the case of these social laws, was foreseen in the announcement of ministers when previous agendas were. However, however, we will still discuss this law today in principle, listen to the relevant amendments, but, as well as any law, and this last word will be given to just those who are most interested in the welfare of this law, which are primarily patients and all of us employees in health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6410	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6411	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's 10 to two again, not to mention 5 to 12, to speak again and point to those problems that we've raised so far in the debate, starting with the law on labour and employment, then amending the law on pension and disability insurance and amending the health care law and on non-applicable basis for the 1 June accounting. Last time, I suggested that the Committee on Budgets and Finance and representatives of all ministries mentioned here examine these bases once again and establish the right sizes in relation to what was and in the way in which, as of 1 June, the lowest basis for calculating gross, or net earnings should be brought to life. Secondly, I think that the amendments to these legal rules, all three of these laws are not very much related to improving the situation in either of these areas. They are mainly related to the harmonisation of labour legislation in order to implement the law that is yet to come within a month, and above all I am referring here to the privatisation law. I also think that the state of health at this point is truly catastrophic and much worse than it was eight months ago, and it is extremely inappropriate and cynical to pay health workers 200 dinars of regression for the annual vacation per month. I think it's more humane to pay the entire regress for an annual vacation at this point and to improve their at least a little material position. Next, again, certain categories are being chased and in these arguments, and indeed Mr. Minister certainly did not refer to these categories of accounting and accounting bases, and I also think that the fact that Mrs. Minister last time, when we discussed the pension insurance law, did not provide us with data on the rates of contributions for pension and disability insurance, and the following day a rate was set in the paper where at 31% the rate of 19.6% was proposed, and of which 9.8% on the employer's burden, and 9.8% on the burden of gross personal income of workers, which means that the principle of accounting and payment of contributions for pension and disability insurance has not changed anything compared to what was. Gross personal income, which goes to the employer's burden and total gross personal income, that's what's been on the employer's burden so far. I would also like to say that there is also an explanation -- the proposed amendments and additions to the law also retains the principle of the lowest basis for calculating and paying contributions to compulsory health insurance according to the degree of professional preparation. And this solution proved to be in the previous period from the day of 1 January 1999 to good results, i.e. a better financial effect than the legal solution that was in place until then. In fact, in this way, it is further impossible for one number of employers to pay the employee reduced earnings, while another part of the profits is paid off of legal flows, avoiding tax and contribution payments, as well as other fiscal burdens on earnings. This is compared to the existing solution, and now it is proposed that the reason for including other personal incomes in gross earnings, on which contributions and taxes are calculated and paid, lies in the fact that a large number of employers have resorted to other personal incomes, regresses, a warm meal, at the expense of profit payments. Also, one is the fact that in this system it moves on to the gross principle of profit accounting. So again gross principle, net principle, gross profit, net profit, lowest base. For the purposes of accounting under that net principle, it constitutes a basis for the calculation and payment of contributions to health insurance for insurance undertakings. On the other hand, at the beginning it says - the basic reasons and directions in the proposed changes and additions of the Health Insurance Act at this point are to coordinate the financing of health insurance with changes in the fiscal profit treatment, while keeping the current fiscal burden, which is impossible, until the rate of fiscal burden is known, with the full affirmation of the principle of gross earnings as the basis for the calculation of all fiscal taxes on earnings: taxes, contributions, taxes. For me, it's vague and illogical, net principle, gross profit. I really propose that since all three ministers are authorised to sit together and resolve this issue, considering that the minister in charge of health affairs, the minister in charge of labour affairs and the minister in charge of social affairs agree on how to calculate and pay contributions, as well as the content of the form. And every fund specifically publishes the lowest bases and harmonizes them with each of these. Well, isn't it logical, if it's the same rule that counts for profit, because they apply the same basics to all three funds, to publish one base, not to have three same basics in three different funds. Also, these basics that are proposed here, the lowest bases, will be harmonised for the growth of net personal incomes in the February-April period, which means that already through the manual can be regulated the lowest basis that is laid down by this law and prescribed. In Article 1(3) of the basic Regulation, which is used for the calculation and payment of the contribution, if the earnings or part of the earnings are paid by a delay of at least six months, it shall constitute a profit or a proportion of the outstanding earnings belonging to the employee in accordance with the law and collective agreement on the date of payment of the contribution. If someone hasn't paid six months' salary, or at an old reckoning, I don't think there's really any way to regulate this issue at this point. And another question has been raised, which is that if personal income is not paid in the current month for the previous month, what comes next. I think what we talked about last time about blocking the giro accounts, bankruptcy and so forth, is one preparation for the adoption of the law on privatisation and its action. Finally, in the context of the topic, I have to say that we in Valjevo have done a lot, at least in improving the health care facilities, given that for 25 years, a self-help to build a surgical block that has long been completed, for the reconstruction of the old hospital building, and also the funds from the earthquakes when the old facility of the Valjev hospital is damaged, with over 2,200 m2, with more than 22 million funds invested. I would like to ask one question -- how will further regulate the issue of self-delivery for the reconstruction of the old building of the Valjev hospital, given that the decision to pay for this self-income -- is the net personal income of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6412	Dear People's MPs, we continue at 3:30. The first speaker is MP Zoran Radovanovic. [[After a break.]] Gentlemen, please let us determine if we have a quorum to work with. I'm guessing we have a quorum to continue the session. The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6414	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, the definition of the World Health Organization says that health is not only the root of the disease, but the state of total mental, physical and social security or social well-being. If they, the world experts who wrote this definition, knew about our Minister Djelic's genius package of tax laws, would certainly have been thrown out of the definition of this category - social well-being. Otherwise, tax medicines, since there are both legal medicines and medical medicines that you offer to this people, according to the prescription of the IMF, the World Bank and other houses, which care about small peoples, will surely ruin these people's health until the end. Otherwise, as far as the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act is concerned, I have to notice a few things -- while you were in opposition, you, as well as anything else, and this law of ours has been most challenged, denied, mocked. If you look a little bit better, there are only a few amendments in this bill that show that our law was first and foremost good. Otherwise, DOS wouldn't have been DOS if it hadn't changed those little changes instead of for the better, changed worse. There's a lot of talk here about basics, which are really extremely high, unsuitable for the economic moment of our country. There's been a lot of talk about gross and net wages, and I think a good part of DOS MPs today doesn't know what gross and what net pay is. However, I am concerned by this member of the law where, apart from the existence of criminal provisions in terms of fines, there is also the attitude where the employer can be imprisoned, not him, but the firm for 30 and 90 days. Does this mean that if the Clinical Centre in Nis, or the House of Health in Nis, or the Institute of Niska Banja will not pay these taxes and contributions, they will be closed for 30 days, or 90 days, and what will they do with healthcare workers in that case? The reasons for the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act have highlighted the basic reasons, and this - the harmonisation with the principle of gross earnings, the correction of the rate, more specifically, the reduction of the health insurance contribution rate, but for me the most important reason is the one that speaks of the introduction of a single basis for paying taxes and contributions, not as the government explained, because of the simplification, but primarily because of the following - the Transport Tax Act, which is the basis for all other laws, for the first time, and that people in Serbia must know, for the first time in Serbia's history, the medicines have been taxed. For example, medicines in Montenegro have not been taxed, so medicines, medical supplies and orthopaedic aids. Also in England, Ireland, Poland, Hungary, all these things are not taxed. In some other countries of Europe, such as France, the Netherlands, Germany, the tax rate is 5 to 10%. Why am I talking about the drug tax and this bill, now, my dear colleagues, to explain - I'm talking about everything that all health institutions, hospitals, clinics and homes of health, medicines, medical supplies and orthopedic aids get at a higher price of 20%. This will, however, make the health institution's difficult position even worse and, by automation, will lead to a growth in the contribution rate, which has led to health insurance or the coverage of these costs from the budget. When we warned from this pay phone that the whole package of tax laws was extremely bad, specifically good, but for some other economy and another moment of this country, we indicated that they would cause a chain reaction, that the specific financial problems in health would deepen even further, that the tensions in healthcare would increase even more, then you, dear colleagues from DOS, didn't have hearing. You did not accept amendments from the opposition MPs, although we knew that by having an absolute majority, these laws would be passed, our amendments were aimed at correction. Three headlines from "The Voice of the Public", 9.5 this year, speak for themselves, although behind them is a group of experts, economic experts, who gave an assessment of your tax reform. The first is: "Accise beyond Europe", the second is "Name of the cure", and the third title is "Budget or Hunger". It will be remembered that, as of 1 April 2001, because of your taxes which were primarily caused by these abnormally high bases in this bill, Serbia has settled in Europe with the highest rate of taxation of medicines and food. You raised the price of drugs by 130% before the new year, and yet another increase after the new year, which you managed to even the price with in five major European countries, but to remind you, our standard is not the same. What all Serbian citizens already know, and that is that out of all those Western promises of yours we've received, it looks like only one thing, God forbid someone gets sick, because who's going to pay for the treatment. So I'm going to finish one short simulation, I'm going to give it, I've got a little more time: a man gets sick, he normally wants to change, he wants to get better. The same man goes to the hospital and there's a participation waiting for him, the drugs that are expensive, the medications he has or isn't there, he's got Chinese drugs waiting for him who are healthy, the hour is poisonous. What's he gonna do? Or he's waiting for healthcare professionals who don't receive what they pay. Then he, like any reconvalescence, goes home and this reconvalescence when he comes home has to buy some basic assets. He only needs bread and milk for 1,100 dinars per month to buy newspapers for a month, one newspaper, he needs 450 dinars, and he has to buy newspapers, because he's got expensive electricity, he's got electricity, so he can't watch TV, he's got gas. He's got more fuel, so the kids can't go around him. All in all, everything is more expensive, so you yourself will see in the next election what will wait for you. By the way, one simple question, when will the six billion arrive? People ask me on the street, so let me just tell them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6415	The word has a health minister, Mr. Obren Joksimovic, and after that, MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6416	It's the right water. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought about the amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act didn't take so much to say, that not all the questions that started to open up in this assembly should be opened. I don't think that's good, but, uh, since we've opened up some questions, it requires a more extensive design that a lot of people here won't like. What we inherited, inherited by the current power from the previous government, in the international dictionary, in the dictionary of international terms and terms, is said to be a disaster. It can also be said in Serbian as a general failure or a general collapse, but the fact is that it is. There was almost nothing left of health care except sick people. The previous government mainly treated itself, treated the sick as well, but it did not prevent diseases, which are being done everywhere in the world, so we also have to deal mainly with the treatment of the sick instead of prevention. The case works, and that's how human policy was conducted, on one general practice doctor in Serbia you have six specialists' doctors. When you look at the relationship of specialists: specialist, specialist from the preventive branch of medicine and so on. The elite or curent branches of surgical medicine, then that relationship is catastrophic, then it's 15 to 1, even urbanally larger. So we're completely lost. Our funds are empty. The funds, ladies and gentlemen, were not spent by current ministers and the current Prime Minister, but spent the previous authorities. They spent them on unreasonable and irrational policies in all fields. First of all, it wasn't about where it was, what and how much it was spent. From 1946 to today, the health ministry had no medical service at all. Do you know why? Because everyone who wanted to be supplying it was doing it and taking sick percentages. All over the world, the percentages that are allocated to medical care for commissions range from 0.5%, 1%, 2% to 5%, and we have 100%, 150%, 300%, and more. The percentages ate Serbian health care. You're talking about healthcare criminalisation, of course there's criminalization in health care, but that's not what health workers and paramedical workers were doing, but those who had power, who built, built, bought equipment, went to expensive seminars, which were just formal seminars, and none of the education there was seen. They spent money. Now we're talking about criminalization, health care. Of course, there's nothing. I've got a gentleman who bought me an expensive machine for three million marks, who usually costs a million and asks me coldly, who's gonna pay for it. And I ask you, who in his party allowed him to buy a three-times more expensive machine than it costs, did the current health minister or perhaps the current prime minister allow it? Did he ask anyone when he was doing it? How could it even happen that in the same health organization you have 15 different appliances from 15 different manufacturers? Now you can't even do a service. How to do a service when you have all different manufacturers. It needs a service for each product in particular. You want me to remind you how you trained in personnel and where? What were you doing with them? You want me to tell you how you bought construction material? There are countless examples of abuses that will not be dealt with by the health minister and the health ministry, but will be dealt with by the services that are responsible. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Health shortages are a product of irrational consumption, and you've spent everything and now we have no way of, we have nothing, the people need to know that we have nothing to buy the drugs for. By the way, you've made a bloody mess with the biggest drug factory in this country. You, gentlemen, when you needed Milan Panic to sell Galenika to him by which, I don't know, I don't know, cheap money. A factory that costs more than a billion dollars, you were going to sell for 220. Luckily, he didn't give you that much, so now he's got to get it back. If you want the Minister of Health to blame, is it my fault that you forced us into debt (from the O.R.: Yes. ). I agree to be guilty, I agree, of course, to be guilty, and you've been buying drugs in China. I agree to be guilty and for buying drugs in China.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6417	Please let the minister speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6418	You bought drugs in China, ladies and gentlemen, because you picked up high percentages there, because the drugs there are cheap, and you sold them expensive here and you made a huge difference that you put in your pockets. It's the essence of the Chinese package. You didn't buy them there as much as they were worth, which is poisonous, but because you took high percentages for it. Now someone else needs to be your fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6419	Please listen to Mr. Secretary. It's not pleasant, but it's useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6420	Mr. Nikolic asked for the Chinese package, the answer is decadent and clear, you made huge profits, and therefore you went in two strokes and made a Chinese arrangement. It's a $18 million package, someone's got a lot of money on it. Do you want someone else to be responsible for that now? We will. It can't be, ladies and gentlemen, it can't be. Look, you've made the privileged in health care, and now you're talking and complaining about how the health minister announced participation. Of course I've announced participation, because health care will die if it doesn't intervene urgently. He has to intervene urgently to keep the health care alive. The law that was proposed is not to make you laugh, Mr. Nikolic, but suggested that we get as much money and put it in the fund, and from there we can buy basic drugs. From participation, Mr. Nikolic, those patients who have been excluded from participation so far will be excluded. So, they won't pay for pregnant women, they won't pay for children, they won't pay for diabetics, they won't pay for kidney patients, they won't pay for the most vulnerable categories of the population. You gentlemen, you're gonna pay, you're gonna have to pay, not just for healthcare, you're gonna pay for a lot more. That's why I'm warning you, I beg you to understand, that we make a fine statement of this law that is not good. [[Applause]] A colleague of mine, I think he's a colleague of mine, and an MP for the SPS, said here that the best evidence is that this law is good, that we're fixing it now. He's not my dear colleague, that law is no good. We fix that law to last, because we're legalists, so we respect the worst laws, unlike you who made laws and didn't respect them. You did what you wanted. So, we'll respect that law until we bring in another one. Other laws on health care, health care, health insurance and medical and pharmaceutical chambers have already been made. He's done. We'll put him on public check. There's gonna be a public debate. Everyone will be able to say their word, and then that law will come here before you, and here you will be able to say your word. We'll pass all those laws, if God will. It'll make it easier for us to get into transition, change the health care system and change the whole health care system for the better. With this law and the health care law, which restricts us in everything, we are in no condition to do anything. We can patch it up and patch it up, because there's no other way out at this point. We're going to do our best, and we're going to do our best, and we're going to do our best, and we're going to make a big gourmet for our people. You've driven him under such a small goober, you've brought him into this present situation. The people are unsatisfactory, of course we should be ugly too, they should change ministers, they should change governments until he gets better. But he needs to be responsible and he needs a little bit of suffering for putting up with such a power for so many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6421	Mr. Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6422	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, since the minister of a number of MPs, who have certain health problems, has caused health problems, hastened to elect a minister for this state of affairs, to choose what he will drink, and to calm down a bit. I thought Vladan Batic was the worst minister in the Serbian government. The worst one is this one. The worst minister is the Minister of Health. Mr. Minister, you haven't attended the sessions. You ministers have no custom of respecting this people's congregation, but I'd say you spoke well. It works well, you just sent a message to the Serbian Parliament, you didn't separate us into power and opposition, but you said that we were robbing, that we were taking money, that we were traveling to China to make money there. I don't even know how to go to China, whether through Bulgaria or through Romania. Obren Joksimovic, from the place: What do you feel called? I have to feel called. Mr. Minister, you're all right, I would support any measure of yours if you said Simic went to China and there he took this people five million dollars because he bought this medicine at this price and sold it to the people at this price. When this new government comes after this speaker, it will have the support of the opposition. There's something I don't see in this room that any of us, who in any way participated in power, can feel called. Mr. Minister, this advertisement of yours for the purchase of medicines that domestic producers cannot produce in sufficient quantities, written as at the time when JUL obtained drugs for Serbia, and said, "From the moment the bidders come out, they can take over the material within three days, and after that they can submit an offer within three days, and the Ministry, (means, Minister), reserves the right not to choose the cheapest bidder financially, but to choose the most favourable bidder. "Is that true? Is that what your ad looks like? What is it, Mr. Minister? In three days to report interested, three days to deliver bids from world producers, and then the minister to define what offer is most favourable. It's already been seen, Minister. These are the same ones who led the ministers of old. They're all still sitting in the ministries. It was also at the time of Leposava Milicevic and at the time of what you arrested him and held him in prison, from the Oncological Institute. (President: Time. I'm done. So, I like your speeches. Minister, you don't need a microphone at all. I like your speeches, they're strong, you're loud, you're a lot of guys, I'd just ask you, Mr. Minister, to say in this room -- here, I'm talking to Simo Simic, you stole money from patients who were sick, I'm talking to you, Lazo Lazic, you were buying broken instruments. So, if all of us MPs were to suffer your cry from the pay phone, I wouldn't allow it. If you were yelling at the MPs, tell me who you were yelling at, and if you're used to yelling for no reason, I recommend the drugs from this right hand, there are diazeps, but this is paid for by the ministers, and I shouldn't give it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6423	Mr. Ivkovic, first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6424	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the SPS MPs have absolutely stated the SPS' views on the law on the agenda. I want to say something else -- the minister's office is extremely high. The function of the minister is a function that implies that every moment the citizens of Serbia watch what they do and that the minister of their government says in their country. The minister is a promoter of the area he stands for. The minister has an obligation to speak of the area at least as it is, and always a little better than it is, to set goals and create confidence with Serbian citizens that the consequences in the area are right and do their job correctly. Must have been wrong in the field of health policy earlier. That's right. But, my dear gentlemen, for eight months, some other people have been running the Ministry of Health, for eight months now, someone else has been deciding, not those who were in the Ministry until then. What has happened since then? Serbian citizens like to hear the minister evaluate what it was, but even more are interested and they like to hear what it is today and what it will be tomorrow, to explain why the government with three-and-a-half times the smaller budget has managed to provide and to ensure that health care works to a certain extent, and why is this government, with three-and-a-half times the budget, taking participations and announcing even greater participations? That's what the minister needs to explain and say why it's happening. This is where I came out to defend health care and healthcare workers. I'm a witness to how many times healthcare professionals have reacted and worked with great knowledge, with great security, spotless. This is the country that received 650,000 refugees, no epidemics, no health accidents, because workers worked day and night. If special buses, special emergency teams were to be organised within two hours, both here and in Republika Srpska, to help, people sat and did their job, left their families and worked. I claim that we have leading health experts in many areas, both in Europe and in the world, from colloprothology and beyond. We have extraordinary experts. It's true, we don't have a strong material base, we've been buying a lot of the same stuff in different places, and where we don't need it, and scanners and all these wonders. That's right. But we have what's most important, we have extremely educated and high-quality doctors who at international meetings reach extraordinary references and can always get jobs anywhere in the world. Health care professionals are great workers. They're working under difficult conditions. Let's see the vision, why is it that when the third half of the budget has to be more participatory? Why does one who doesn't receive wages under this law have to give money for health care? For what?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6425	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6426	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's hard for us to behave differently at this point in the agenda than in all previous ones. Serbia may not have had any epidemics, but it had Milovana Bojic, Leposava Milicevic, Tomislav Jankovic, who left behind such consequences that, after a period of recovery, were much longer than the result of any epidemic. There's a doctor among you. Tell me how long the quarantine takes. I'm telling you, there is no quarantine like that that will last as long as the damages left behind in the area of health insurance. We are here representing the 2001 budget, clearly showing that increased resources are intended for education and health care, but none of us has said that these funds are sufficient. That's why participation is needed. Ask patients if they agree to participation or to a closed door and message - go to a private office. It's not just materially desolation of our health, it's professionally demoted, and these are the tragic consequences we face today. Two votes missed Milovan Bojic becoming an academic. It turns out that today, not that there's no basis for being an academic, has already passed no specialization. Ratko Krsmanovic was not on the payroll of the Yugoslav Left, but was on the payroll of the Institute for Cardiovascular Diseases - Dedinje. Today, of course, it has nothing to do with the previous regime, with previous authorities, has nothing to do with those who share bencedine from the pay phones, but open up the offices on the street, so there's a cure. If you haven't been able to do it for 10 years, you're doing it in the future. No one will stop you from doing that. It just seems to me that, as a rule, we can't stay at the level of arguments and facts, but at the level of phrases that are in themselves, maybe, close to someone, but that person certainly wasn't sick or had someone who was sick in her family. [[Applause]] You can't tell those people the stories you're telling today. Our health care is great -- only everything that's left in it is not good, thanks to the 10-year rule of your regime -- thanks to the incredible resistance of these people. She has overcome this moral dimension and the sense of professional ethics that has forced these people to function under such circumstances, but nothing is more. Their patience isn't forever either. So today, when we run a health policy with caution, when we try to spend our health insurance resources rationally, we have to point to problems that are serious and that cannot be solved in themselves. It is not true that the budget is 3.5 times higher and it is not true that we have ever said that the budget will cover all costs that must be covered, among other things, by the implementation of the participatory funds. But they most at risk have much more concern and much more patience and attention by representatives of the authorities in the field of health insurance and health care than was the case with the previous regime. If not, go out and tell the arguments here, tell me immediately how the funds are being spent today by the Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance Fund and how they have been spent so far. Tell me on the basis of which facts can kill those amazing things that speak of Mr. Jankovic, about Mr. Boyic. We wish we could talk to them, but they're not available. One's on the run, the other's in jail. Neither of them deserve to be visited. In any case, make sure we pass this law and that this is not the last thing we had to say in the area of health insurance and health care of our population. This is just the first step, and it is the only incentive of tax reforms that have been introduced in our society, and quite certainly, be assured, that the time ahead will be the time in which you will be able to criticize us, but there will never be a time in which you will be able to reason with the facts that we can present today, describing what you have done in the past 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6427	Tomislav Nikolic, second call He didn't mention you, and he did, for medication? [[Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: He did not, but a replica, misread me]] Here, a colleague asked you to, says she did.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6428	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't mention Bensedin. I mentioned several other medications, but Mr. Jovanovic is well understood in psychopharmacies and anxiety, and I see that he already mentions bensedin. I didn't mention him. I was Serbian Deputy Prime Minister for a year, and in that period three men and one woman addressed me for medical care, which they needed, and was only possible in Belgrade and was only possible in Dedinj, where Milovan Bojic was the director. I'm not a member of JUL, and I have no reason, I haven't been on the payroll of anyone, I have no reason to defend anyone, but it's enough to ask if they can be examined, they've been examined, they've been set up, two have been operated, successfully, thank God, without any compensation and without any doctor, anything for that service. But from what I hear, the situation has changed worse. Now some DOS representatives are putting their relatives there, or maybe that's not true, Mr Jovanovic, even those who have nothing, who have no health problems, are putting two or three months to rest nicely. Is that true or not true? That's one thing. The second thing, the budget from which the health care is maintained, is planned in a year and ends that year. It was 2000 years ago, and in 2001 you were required to provide medical care and to treat the people. We can't listen to stories anymore that you can't treat the people because in 1946 it wasn't properly invested in health care. Whatever state it was, doctors worked, except when they strike, when you talk them into it, individuals. These strikes weren't permanent, so the patients had no reason to complain. The doctors have always worked and the people have always been treated. I return you to only one thing, this material that you could create, for upgrades and these 10 years when sanctions were imposed, no government was able to create. Spread out, show yourselves, with such small possibilities, with a completely blocked state, all governments that existed so far have performed all their functions, and if individuals were thieves, let them go to prison. You, there's a wide field in front of you. You have all the options, businesses are open doors, you come to helpers, investors, strategic partners, your funds are full, the budget is full, donations come from all sides, doctors don't leave hospitals without borders, show now you, how you run health care, the resources you provide, and you distribute. That's all that matters. Yes, we had drug factories in an extremely difficult situation. Now you've approved them, some medications, a collection up to eight times. Are there any drugs on the market that the one who pays for his insurance can get for free? I claim they're gone and I claim there won't be any until you've scattered the thieves... President, please finish. ... and from health care and from the pharmaceutical industry. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6429	The People's MP Dragan Colic has the word, followed by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not disputed that the sphere of health deserves a serious approach, not only because of the announced reforms, but also because of the really bad situation in this important and important area. I am convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia and in this area will not succeed, there will be no reforms in health insurance. An affirmation of gross earnings allegedly the basis for the successful functioning of this area is no guarantee that healthcare will be better. Often from DOS MPs, and especially from the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, we hear apologetic performances similar to that of the DOS, which is called for the time and legacy of the authorities to be difficult to inherit. Mr. Health Minister Joksimovic also performed similarly. The length of his function as minister will depend precisely on the performance of work and operations in the field of health, and it will certainly not be a successful minister if he is just talking from this pay phone about an inheritance that was one or another. The Minister of Health is also responsible for his actions, and is responsible for his inaction. We have no one else in the field of health to blame for the state of health, but Mr. Minister of Health. I don't understand how all this anxiety, and those stories don't drink water anymore about how the legacy was burdensome, how hard the legacy was. The people received promises in the pre-election campaign of DOS that this bad condition would change for the better, and not only was it not the status quo, that it was the same as it was, they wouldn't blame anyone if it had remained the way it was, but the situation changed to worse. DOS must finally understand that the government is in power, that only DOS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are responsible for a very difficult situation in all areas of society, not just in health. Healthcare professionals are working under never more difficult conditions and are often forced to improvise to provide basic working conditions. The material receipts of healthcare workers will not depend on the affirmation of the principle of gross earnings, but will depend on the success of the Serbian economy, which should provide the necessary funds to fill an empty health fund. I am not convinced that under the authority of DOS anything in this country will be better, nor will I believe in reforms in the field of health insurance. I personally became convinced of the situation and the position of health care professionals because of the family tragedy that hit me. I was a witness at Smederevska Hospital. I don't mention Smeder's because I'm an MP from Smederev. We Serbian radicals do not suffer from local patriotism. We are equally fond and equally important to every city in Serbia, every village in Serbia, every municipality in Serbia. I witnessed a surgeon in a revolt throwing blunt scissors that he couldn't cut off a surgical thread. That's really how it was. The material position of all health workers is very difficult. The affirmation of gross earnings as the basis for the calculation of all fiscal taxes will not help unless a particularly bad economic and social situation is corrected. The failure of the DOS coalition is reflected in all areas of society. Will the Republic Health Insurance Institute, through the adoption of the proposed law, make better incomes and thus secure salaries for health care workers? I have often expressed my mistrust in Zoran Djindjic from this pay phone and then in the other ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia. There's something rotten in the government that speaks in favor of my arguments. There are scandals, affairs, nepotism, and all of this will not contribute to a better life for Serbian citizens. The DOS MPs, as they are particularly concerned, will vote in favour of the proposed law, and the consequences they will surely be in the coming period will show that they were wrong. For those DOS MPs who act as if they are at a football game in the people's parliament, and especially for DOS MP Vuksic, there is something that is indicative. It's a folk saying - he's wearing bells so he doesn't get lost, he's got a crazy tongue.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6431	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6432	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, health insurance in every society, even in ours, makes the social security of every working man and his family. On arrival to DOS authorities, representatives also spoke to all mouths and promised to have an alternative for each law, i.e. that all the laws would be adapted to their people. DOS expert groups have ready packages of law, so they have a new health insurance law ready. Today, however, we are only discussing changes and additions that regulate the financial sphere, and the Continuum Act is likely to be proposed in some future time. That's what Minister Joksimovic said. Maybe, in the third decade of 100 days, because in the first 100 days we've heard that the DOS Corps is not satisfied either. How to be satisfied when only individuals from the government are satisfied, for God forbid they're not satisfied. To make a new law, it takes this area to be so designed that the law and everything that is related to it is at a higher level than today. How to solve this, when I doubt the budget that needs to improve finance and this law. The gross profit system is also the basis for funding in this law. Someone said that in the 1990s at the Social Security Fund, we gave $200 per capita, and today 30 dollars and needs remain the same. A massive system does not guarantee a transition. This leads us to have a certain number of workers fired here too. Where we're going with them and how, there's probably going to be a program and a plan that's going to work negatively and make a bad comment. With this bill, the private sector is lagging behind, so that it too needs to be detailed and translated into legal norms. The essence of this law is the affirmation of gross earnings. We know that the prescribed bases are between 3,000 and 12,000 as security for filling this fund. The biggest debtors are big systems, and they're the biggest losers. How it's going to work out, that's the same problem I've already mentioned. It's not a wasteland left in that size and shape. The desolation was caused by people who had long-term obstruction in our health care and our pharmaceutical industry because they wanted to subdue them to their interests. That's what Mr. Panic and his buddies did. Resolve salaries of healthcare professionals must monitor a higher level of technological discipline, government and overall economy. And this bill of health insurance only gives us an assumption, and that assumption is linked to a network of many unknowns. With this bill, by my assumption, it will come under the influence of companies that are now in a difficult situation. I thought the peasant issue would be regulated by this law, but this time that question goes around. Which, with this proposal, would solve that question for me, because there's probably a new law waiting for us. Why is a peasant always left behind, not for starters? By passing this law, the government will immediately move to pass sublegal acts, which will regulate the rates of contributions. Why the adact, when can it solve a new law? But probably, experts aren't ready for that right now. Because the reform laws from the scene move the political gromads, and this is just a grain compared to the gromada. Today in hospitals is a difficult situation, today in health homes is a difficult situation, today in our health ministry is a difficult situation, today in the Assembly is a difficult situation. Only the quorum has improved and around 135 MPs are moving from a possible 176 DOS Corps.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6433	The People's Messenger Radojko Petric has the word, and after him, the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6434	The respected presidency, respected MPs, respected members of the government last week, when considering the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act and the Employment Act, has justifiably indicated that a high base has been proposed on which contributions to compulsory social security should be paid. The same is true now that we are discussing the proposal for a health insurance law and the payment of contributions to health insurance. The other thing is that there are great needs for health care, but you can't even burden the economy, because she can't cope with the high contributions she needs to pay. On the basis of the very text of the proposed law, as well as the given explanation, which was provided with the bill, it is not easy, nor easy to see what the basis is and how the contribution to health insurance should be calculated. They create confusion and certain false reasonings. For example, it is said that the lowest basis for calculating the contribution so far was 470 dinars. However, it is known that corrections have been made three months now in line with the growth of average earnings and that this base was still above the 470 dinars. The proposed law, as well as the attached reasoning, does not show whether the contribution rates will be proportionate or progressive. It would be logical for the government to prepare concise and clear regulations that will be clear and understandable to the average citizen. We see, however, that the proposed provisions are not clear to us either to the MPs who are to be formally adopted. How will these regulations, which we now adopt, be able to understand tomorrow and apply the workers who work with employers to calculate profits. Already at the beginning we are in a position that the competent ministries will have to give instructions for the application of the law, various interpretations etc. A series of associations and other professional institutions will organise seminars to interpret how the law should be applied. Does this government raise the efficiency of the work of the administration in employers? Could not the professional services of the ministries, or were requested by the professional services of the PDO at the NBJ, the Republic Public Revenue Administration, the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund and the Republic Health Insurance Institute, have done hypothetical examples for all proposed categories of expertise. It is eight assumed cases, from unqualified workers, qualified, SSS, VKV, higher, university, master's degree, specialization and PhD. If such examples and explanations had been given normally, the congregation would have spent much less time in the debate. This certainly implies that the proposed provisions themselves should be recast and clearer. I'm going to remind the government of a particular role model from our not-so-nearly past. When Prince Milos was supposed to approve some law, he asked that they bring him Milisav, a peasant from the Woodland, to read him the law. If Milisav says his law is unclear, such a law could not pass. So he could pass a law that was understood by an average citizen. The current government can learn a positive lesson from this. Furthermore, I would like to point to Article 2 of the proposed law, where the following is said: "The Minister responsible for Health Affairs, the Minister responsible for Labour Affairs, the Minister responsible for Social Affairs, agree on how to calculate and pay contributions. "What happens if these three ministries can't reconcile their views? So, you're going to have to extend the deadlines for getting instructions in some way, someone's going to have to arbitration. Wasn't it more logical to say that this and that ministry would bring that instruction, or that it was the government's duty to do so. Furthermore, Article 9 of the proposed law obliges the authority responsible for payment operations to notify by the end of the current month the competent Republic authority of employers who have not made any payments for the previous month, i.e. a contribution to health insurance. The competent tax authority shall continue to establish within 8 days the obligations of the employer to pay a contribution within a specified period. Please, let's see how many loose ends there are here. It shall not be stated within what time limits the obligation is to be carried out. It had to be defined here that the procedure would be carried out on the basis of already existing rules, such as the General Administrative Procedure Act, or some other regulation, or an exact deadline, which are deadlines. For example, what is the time limit within which observations must be made to the minutes, within which a solution must be made, within which time-limit a solution should be carried out, etc. It's not known if it's eight-day deadlines, three days, 15 days or a few months. This indeterminateness leaves the possibility of applying different deadlines to employers. That was confirmed in his discussion the other day by Parliament's parliamentary group president, Ceda Jovanovic, when he explained the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which is identical in this part with this law. This really isn't good. Despite best intentions, there can be an expression of great deviation. There will be social, family, party and other connections. This creates favourable conditions for bribery and corruption in order to obtain a more favourable treatment, which all results in material resources. All of this has other even harder implications for the country's overall legal system. If we want the rule of law, it also implies strict respect for the law, that all are equal before the law. It is thought that all citizens are equal before the law, but all employers and all legal persons are equal. According to the proposed provisions, all employers, i.e. legal persons, will not be equal before the law. This is even more pronounced when we look at the proposed article of the 10th law, where it is prescribed that, in addition to fines, it can be said that there is also a measure of banning the exercise of activity within 30 to 90 days. On the other hand, whether a preventive contribution payment measure can be achieved through other instruments without such rigorousity, which can drive the employer into bankruptcy. I'm here to say that employers, or legal persons, will not be equal in front of the law. In fact, some will be given the measure of banning work, and some will not. That will depend on the individual who utters that measure. For these reasons, it would be necessary for the Government to amend the bill at least in these parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6435	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6436	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, health problems must be extremely complex and complex. These problems are from the previous period, and some have been started lately. It is certain that they are not only in the sphere of the Health Insurance Act. In addition to this law, there is also a significant law on health care, which would have to go parallel to this law, especially with the Law on Medical Chambers and the Information System. Which is why I think they have to go parallel. At this point, we will determine whether to succeed in such a difficult economic situation by providing more resources to function health, and at the same time leaving one Health Protection Act, which has been overcome and which surely with such rights and what health care can provide, does not follow the situation that needs to be provided through contributions to health care. It only discusses whether it is on a net basis and now we have a gross basis, or whether we will succeed on a gross basis to provide more money that will enter the health fund. I don't think we're going to make it, and that's going to be the main problem, which will follow us in the next period, and when the health reform comes, it's going to be very unfavourable. It would logically be that when you increase the base and discard all the abuses that were in the previous period, when many directors avoided paying for health contributions, when selling goods simply avoided all contributions and tried to reduce themselves, logically it would never be, that we would be able to get into a health fund more funds. But what happens when you put such restrictive and repressive methods on the economy, which is practically on the extremity. It will happen that we will have a reduction in the number of employees, that individuals, businessmen, employers, will have to go to the layoff of a certain number of workers. In a conversation with some people, employers, lately I've been told that whoever has six workers, simply three will have to fire, because in this situation they won't be able to pay all those taxes that are set. We will come to a situation where we will practically have even less resources for healthcare than we want, and the legislator wants to have more money. It was said that $200 in 1990 was paid into health care. That's the exact information. And now we're somewhere at $30. But it forgets that we didn't have so many private offices at the time, and now we have them. There's something more important going on. When you go to the hospital today, except for the bed, you have to bring everything else. You went to the hospital in 1990 with a towel and possibly slippers. Today you'll pay for the drugs there, there you'll pay for the interrogations, there you'll take the food from the house. When you factor it all in, you came to the same thing, so basically nothing has changed much, and there's not much that can change. You have one level of health care that we're trying to maintain, and it costs so much, and that's that cake that exists. You can't take hot water now and say -- well, now we're going to torture something, so it's going to be cheaper, because suddenly we're going to make money, so our health care is going to bloom. It's not going to happen, it's just that it has to go, we have to be aware that, until the Health Protection Act solves the problem and the level of health care, it means that we go to a few levels, so that we know what basic protection is, what has to be paid, and what's something that simply can't get into what's going to be taxed, but an individual who wants to have to have it and take out money to pay. Now, until that moment, until we get to one general strategic follow-up of all the problems the health care has, this is a patching of something that ultimately won't produce any results. The minister spoke here of two billion marks of debt. He didn't say what kind of debt it was and how much debt it was made. It's a very important question, because it's a health debt, which health rule is working, and not having the means to pay for everything that's used. Therefore, it would easily be possible to get the impression that those two billion marks were simply picked up and taken away, and now the health care is left in the dubiosis, so someone else needs to make up for it now. I don't think that's correct, but I'm sure it was, and there's still a terrible disorganization in health, because, believe me, there's no money, there's no state, there's no such economy, which is able to pay for disorganized, poorly organized health care. We had a health care company that bought scanners in some remote area, and we gave huge money, and we left, say, all of Serbia without ultrasounds, or without something necessary for diagnostics, so we left the centers in the province to "with a stick and a rope" doctors know how they know, and we built, say, a World Heritage Centre, billions and billions. So there must have been some major failures in the organization. I hope your failures will be removed, but you can't qualify everything right now, and especially say, you went to China (who here, from this hall, went to China, I don't believe anyone went to China), or who did? It's these cobwebs, general stories, that are already getting tired of everybody, like anyone can and wants to travel to China. What's the point of this moment and what's going to be more burdensome is the price of drugs that 120% have gone lately. It's a disaster, it shouldn't have happened because it throws health care from a difficult situation into a complete disaster. The pharmaceutical industry did positive business, the pharmaceutical industry made sports halls and had strong money, and in the pharmaceutical industry, the functioning of the industry, and especially private pharmacies, and even some other suppliers, there were the most abuses. That's where the health money got the most lost, on that road. However, nothing has literally been done in that field. But what happens now -- one industry, which worked positively and well, and which had the extra money to invest in sports clubs and the rest, is given 120% to raise the price of drugs, to go to the European level of medicines. So what a European level, the price of drugs, when this is an African opportunity for citizens to pay for it. And what we have now -- Romanian and Hungarian medicines, which are available at the market, which citizens are now buying at the market, to provide themselves with medicine. Catastrophically, for no reason at all, raising the price of the drug to the level that we're going to get into a situation that citizens really won't be able to provide even basic medications. We had here a story about participation. Participation, gentlemen, has an effect only if it is in the function of savings. The money that will be obtained through participation, if you go on all medications, is nothing, it's a drop of water in the sea. You don't get anything by it. If this works as a savings function, then if it goes into the function that the most expensive drugs, which cost several thousand dinars in one dose, go to participation, to prevent doctors from giving these drugs, if they are not necessary and that whoever wants to receive these medicines has to touch them, then it makes sense, some effect. Now, it's going to be a big burden for the citizens again, because at that basic price, which is a terriblely large, added participation, there's a new tax that wasn't there, so it really doesn't make any sense. There was a talk here about prevention, and I think Mr. Lune was talking about this prevention, about the Japanese doing a gastroscopy for six months, so they prevented an increased number of stomach cancers. That's absolutely true, but it doesn't add up to the story that there's a lack of money, so we don't have any prevention. The preventative isn't looking for any major means. It takes a gastrooscope to do something like that, and nothing else. It's not even about preventing early detections, let's say, women don't go to regular checks, or other things are done, like we used to have fluorographing of the lungs, or early sugar detection, etc. So it's not about money, it's about often, and the most common thing about us in disorganization. That's why, and this law, as it's been broken, won't be gross, it won't be net, so it's going to pass, essentially it doesn't bring anything, and it doesn't get anything in health care, if it doesn't follow the Health Protection Act, health reform, the medical chambers, the information system, if all these things that have been accumulated for years and represent a great burden, if they're not eliminated, if one health strategy is eliminated, and that we know what we want and how much we can, as a state and as a society, in health care, if we don't get on our feet, then there won't be anything of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6437	The word has the People's Messenger Tord Laszlo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6438	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, health care and health care issues, are certainly such a thing that congregation discussions on this subject can be conducted for days and days. I'm not surprised that, in fact, it's a purely technical law, i.e. The motion to change the law, we've been here all afternoon, and now it's 17.00 hours, so we'll probably continue that discussion tomorrow. But it is certainly a grateful topic, where everyone expects that, eventually, profits that political points, and it is normal for each party to present some of its own ideas about the problem. As I understand it, the essence of this bill of change is really purely technical, so it fits into change, i.e. the transition from the system of accounting for these taxes and contributions from net personal income to gross personal income. As for the rate, i.e. The basics, which are somewhat disputed, made that single bill roughly - on the lowest basis, which is about 3,000 dinars, if we take a 6% rate, that's 2,200 dinars a year (I say indicatively, don't take it for evil if I'm wrong about a few dinars), and for the highest profit, that's 8,500 dinars a year. If we turn that into stamps, since we've, unfortunately, been used to making real value in stamps for the past few years, then we can say that for that lowest profit it's far below 100 marks, and for the highest profit there's about 200, 300 marks, or slightly less. I wouldn't mention the real cost of costing health services, although from the transition to market-based innovation within market reforms, it's certainly one thing we still have to take care of, so one thing is certain, that with these small divisions, which exist, which so far in health, we have so broad rights, which by law the insurance companies have, we haven't been able to satisfy, and the question is how and from now on we will succeed in that. So far, it's the essential Health Protection Act, i.e. and health insurance, which may be more important about this problem, allowed all the rights, but we saw how it was actually reflected in everyday life. The fact is, the insurance guy had all the rights. However, we always come across the wall about the exercise of these rights. So this participation that is now being proposed is what a children's game would say in relation to Boyic's participations, i.e. participation, since I'm a surgeon, I know the prices, the proposed prices of his operations, which were even more expensive at the time in some areas than the prices in private clinics. So I consider this change, a proposal to change the law as just one first and initial step in achieving some improvement on the health plan. What we must take care of is certainly the realisation of these funds. I hope we don't get into this situation as in previous years, that at the level of individual branches of the Republic Health Fund, that realisation is 40%, 50% or 60%. So that realization would have to be over 90% and then that would make sense. I hope we have with these legal possibilities and instruments to lead to that degree of realization. We all know that so far it has been a practice to release certain "successful" contributions, including health contributions. Certainly, the solution will give a new health insurance law and a new health care law, where reform rights on this issue are certainly expected. The real reform in this sense is that, on the health insurance plan, we really get closer to European countries and take one model that will be more appropriate than this one has been. Another segment in my opinion would be very important to point out, and that's decentralisation. Health decentralisation is necessary, because managing such a massive, huge system from a single center, as has been the case so far, is very difficult and probably carrying a number of problems. So I hope that decentralisation will be one of the segments that will contribute to a more successful health function. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6439	The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and after that, MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our minister is gone, and Chad's gone, but he's fine, there's Lune, future minister. It won't be a problem. The proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act should retain the principle of minimum basis for the calculation and payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance determined according to the degree of professional preparation, the job prices established by the border collective agreement applicable from 1 January 1999. This solution has shown good results in the collection of contributions, i.e. a better financial effect in the previous period. In this way, the possibility of employers to avoid the payment of contributions to actual earnings, in accordance with the law, or collective agreement, has been reduced. In this way, it continues to prevent one number of employers from paying reduced earnings, and the other part of the profits is paying off legal flows, avoiding tax and contribution payments, as well as other fiscal burdens on earnings. In order to bring the level of public spending into line with the opportunities and development of the economy, i.e. to provide real resources from real sources for the functioning of health services and the implementation of the health insurance law, it is necessary to coordinate the financing of health insurance with changes in the fiscal treatment of earnings, while retaining the current fiscal burden, where the basis for the calculation will be net earnings, without the participation of other fiscal taxes. Also, on the basis of the calculation and payment of the contributions paid by the employer in accordance with the law, a warm meal, a regression and others should not be allowed in, as it will make it difficult to make payments to the Health Insurance Fund. The base can't be lower than the following amounts: and if we look at it, and the degree was already 470 dinars, and now it's 3,033 dinars, so somewhere about 6 times more. It's about this relationship that was followed from I to VIII degrees, for which the base was once 2,300, and now it has to be 12,724 dinars. Again the same problem as PIO, and here the basis for the payment of contributions is the five-fold gross earnings per employee in the Republic. In this way, there has been a financial blow to the companies, which are still very hard to deal with. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a shame there's no health insurance problem for peasants anywhere. I must say that the amount for health insurance amounts to two or three times the amount of income tax and the property of the peasants. Despite all this separation, he's got nothing from this fund when he finds himself in a position to use it. The hospital and all possible hospital treatments fall back on his financial burden. In the current situation when many peasant households, the old age=a became a social case and this time the government did not keep a pre-election promise to the village and peasants. The drugs are gone, the health services are getting worse and worse, the hospitals are ruined, the position of employees is difficult, and the government is doing nothing to solve these problems. I don't know if hospitals and all medical facilities this government wants to sell. We used to be proud, and we could say that we were at the top of the world for health care. Mr. Minister, I apologize, he's gone, you say there's been a health disaster in the past. And I'm wondering such humanitarian aid where it works, you've been closer to that matter, so that's the problem, and you probably know more about these machinations than I do. When the 2001 budget was adopted, I suggested that the funds for health care be increased by double, your political contemplators were smoothly rejected. Hospitals are in very poor and miserable condition. Instruments are obsolete or due to large use unusable. Doctors' and healthcare workers' salaries are miserable, and they usually resort to improvisation to do this very important and delicate job. Ladies and gentlemen, when the DOS came to power first Mr. Justice Minister Batic raised salaries in the judiciary, I don't mind, he's probably trying to exorcise justice, and it hasn't been approached to improve the conditions of the most significant profession. Today when a sick man goes to the hospital and doesn't take a bed and they're miserable in the hospital, he takes everything else with him, as if, God forbid, he's moving forever from his family. Ladies and gentlemen, social security for farmers, as well as PIO, is needed to be voluntary and not imposed by the government. The peasants won't pay for this imposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6441	The People's MP Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, followed by the MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6442	The honourable MPs, the MP is right, this was supposed to be one technical matter, to amend and supplement the social and health laws in line with a set of tax laws. But a broader discussion was launched by the health minister, so we will certainly in our presentation, at least we Serbian radicals and touch it. Normally, I'll say something about amendments and additions to the Social and Health Insurance Act. This is just a continuation of the harmonisation of labour and social legislation with a set of tax laws, which the assembly majority has already adopted. From the bad solutions in the tax package, normally they have to come up with bad solutions in labour and social legislation. The basis for taxation, i.e. the basis for applying the health contribution, becomes already known so-called gross earnings. It will also significantly burden taxpayers with greater scope. From that fact, the health minister concluded that the increased inflow of funds would revitalise the health fund, i.e. radically correct the health situation at all. I'm saying it won't come to this, for the simple reason that the economy won't be able to throw out so many taxes and contributions. What's more, I think the financial situation in the fund is going to get worse, and so is the whole health care. With this pay phone for weeks, we have assured you that what you did in the tax law sphere is not good and that as a boomerang it will return very quickly to the budget users: doctors, professors and others. Instead of significantly reducing the tax burden, and expanding the number of taxpayers and thus filling the budget, you did the opposite. To an intolerable level, you've raised taxes, killed this little economy that's left over after 10 years of sanctions and bombings, and your budget will be empty. Make sure your budget stays empty. I'm afraid the fate of the Republic of Serbia's budget will be experienced by the Health Fund. It'll stay empty. The health situation is extremely bad. It is bad, as from the point of view of the level and quality of health services, it is poor from the point of view of the equipment of health institutions, i.e. the lack of investment funds, and ultimately, the material situation of health workers is catastrophic. I agree with Mr. Secretary completely. The situation in healthcare has deteriorated dramatically over the last 10 years, from year to year it has been worse and worse. In my opinion, the reasons for this condition are as follows: first of all, it is a difficult position of the economy that such a bulky machine could not finance in the old protest way. You remember, during our self-management, we had an SIZ for health insurance, there were all the funds coming together, and from there we were centralizing the entire health care of the Republic. The economy at the time, remember, was far more powerful and could withstand such a massive and expensive apparatus. However, over the past 10 years, when the economic situation from year to year was becoming more difficult and more difficult, such a system of health financing simply could not survive and the situation was getting worse and worse. Ten-year-old destroyers and, I may say, genocide sanctions were meant to destroy our economy. First of all, to destroy the economy, and to destroy in a portable, indirect way both the health care of this nation and this nation. That's why the sanctions are extremely genocide. Furthermore, the reason for this state of health is a 10-year break in any reform moves in this area. Such a massive, skeletal health system simply needs to be reformed, no matter how much inflow there is in the health fund, no matter how much these funds are, if they are centralized like this and this way is financed by healthcare, it will never give effect. There will always be centres of power, whether this clinic is in Dedinj or Smederev, and there will be, I say, unfair and unfair distributions of these funds to individual centres. In the end, they contributed significantly to this situation, and I agree with Mr. Minister, and great abuses in the health sector. Let's just think of Director Djordjevic and this big affair, there was probably also a machination about importing drugs. Here I agree with Mr Nikolic, if there is such information, then the name and the last name of the man who did it must be said for this assembly speaker, and not so casually - you did it, the previous government did this, but the name and the name of the man who did it must be said. Let's remember, in the end, the minister did not mention "Gallenika" abductions by Panic in the same previous period. All of this forward is, in my opinion, the main reason that health care is in such a situation as it is. What do we have today, what situation do we have today? We have a DOS that's been in power for almost eight months in this country. The sanctions have been lifted and allegedly we have access to all international monetary institutions: Paris, London Club, World Bank, IMF, sanctions do not exist, even that external financial wall of sanctions. That's the facts. Then, we have an economy and it's an indisputable fact, it shows all the statistics, which is still in a worse material situation than it was seven or eight months ago. We have an economy that is terribly burdened with new taxes and contributions, which will certainly result in a lower flow of funds in the health sector. We have the worst drug supply situation in 10 years. We've had the most expensive meds in the last 10 years. These government experts remembered that even drugs tax 20%. Here's a little example of what cynicism is. The DOS's majority here supported the government's proposal and we've introduced 20% taxes on drugs. For example. The cure was 100 dinars and it cost 120 dinars. It's okay. Right after 10 days, the federal government brings the regulation and allows the drugs to collect for another 100%. So this same drug that just up to a month ago cost 100 dinars, now costs 240 dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia takes 40 dinars on the medicine for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Normally, that's the situation. The argument of the federal government and the Republic government is that the accumulation of drugs will result in better supply of drugs. It is not surprising, then, that this ad today in "Politica", by the Ministry of Health, is given a tender, an offer for the purchase of medicines, so it is said in one clause there that there will not be a criterion that is the cheapest medicine, who gives the cheapest offer, but who, allegedly, that any offer that is acceptable to the minister or I don't know who. Imagine how stimulated any of the economic operators are to make such an offer. It is clear what will be the most acceptable if it is not the cheapest. I understand that there are criteria: the quality of the drugs, that is, what is registered in this country, and the price. It's not a criterion for the minister to decide who he'll give it to. That's what a taxicab says in that ad. Next, what kind of situation do we have? Usurpation and crime in the health sector have not been reduced. It even takes the situation of a real gang war. Just take the whole Galenika thing. Panic answered yesterday and sent a message to the government of the Republic of Serbia, too bad there is no minister, in that message he says - I am a very dangerous man, a very dangerous businessman, I have many friends in that government, so I won't be long. What's that? Imagine Panic, he's threatening the government - if you don't give me Galenika, I'll bring the gangsters from Chicago or, I don't know where he lives, California. Normally, and that must be known, he should not act so that logistics does not give him Batic. Be sure of that. A man like that, such a criminal to threaten the government of the Republic of Serbia, and publicly in the media, came out a man on television, writes etc. In the end, we have since October a negative selection of health care personnel. By placing your members at the leading post, what we had in the previous period, that the staff were selected in such a way that they belonged to the political option of the JUL, the SPS, etc., we now have the same selection of staff, regardless of the expertise, moral quality, the reputation that enjoys in that health institution, etc. That's definitely going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, It's an effect in these seven or eight months, chaos, total chaos. We also have a health minister, full of optimism, who announces deep health reform procedures, so I suggest, let's wait and wait, because he announces that it will be in 15 to 20 days, to see what kind of reform that minister is proposing. But when I'm cool about Panic's threats, I don't think the minister's gonna make it. He's usually very nice to me like this, like he doesn't belong to DOS. He's an open man. I don't think it's gonna work, as long as he's got this mob breathing down his neck. After all, he failed, as you saw, neither Vuk Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6443	The word has a folk MP, Rada Bajic, and after that Srda Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6444	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, and in previous laws that were on the agenda, what was most discussed, these are these famous bases for paying social and health insurance contributions. He participated in both the principles and the amendments, however, individuals who later went out or who did not realize, or deliberately perverted what was discussed about these bases. In particular, none of the SPS MPs here, nor did he approach the demagogue of this problem, nor did he cry over someone's fate, but simply wanted the arguments to show that indeed these foundations will bring many employers into a very uncomfortable position, and individuals will have to in some way and shut down their businesses. If this introduction into bankruptcy, or something else, then it's a completely different question, and I repeat, and I said, if we remember that in many municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, the average personal income is far below those 4,400 dinars as official as it is now, and that based on that average of 4,200 dinars of the rules of the ground, normally adding all that, but now gross wages, regress, warm meal, field allowance fee, gross one, gross two, gross two, or taxes and contributions, then there was a base of 3,033 dinars for the simplest jobs of up to 12,724 dinars for the doctor of science. Now, take a company that had an average of 1,000 dinars or 1,500, and many in many municipalities such enterprises exist. So we're based on one average of 4,400 dinars, and we know how to get to the average, it's got companies that had 1,000 average net personal incomes and 2,000 and those between 7,000 and 8,000 dinars. All paid according to their income achieved, i.e. the average of taxes and social contributions, i.e. health insurance. Now we've made an average of, say, 3,033 dinars to 12,724 dinars for all businesses, or for those companies that had far below the current middle base, or medium net personal income, we've put them in a position that they can't meet their obligations. Does this mean simply giving the child a bag of 50 kilos, or base, a bag to wear and of course he can't wear it? Let's wait for him to grow up, wait and normal when he's got that power, he'll be carrying a 50-pound bag. Not SPS MPs against gross earnings, we've already pointed out here, that we are, we agree on that principle, we're not against being filled with social and health insurance funds, we're not against it, we know what kind of health care is, the workers who work in these institutions, but we have to wait for time, or we have to adapt the current legal regulations to the situation and the employers and those who use these services, or I mean the citizens. Let's not put some people in a position to shut down their businesses, and we're forcing them to pay personal incomes, too, based on those prescribed legal bases to pay taxes. Otherwise, if they don't, they're about to be banned from working for 30 to 90 days. So it's not a situation, it's not a crying over fate, it's an indication that many companies won't be able to reconcile these obligations, that many privates won't want to settle their obligations. When he feels he's not making any income, it's simpler to fire the workers and not pay the contributions. Therefore, we need to adapt not on the basis of 3,033 dinars for the lowest professional equipment, i.e. 6,635 dinars for the fifth degree, or 9,000 and 10,500 for the high gear, but simply to adapt their performance to those enterprises where they have low personal income, to adapt and to pay both profits and obligations to suppliers and obligations to the state. Not under obligation, as the people say, under the musk that he must pay the state and the rest of what is done. So there's too much burden that I can't accept at this point and I need to wait for a certain time to stabilize, so that I can pay. Let me tell you something, the same inflow will be in the funds, because whoever has 10,000 will pay on those 10,000 dinars, and whoever has 1,000 dinars will pay contributions to their 1,000 dinars, and on average, it will be, but we will put everything in the same position. Let's find one point from which we'll all be distant in the same way or close in the same way. Let us not put one company in a position to come under bankruptcy, and other companies in a situation so that they can easily pay off everything. Unfortunately, companies that can easily pay off have very little, see statistics, see municipalities that have these average personal incomes, below average, how many of their businesses there are. So many more companies cannot yet settle their obligations. I repeat that we wait, to stabilize, to grow up that founder so that he can carry a bag, so that we can introduce these rates, not what we do, when it comes to the minister, and his exposure. I've always said, and on the first day I came in here, that I consider this an institution, the largest institution in the state, that MPs should treat this institution as well. In fact, I always thought that ministers had to behave even more and more well here. The minister kept the tirada and went outside. I was simply thrilled that the minister, by the previous law, did what she was like, Mrs. Matkovic. She stuck strictly to the law and didn't make any trips in the past, not in the future, but only wanted to discuss the law, the current situation and what was ahead of us. I suppose that's how the minister should behave. This is where the minister held a tirad that doesn't look like a minister at all, came out, and I was called on Sunday by doctors, a group of doctors from the health center in Novi Sad, one of the largest centres in Novi Sad. They told me, we don't belong to your party, we have addressed both the Ministry and the Government of the Executive Council of the Province, we have spoken to the city, they know about our problem, human resources and human resources, and now the situation is at the health center in Novi Sad, it's criminal, and it's completely reversed and mutilated this institution. Slowly, gentlemen, in spite of all the difficulties, they point out and they will turn to everyone, not to work but to the dental service, not to do the duty of duty, to question and to the emergency services, and they have asked me to say, even though they do not belong to the party where I belong, a few sentences and I am taking this opportunity. I thought I wasn't gonna say it, but when the minister gave the lecture, I had to take it. One more thing, the minister said, in the hallway the other day, that he was absolutely certain that the proper supply of drugs was done in China, that prices were the lowest and that it was logical to import those drugs. He said something else today. I'm not interested in it at all, or I'm interested in it myself if someone took a commission on those drugs. But how is it possible if someone was already building the price and putting it in his pocket, that these same drugs should be collected by 120 percent more? Then who's responsible for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6445	The word has the People's MP Srdja Popovic, and the next is MP, Mihajlo Jagodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6446	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in an attempt to prepare ourselves for this session, we MPs of the DOS wanted to ask a little bit about the current state of health insurance and the state of health. We've established that it's extremely difficult. Mr. Toma Jankovic, director of the Health Fund is in prison and we couldn't ask him why our health situation is the way it is. Mr. Nenad Djordjevic, former director of the Health Fund, is not in prison, but is on the run to Flower Island. A few other high-ranking former health authorities are no longer able to answer our questions about what to do with health insurance, so we decided to look for a solution ourselves and that's why today is before us this law. People's MPs mentioned here very true data about the debt in health, about the terrible state of health institutions, about the state of the institutions that are related to this. Maybe we'll find out where that money is when we catch Mr. Boyic, the former minister, who's on the run, and maybe we won't. Until then, this government has tried to do something within the current legal framework. Before we entered into a systematic change of laws, tax laws, social laws and now health laws, a bill on labour relations, establishing a completely new system of gross wages in our society, one responsible and domestic policy, was also possible to do something in the context of existing legislation. That's how someone mentioned donations. In 100 days, the new government has realised $12.7 million by aid. Projects have been launched for another $8.24m to be completed this year. It's health care equipment. In the first 100 days, the government paid the debt found in the health ministry's account of 54.5 million dinars and we wonder why household policy is important. They've secured regular payouts for people who work in health care. They, to remind you, were 4.278 dinars in September 2000 and are now 5,648 dinars. It's a 32% increase and it's real. It could have been done with one smart and domestic policy in 100 days. Now we will be able to do even more, and what is very important, is that we are making this health insurance law a sound foundation in which there will never be any more fear that people will be orphans and that the state will treat them as enemies, not its citizens, that the state of health will be what it was until now, and that is what brings the new concept of gross wages. The amendment to the law is, I agree, technically. Access to the problem is different and it is another important step, I think of us MPs of the DOS. It is clear to us that we have not been given any mandate to rule. We have been given the mandate to change and we have only one mission, this mission is to bring Serbia to the point from which there is never again a return to the old, in that criminalised, corrupt, poored state where we were, in a country where the most famous Serbian cardio surgeon could be Mr. Ratko Krsmanovic, who receives a salary at the Institute of Dedinj where Mr. Aleksandar Radovic, gentlemen of Radicals, Deputy Prime Minister Tom Nikolic, Mr. Alekasdar Radovic was paid at Boyic's in Dedinj. So money has been invested in our health care, and how are you not ashamed to defend Serbian healthcare here?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6447	Second announcement as representative of the parliamentary group Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6448	Ladies and gentlemen, I think each of us has a duty to maintain the dignity of the Assembly. If we are already in a position to have the opportunity in the printed media to have a text that one's hand in general delivered on April 12th, it is published on April 13th, on the black Friday freedom of the media press, in general, and that this text gives criminal application, conducts investigation proceedings, press charges, judges and convictions. Don't do that here in the Assembly. Let us guard the Assembly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from the data which is clearly handled by a special group of MPs, a privileged government, let us beware that we speak - that you are not ashamed, let us beware that we speak in advance that someone is a thief, because working in the judiciary now does not necessarily mean that whoever is in prison is guilty at all. You can see that very well. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia allows itself to write a word that someone has embezzled, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is neither a prosecutor nor an investigative judge, neither a court nor a verdict, it will, of course, receive criminal charges and be sued for that word - embezzlement. How can you expect the judiciary to be independent, because if the government that secures the salary in the judiciary in advance says that someone has embezzled, of course the judiciary has to listen to its government and decide so. Don't let us here in the Assembly deal with accusations, we've chosen people to talk about laws, to start initiatives, to create better conditions for life and work. Let's stop taking out data, because if we're chosen to extract data and if that's the point, then we're going to take out data, but the citizens are going to have something to hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6449	Right on the line, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought at least someone had some souls from you who are in DOS, and now I'm going to tell you the whole story, so you who are parents judge and judge. I'd ask you not to throw until you hear the story. A Kragujevac boy came to me, seven patients have these in Serbia. He's suffering from a disease that is, I'm saying it now even though he may know it all, but what prognosis is really bad. That boy will probably end up in a wheelchair. He had a tragedy in his family, lost his father. He asked how he could come up with a little money to buy drugs, since he doesn't even have health insurance. I found out about that story, and I tried to help. Since he was in Belgrade on VMA one day, and since he and Milovan Bojic are originating in the same village, he went to Dedinje and asked to be examined at Dedinj. Milovan Bojic, who you all are so generalising, who may have done some work for which he should answer, but should not be held accountable for what he did well, has looked at the diagnosis. This child needs a lot of medication a month and is mostly supplied from abroad. We agreed to start treating that child. In order to treat him, he had to have health insurance. To have health insurance, he had to get a job, and that's the kid, but cut it out, man. If you're not married and you don't want to have kids, go outside. That boy's busy on Santa. Since the time he spent, which is almost a year and a half or two as a bust, almost a year he was on VMA, lying as a patient, and when it started with the changes and when the revolutionary power of Dedinje entered, the first thing was to tell him that there were no more rights or obligations to Dedinj. In the government of the Republic of Serbia he once brought mail to Milovana Bojic and to me, and here he is again at home without health and social security. He had the police, he made a statement from his heart, from a point to a point in time with him, and I thought that you who deal with the personal files of certain people in Serbia could, when you read something, separate what you should attack from what you shouldn't attack. This case, this child's case could serve to make Milovana afraid some little medal would, and you can't call it that, never at all. Of course, that child is once again directed to find some money for the drugs after the neighborhood. He's got no right anymore because he doesn't even have a working relationship anymore, but he's just saying about how tiny souls you are, and I'm not going to accuse you all. I don't even know who said that at the pay phone. I asked Srda if it was him. You're Srjo's young boy. It's a boy your age, you could see him walking down the street, and then everything would be clear to you. (Chairman: Mr. Nikolic, please... E, not now. As you chat, it's nice for you, and when a man shows you what's going on, it's ugly for you. He's neither one's cousin nor anyone's brother, uncle, aunt, aunt. A kid who doesn't know anyone, knocked on the door to ask for help, and he got help. When you do something humane in your life, come in. And a woman's network would have had something to find out if she'd asked about that case. It would be good if you could help a little bit, and I'll give you the phone number, the address of that boy, so at least help him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6451	Mr. Nikolic, I feel sorry for that boy. It's just, I can help you, and the unemployed have the same right to health insurance. And who said they were right? They have the right to apply to the Bureau of Labour. As president of the parliamentary group, the word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6452	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not this opportunity to prove our humanity. There are numerous examples that speak of individual acts that are completely different and in absolute contrast to what is the characteristic of an individual, of a movement, even of a state. One human gesture, which calms one’s consciousness, cannot correct everything that results from a specific policy. What disease did Ratko Krsmanovic suffer from? What disease did 120 people suffer from at that institute where they were paid? And on what grounds? What diseases did those who asked for the cure at the Institute of Oncology suffer from, and they did not receive the cure? It's about cytostatics. And because the funds are embezzled. We can talk about it, but not this time. Because no one will benefit from that. If there's anything we can do, we're willing to help anyone, including the particular gentleman mentioned here, if there's anything we can do. But that's not the way to solve any of his personal problems, or any of the problems that have arisen during the past that has remained behind us. So when we talk about something, we can't talk about it on one example, but based on what's the fact and the concrete evidence of the accident that we've been living in, the accident that we've been separated from, and we're certainly never going back to. Since we are not going to allow such a thing, so is it because you seem to me that you yourself are aware of how difficult and tragic this period was and that you may occasionally think about what we think about all those you occasionally defend. So don't try on that one case to defend something that's indefensible. We have lived in a deposed society, morally demoted, in a society where fate was determined by individuals, like a gentleman who doesn't deserve to be spoken of at all in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6453	You don't. You used the right to replicate. [[Repeats Ambassador Nikolic seeking replica]] I didn't hear you mention it. Mr. Mihajlo Jagodic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6454	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I want to believe that such a heated and long-term debate on health means the delicateness and weight of the problem that we are dealing with now and in which our health care is, and not that it is a collection of political points. As a neuropsychiatrist, a doctor who worked 16 years in the social sector and 6 years in private, I want to tell you that our people are an extremely emotional people. We're the Balkans. We can't do it without emotion. And fear is something that's emotion. We don't need to arouse any further fears in our people, any further suspicions, that they think something's going on behind the hill now, and that these taxes are going to be such that life and everything around them will be ruined. The democratic opposition to Serbia and the Democratic Party, whose member I am, believes that everything will be fine if we look ahead and look at one goal. That goal will come, only the changes we want to go slowly. The reasons for the changes, seen in the distance, certainly exist, but they appear slowly. That's why I feel the need to tell you that this speaker is for political points, but health care is one area that has a pate and doesn't need to be treated that way. I'd like to return to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. My predecessors have already said that it's a alignment with the tax laws already passed, and I wouldn't, it's a kind of codification, but the phenomenon and affirmation of gross earnings is necessarily evil at this point. Directors and managers of various companies have managed in various ways to avoid making payments, giving it through other ways, through regression, something else and therefore gross profit is one opportunity to improve financial discipline and that people who need to pay the contribution and pay that contribution. When people talk about taxes and contributions, no one says that contributions are too large, but they say that not everyone pays. And, that it is not equally arranged, because some people report less income than they should, or do not report their workers or report their income much less than they did. That's why the problem is big, and gross profit is something that needs to be eliminated. I'm sure she's not perfect. Graduation by degree of education is not exactly a solution, because we know that in some companies that stand well in our economy and some unskilled workers have much better salaries than intellectuals with a high level of expertise. So, that education degree is a necessary evil, but it's not a solution to the problem. I'm sure we'll come up with better solutions. All of what we're trying to negotiate and adopt right now, I think it's kind of a transitional solution. That's why I don't think some parts are even touched. For example, contributions to independent actions have not been changed. The rest are the same. Maybe some changes could happen. I'd say one more thing. This restriction, that the base is five times larger, as some limit, is something that is still needed at the moment, but it shouldn't be permanent. Because this is what the legislator wanted to allow people who have big incomes to report their receipts. That might not be the right answer. Someone who has higher incomes, through some kind of solidarity, should be in principle to give a little more, but in our consciousness it can't be yet. It's certain that that's what people need to talk about, that people start thinking differently. Lack of money in funds and health institutions is also a major problem. Funds and institutions have been trying to bridge these situations with various compensations. It's still happening. Compensation is necessarily evil, but we have to overcome it. Surely this Health Insurance Act of ours must also overcome those compensations that are a temporary solution. I have to say that poverty is difficult for everyone, and it's hard for God. We must survive this phase now and explain to our people that it will be better, to create one patience in it and show our good intentions. If we establish a situation between each other and misunderstandings, then we will only make understanding difficult for people who listen and watch us. The upcoming reform of health care, health care, medical chambers, which cannot yet be formed, is certainly something that will bring much good in this sphere. This job is not easy and there will be public discussion, and we will have opportunities to talk about it all, but right now, this is the time for us to accept these changes and I will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6455	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6456	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, esteemed journalists and dear Madam Vice President, here a man risks being warned when something is principled. But I will risk it one more time, although there is no Mr Joksimovic, except for the grudges we have against him, as minister, there are two things he has done great -- in an extremely effective way he has landed journalist Jugoslav Cosic and told him, in a pure Serbian language, who pays him and whose interest he works for. And in this same language he declared that he was not expressing any doubt about the contingent of drugs that came from China, so if he were there, he would have heard it, but he didn't. I wanted to say it, and I told him myself. If I were to be sure that by adopting the amendments and supplementing this law to the sick people in Serbia for a single dinar, they would be better off and that in anything they would be better off, I would plead today for this law, regardless of the position of my parliamentary group. But I'm not convinced that's gonna happen. Health problems have arisen in the 1970s, when labour and farm insurance funds have been merged. Those who want to say honestly should say, because they listen to us Serbian citizens, that the equal rights of workers and farmers are at the time, and that the level of financial obligations to the Health Insurance Fund has practically remained on the people who were employed in the industry. That measure was necessary, it was meaningful, only, of course, that measure, in addition to the other problems we have, conditioned that the health insurance funds would be emptied faster than they would be filled. It's a fundamental truth about the very beginning of the financial crisis in this important area. In addition to the enlighteners, whom we all honestly believe to be doing the most humane job, medical workers, if it can be built at all, for only one small degree of doing the same job, as previously said, for the general benefit of the population, with extreme responsibility, and our obligation to give health care professionals the words of praise for one delicate and difficult work in the past few years and decades, because they deserve it, regardless of what some people in that profession, as well as in many others, have managed to do the things that only those individuals disqualify, but not the profession in general. I think it's important (there are also several doctors and several medical workers in this assembly) because in Serbia, the easiest thing to do is to pull a gun, and then the word is a thief. And then, a large number of people, or a whole profession, with the help of the unconscious, or so on. hired journalists, we put them in a position to talk about things, or defend themselves from something they didn't do, or what they wanted to do. Here today, on several occasions several MPs from the parties belonging to the government spoke about some people who did responsible jobs in Serbia's health, where they made accusations, gave sentences, called them thieves, etc. That has already been discussed by the head of our parliamentary club, Dr Branislav Ivkovic. Let's leave everyone to do their job, because once you tell someone that he's a thief, there's no denying after that he can't be deprived of those ugly qualifications, many years behind that. No, ma'am, not even in DOS, all the consumed wheat itself. Here is Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic, president of the city government of the Belgrade City Assembly. The city of Belgrade is in many ways one-half, sometimes one-third, and sometimes two-thirds of Serbia, depends on what it is. In that government, for which he is responsible, because there is no other, there is no President of the City Assembly, unfortunately, one doctor who spent several years behind bars because he did things that were not allowed because they were proven in court. I've been reading his newspaper statements these days, as a personal attitude, and he's covering the area in that government that we're talking about here today. You who deal with other people's files, look at that file, will be interesting to you. The gentleman is a member of the Democratic Party, very often exposed and spoke of as thieves. So it's not easy and it's not easy to talk about people without having elemental responsibility and a sense of measure, when you bring out other people's names and qualifications that go with them. If, dear gentlemen, you find that some of the persons you have claimed to have stolen Serbia's health have indeed done so, do your utmost to be condemned as strictly as possible, because they have abused the area in which we are all most sensitive, but only when it is finally, and if it is finally. It would be better if we had a complete law in front of us today, because in every programme of our political parties, which we belong to, people's health is in one of the most important places, and it's not demagogue, it is honest. One who does not pay attention to it has almost no chance of serious politics. Don't talk about health debt as money someone stole. These debts include, among other things, the eight-year treatment of exiled and evasive persons, which only had 20,000 in Chačka, which no one could ever pay. Abnegation and long-term assistance to healthcare professionals and sick people in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, in some other parts, is it necessary for me to talk about it today. In these funds, this debt includes, among other things, paid sickness, paid travel expenses, and what is said to be paid to foreign institutions, treatment on the side, and a lot of other things that had to be done, because when someone is sick, he has the biggest problem for him himself. The doctor gets in almost like a church, almost pious. The doctor is trusted, he is expected to be cured, advice is expected, comfort is expected if there is no favourable outcome. That's why everything needs to be done in this House to give these people a decent reward. They can't be rewarded with dignity by taking money from where it's not. They're aware of that. At least there were strikes with medical workers, and precisely due to the patient's level of responsibility. Does anyone think that health workers didn't strike because they didn't have enough pay? She was often humiliating. It is our duty to help this important segment of society get on its feet, to stop accusing ourselves, and that all of us, as far as we can help the health care heal. We have to say, if we're honest...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6457	Mr. Baralic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6458	I conclude that the level of health care rights must be equivalent to the financial resources that are collected for this area. With the amendments offered and the additions of the law that is before us today, I once again say I have not gained confidence that health care can get something more, and that employers will give something more, it should be believed, because we have already seen it at the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6459	Replica, please, right on the replica of Mr. Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6460	First, thanks to Mr. Baralic for promoting me, far away all praises. I'm not the first man in town, it's the president or vice president of the City Assembly, which is perfectly normal. I didn't recognize myself, but the name he mentioned to me, sir, and the fact that you can't hear well is probably because of all the drugs you're using, that's your problem. So, as for what Mr. Baralic was saying, it's really a shame. You know, Mr. Baralic, you knew 20 and 25 years ago that you were doing various mounted processes. Some of them have been saying, your ex-partners, how you've been able to do it for the last 10 years. So it's not nice that you abused this pay phone. If we need to figure out what it was 20 or 25 years ago, with a young man, then we'll sit down, and we'll check it out together. These people who are mentioned here today and who are your people are people who participated in power. One-third of you were arrested, one-third fled the country, and one-third arrested a new government. Apparently she hasn't even reached your quota yet. Therefore, why do you care so much about them, they will all prove who they are and what they are. It's very ugly what you said, and I'm asking you to come along, since you're from Cačka, that together what happened 20 or 25 years ago, we'll check it out, and then you'll see what's going on. I think you're going to turn a little red.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6461	You can't, you're the one who caused the replica. There's no replica on the replica. I give my word to the MP, Mr Milan Ernjakovic, and the next reported for discussion is the MP, Mr Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6462	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't mean to take your word for it today. There are many doctors in this congregation who have spoken from several parties and several parties today. My wish is in my statement not to touch the party or parties politically when it comes to health and medicine. A healthy man has 100 wishes, and a sick man only has one to heal. If he's wondering about this law, the fact is that he's not very good, he's not even good, but he's also indisputable that he needs to be voted for, or I'll vote for him. That law can be corrected. If we look back a little bit, and look at the situation that hit us in the last 10 years, and with the fact that we learned to live in one system, where we could choose the hospital, where the worker and the peasant could be cured by a doctor, sleep in the same room and eat at the same table for free. Today we're in a situation where when we get to the hospital, we have to wear spoons and forks, plates, pillows, pillows, blankets, sheets, everything else, and from drugs and needles, and syringes, we don't talk. That's proof of one fall in standard. This is proof of one of the sanctions that hit our country, something that Western Europe has done-genocide over our people. This is evidence of the war environment surrounding us, when we from Republika Srpska, and I belong there, came in 1992 and 1993, and in 1994 and 1995 in Banja Luka and Belgrade, and this was the only way out and rescue for us. We've been treated, operated, our fighters, our people for free. All of this was borne by the people and the citizens and the doctors of this country, this queen of the state. We have to be here. [[Applause]] You know, I didn't say this to applaud me, but I have to be honest and open about what it is. Then, in 1999, something that the world has not remembered, which has not been remembered by civilization, which will say books on history that 19 NATO nations are beating up a country of 10 million inhabitants. What's he bringing into that country? It produces poisons, poisons that will only be seen in future generations. Worse poisons than Japan experienced after an atomic bomb dropped on August 6, 1945 in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The plutonium and the uranium, what they have brought and what they will bring to this nation, they will yet be seen. If I didn't open that page and not cause one worrying part of humanity, I'd stop at this point, but I'll just open something else, one box and say it. Today when a man gets sick is something else, and I say it from personal experience, because I had a severe heart surgery in 1990 in Sremska Kamenica by Professor Radovanovic. I know the situation she was in 1990, when the surgery lasted seven hours. I know the situation today, when you're going to check it out, and I'm also going as a doctor, when they came to me for treatment, today and the previous situation is a big difference. Today when a man gets sick, it's a question of who's harder, him or the doctor. Of course, it's harder for a patient, but a doctor when he's powerless he's in a sad situation. She's 20 years old, she has knowledge, and there's no way she can heal. That's why our many doctors went abroad and became famous. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to look back on a part of the negative activity that has been with us for the last few years, and it is now of age. I don't want to say in this situation, someone said eight months of DOS, I see that 100 days of government, so it can't be eight months, but the health situation won't get better in due course, not for a year, not for two, that we're going to take big steps forward, because we're deep in disaster and we're deep in the bottom. It's a big mistake that some managers came to the health care center, so they started getting modern machines from abroad to fill their own pockets. There are, unfortunately, a small number of doctors, but there are more economists and lawyers. I will remind you that in many parts of our Republic there are machines that are of great value, which are worth several million marks. One magnetic resonance and its review do not cost much, as much as I can insulate therapy, or diagnose it. Many of my colleagues who came forward today did not mention any other fact, which is a human factor, equally important. By falling standards, people have managed, and in this way they have tried to survive, but in some cases abuse, I say not all, but individuals, abuse their position. They worked in health institutions, social and state-run types, and they opened private offices at home and in the apartment. These are facts that we cannot avoid and which are true. Then a lobby is created, a ring or a circle is created -- an intern, a surgeon, a gynecologist and another specialist, and then a fellow colleague sends the same patient to circle and he pays for it. Many will resent me in these words, however, and I must open this part of the segment and the dots, so whoever gets hit, let him reconsider himself, and let him punish me also if I have exceeded some measure Time, sir, is very important. [[Dropping out of the O.R.: Time.]] Someone said a long time ago - who finds a bigger constant than time to be a bigger genius than he is. If it was Einstein or anyone else, I wouldn't be able to confirm it right now. There's a panta vey, it's all flowing. However, the time we talk about and in health care on the subject today is very important for humanity and for humanity. It is very important for this population, because, unfortunately, the one who looks ahead will see that we will have worse days than they are today, not only will participation be taken in health care, for medical examination, for medicine, but perhaps even in education the idea of taking participation in education, that whoever listens to lectures, who goes to the exam, that he too will have to pay. The time will come. We go and walk at the time of a black capitalism, and we live in a completely different system, when human values and humanity were treated in a completely different way and when human health had no price. Today everything is seen through the prism of dollars, the prism of stamps and the prism of dinars. So, one materialization of society today is at hand, and everything else, including human life and health, comes into a situation where we have to bow our heads, and if not enough, mind and reason. I've had so much to say and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6463	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Veroljub Arsic, and the next MP, Mr. Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6464	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can say that I am very sorry that the government's authorised representative, in connection with this law, is not in the O.R. right now, because I would like to say something to him and ask him something like that. But despite that commitment, he's not here with us right now. During his presentation, he held a small brief rally on the state of health, on honesty, on morality and on who is guilty, among other things, accused members of the SRS and its leadership. Now, since he's not here, at least I have to ask you DOS deputies to tell him what I'm about to tell him, from word to word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6465	Please, let's listen to Mr. Arsic. If you don't mind, keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6466	When he decides to attack the SRS, let the MPs of the SRS have a good question and see if there are any MPs from the area where he lived and worked. Because if he knew that there were any, I am from Pozharec, in the SRS I am the president of the Branič district of the Serbian Radical Party, including the chairman of the Petrovac Municipal Committee, who is under my patronage. Mr. Obren Joksimovic worked at Petrovac. As one who is now telling us what is the state of health, I can say that he is one of the people responsible for this condition. He's responsible because the citizens of Petrovac caught him once while he was stealing, from a medical center where he worked, armature iron. He was stealing, and when they caught him, he was whining. Gentlemen, I understand your disrespect, I just don't know who you're mad at, whether Mr. Obren Joksimovic was doing it or if you're mad at me. If you're mad at me, then you're just like him. He was stealing, and when they caught him, he was whining about letting him go and not telling anyone. They let him go, but they told me, too. He's guilty, and he has no right to discuss the state of health, because he asked his patients for money. Their wish was for this assembly and the whole of Serbia to know what kind of health minister you have in the government of the Republic of Serbia and what kind of expert it is. So when he talks about some honesty, don't talk to us from the SRS. What's said is 100% true, that's what the Petrovic voters say on the Mlava. As far as the law itself is concerned, I can say that this is a law whose name you have changed and which is made up of the following laws: the Labour Relations Act, the Employment and Rights Act, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act and, now, the Health Insurance Act. All of these laws are literally prescribed from point to point, from member to member, from bet to bet. If these are expert laws, it's an honor to you gentlemen. I can only tell you that this law, such as it is, is not designed to help health care, but is designed to fill the budget of God - dericoces, to bring the economy to ruin, to lead to a large number of unemployed workers, to make it easier and with as few workers as possible to buy our businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6467	The People's Messenger Vladimir Garčević has the word, and after him is the MP of the people Gordana Pop-Lazic. Let's hear from each other, please. Could you keep it down, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6468	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members, I personally expected our distinguished minister to be here to ask him a few questions that require an answer. My place is Sremska Mitrovica and the citizens I meet, and one of the questions I have to do, regardless of the minister's not here, so he won't... (Employees of the SRS get: Here, there's the moon. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6469	Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6470	I have a question as to what is Kosovo's syndrome and information with VMA that is necessary for Serbian citizens? Furthermore, I suggest that the Serbian Ministry of Health, a genetically modified strain, be banned from use in Serbia's territory. The explanation of the Minister of Agriculture, or I don't know what, that it's humanitarian aid and that we don't spoil our relationship with America. Please, if it is forbidden in the European Union, Serbian citizens must know that we are not worse citizens, second-class citizens in this country. I suggest that the soybeans ban the 50, how many millions or tonnes there are, in use in Serbia's territory, either for the feeding of cattle or for human consumption. Next, what I wanted to ask here, which is, what about Galenika, how much of the chaotic state that manifests has an impact on the price hikes? Does the Galenika institution supply, where, how, and what is happening and what is its impact on drugs? These are the questions I wanted to ask, and if I don't get the answers, right now, I'll probably ask them as parliamentary questions at the end of this session, I mean meetings, because it's of interest to the citizens of Serbia. Furthermore, in the opening statement, the minister was quite correct and I personally expected that we would be having a debate on this law and showing it in a correct way. He said, which was not present with these ministers so far, which is that the problem isn't addressed, whether it's economics, it's economics, it's not really health care, and normally, the man has read what he has in front of him in one correct way. I think the ministers should all avoid the part that was done here by the minister of justice. I would ask that both of us MPs and ministers avoid such reactions and those kinds of speeches. There was talk here about the state of health, there were talk of frames. I argue responsibly that Serbia has the best staff of secondary, higher and higher education in the world. You laugh, but it's true. We don't have the technology to get to that level in application. However, our staff is professional enough to be able to access anywhere in Europe. Please, it would be best if the high school staff, from Serbia, didn't go to Europe, if we had the opportunity to hire that chamber, and that's where we're all going to get along, he's high-quality, and he doesn't lay anything to do his job, whether he's New Zealand, Australia, America, Europe and anywhere. This means that the software content of education is also very high quality. Once again, I must say, since I am dependent on circumstances, working towards health care, and for a time I have followed the period of our accident, the tragedy, however you will in Republika Srpska, in the Serbian Krajina, as a humanitarian worker. I can say that health workers, I must say, of Sremske Mitrovica, where I am directed, have worked and given superhuman protection to refugees and to all citizens who have passed through Sremska Mitrovica from the territory of the Serbian Republic, and that is what all citizens who have contributed to help at a given time and are helping today. In that part, not counting, that if there are individual outbursts somewhere, I can say that health care in Sremska Mitrovica has an extraordinary frame, it has no state-of-the-art instruments, but it has extremely good and high-quality personnel. There was something on the facilities, there was a new surgical block, it was supplied with a certain apparatus, but surely there's a lot missing, and in the next period, I don't expect that the health care issue will be resolved without delay. When it comes to health care, also in the past 10 years, there have been sanctions, and that moment and NATO bombing must not be dropped out of sight that they have contributed to a difficult situation in society and a difficult situation in health. Moving from net to gross, I must say, I asked our minister, finance, Djelic - why don't you accept, he says - I can't accept it, that's an order. So this is a deal, so I can accept it, only to move from that system to another system. It'll show time whether it was good or not. I might accept that if we had a social card. We didn't make it either, neither do you now, it's a short time, the social map would allow us to protect that part of the population, next to the old and the underprivileged, next to the children, the youth, to protect the population who is unable to pay for the checkup and is unable to provide medical supplies. So I think that the current increase in drugs, is that it was brought by the federal government, and what is announced, more increases, does not contribute to social and health protection of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6471	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is interesting that we had a delay in the debate on this agenda, because Minister Joksimovic could not attend the session the day that the agenda was held, but he shows his complete lack of interest in what we are talking about today by leaving the National Assembly session. I don't know what that was before, but to be present and cross arguments with us, MPs. What we as MPs might point out, I mean the arguments against this proposed law, are exactly the same arguments that we highlighted in the debate on the points of the agenda that concerned the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, the Employment and Law on the Rights of Unemployed Persons, the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, and to remind you of these are criticisms of such high bases on which taxes and even some of the objections that are more frequent in the course of their presentation. In his presentation, the minister reminded us that in 1990 we had 200 dollars per capita inflows into the health fund. It's only $30 today. However, we cannot ignore the fact that for the last 10 years the state has been in a war environment, that it has been under sanctions and that it has been hit by aggression, and in these conditions we have gone to a reduction in the rate of contribution, if you remember, from 126 to 96%, looking for a way to leave the economy as much space as possible to restore production as possible, because we knew that if the economy is not healthy they are not worth any of our rates, they can be 200%, we can't charge them, and we can't fill that fund. We also forgot about a large number of refugees who have come to Serbia for the past 10 years and who, in turn, have received health insurance, or health care and care, regardless of their health insurance. Now, the Serbian government has not dared to increase the rates of contributions to health insurance, but rather resort to a drastic increase in the basis for the calculation and payment of contributions. Many employers will not be able to make such high contributions for the previous month by 30th, and it is an obligation to do so even if they haven't paid off their profits, so the question is whether the Serbian government wants to destroy the branch on which it sits, which is the economy. Of course, we're all interested in making the state of health better, in paying healthcare employees to be higher, to have health care institutions equipped with the necessary appliances and equipment, but I'll tell you what it looks like today, during DOS and DOS government. What's going on in health care? The director of a hospital in Belgrade is leaving for SMIP and is asking for help from the arrival of financial assistance from abroad. He says, he needs incubators, and the responsible face in the SMIP says, "Don't ask for money, money comes and goes, you don't know where it goes." That's what I'm saying because we MPs here don't know what's going on with the money that's coming. Someone here mentioned the $12.7 billion that came for this purpose and we expect to find out where they went one day. It's been told to that same director -- tell me exactly what you need from equipment, there are good people abroad, our people, who will get it, but they don't give it away, because the money's gone. The law therefore does not guarantee that more funds will be raised based on contributions to health insurance. The funds will be less, because the economy is in a much worse situation than it was last year, for example. The guarantee can only be higher employment, higher wages and investment in the country's economic recovery, and I don't see you taking any steps towards that. Therefore, it is the government's mistake to put tax laws and laws on the agenda first, instead of a bill that would allow for the consolidation of the economy. I have to add that a very small number of countries in Europe that have at all a fixed drug tax and orthopaedic aids, and also those that have those rates, do not reach a level greater than 6% to 7%, and that is 20%. That's what's unsustainable for our terms. You're constantly blaming some past government and finding some reasons for your poor condition in something that's gone past. There's probably a lot of what's been bad, there's a lot of gaps, there's both objective and subjective shortcomings, but now the material basis for functioning health is being provided by you and no one else. The budget's four times bigger than it was last year. However, you have an early deficit of 40 billion, as you will fill it with your concern, at the end of the year we will see what you have done, but then you will no longer be able to pronounce something that has been in the past. The government gentlemen are dealing with what is not in their jurisdiction and instead of conspiring, listening to each other, creating affairs even though there are no affairs and as soon as someone gets a lead on them, or as soon as they're surrounded by someone who can be tied to a crime, they're taking him out of office immediately. In this case they did it with Vuko Obradovic, and who's next we'll see very soon. You dig into other people's files, gentlemen, you scare the people, the people are already scared enough. Believe me, they see how unscrupulous you are and how ready you are for all sorts of lowness and repression.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6473	The word has a People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6474	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, none of us are living backwards, and none of us are going to be one day younger than one day older, and, like it or not, we're all getting closer to that period of our lives when we're both gonna need medical attention and medicine. No one in their right mind is against a health fund being full, but no one in their right mind thinks it's gonna fill up like this. Since the theft of a set of tax laws, we've come to the nakrad gross bases, and this gross base will produce as many unemployed as it would have, if the other employees had, been sufficient to fill this fund without increasing the tax base and the basis for contributions. This will happen especially in the private sector, as it is very easy for a private person to fire. We had in the previous non-democracy rate and contribution regime that burdened salaries with 96%. In this new democratic regime, it is over 100%, and they all covered it well, except for Mrs Matkovic, who wrote in the explanation, but only in her explanation is it in no other way, that on the salary of 2,400 total donations amount to 5.183 dinars. So over 100%. If we get to what the Minister of Labour has explained again, that the privatisation and transition process requires an even greater number of unemployed, here are the exact pictures of how much money the contributions will be poured into the health fund. Everything defends itself by what she's done, and I say she has, but it's not hard for you to see in the House Office who's signed all these so-called laws, so you'll see that a bunch of these laws, especially these, have been signed by no one else to your Deputy Prime Minister and the Police Minister, so you'll see that Serbia has not had since the period when New Democracy has been participating in power. They haven't been able to destroy what New Democracy has already ruined for its six-year reigns in two years. But who's to blame doesn't matter. What matters now is what we do. It's about how to fill the health funds. The important thing is how to make donations to health institutions, which you, again with your tax laws, have completely abolished. Here's what's going on. There were a lot of people, as we like to say, of goodwill, who helped health care institutions in sanity materials, appliances, medicines, disinfectants, food. And it was exempt from profit tax at an absolute amount. You've limited the untaxable share of your profit by your tax dollars. Well, now, if Bozidar Vucurovic wants to give the computer to the Institute of Neurology, he has to pay 20% of the tax on the computer, but he has to pay 20% of the profit tax, because it counts for -other incomes. Double taxation will also make that few people who have been aided by healthcare institutions turn their backs. On the other hand, by now you have produced about 100,000 unemployed, over 50,000, only your famous regulation, which has already been laid off by people from the Yugoslav river boating, from the shipping houses, where nearly 2,000 people, the owner of the tanks, are out of work, and each of these tanks is dragging at least three people. That's a minus in the Health Fund and minus in all other funds. What he doesn't do can't pay, and what he can pay, he'll be able to pay very briefly. Then you'll shut them down again, as it happens, for 90 days. No one has ever answered what will happen to me when the government as an employer fails to pay off contributions and salaries to workers. What kind of work inspector is going to shut down the government for 90 days? I know that someone is going to close it for five years, not all of it, but individually, but the unserious laws create unserious funds, and the non-serious funds create serious problems for people who depend on the services of the beneficiaries of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6475	The word is made by MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6476	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is another law in a package that accepts the gross principle of accounting. In Article 1 The Health Insurance Act is amended by Article 108b and reads as follows: "The basis on which the contribution is calculated and paid for the insurance companies referred to in Article 8(1) of the new law makes a profit, in accordance with the law, or collective contract". It is further determined how minimal the basis for certain tasks depends on the professional arrangement. In the light of the law, it is said, among other things, that in 2001 health services and health organisations will be reformed and that they will adapt to the country's opportunities, i.e. the economy. So, the government's intention is to fund health from real sources. Of course, the goal of all of us, the whole country, is to fund all social upgrades, including health care, from real sources. However, the question arises whether our economy at this point is even able to withstand all tax burdens, and then contribute to pension and health insurance, with the basics that are proposed, and in the end we have to count and earn employees. All this business is supposed to last at this point. But I don't need to remind you that our economic development in the last eight months doesn't go forward, it doesn't stand in place, it falls more and more every month. On the other hand, there is a health care that works in very difficult conditions. And difficult health conditions are conditioned by difficult conditions in the economy. So we have a vicious circle. The economy does not have enough money for health care, and health care does not provide adequate services to users, nor can it pay contributions even for itself. Of course, that vicious circle needs to be cut. As far as I can see, the government thinks they'll do it by filling or at least trying to fill the budget by post-poo. The government has not tried to solve the underlying cause, and this is a bad economy in our country. It's been said more than once here, but I'm going to repeat that the way out of a bad economic situation is to improve the economy. Therefore, the way out of a poor health situation is also an improvement in the economy. From what I have said so far, it follows that the government's first move should have been to create conditions and activate the economy, especially now that sanctions have been lifted, and only after that can it be expected to improve the material position and health workers. And not only that, but also improving working conditions and services for users. For these reasons, consideration should also be given to the height of the proposed bases and to adapt them to the current economic situation. It is only when the economy strengthens, that we can easily increase the basics and, of course, improve the conditions of functioning of the health service. The second serious objection concerns the criminal provisions provided for in Article 10(4), which provides that unless contributions are paid, the most drastic measure of the prohibition may be imposed by closing operations, i.e. a ban on carrying out operations for 30 to 90 days. I sincerely hope it doesn't reach out to this member of the law, but it's only hope. However, there are no guarantees. Accordingly, we need to review one more provision of this article, either abolish it, or specify -- special conditions and the way it is applied, otherwise we will be able to get into a situation where companies, which have otherwise paid contributions to social and pension insurance, due to their failure to work, will not be able to pay at the end of all these obligations, so the vicious circle I spoke about will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6477	The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6478	Dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I consider it necessary that as an MP from Kosovo and Metohija, I point to a few things that I think will be useful to the legislator, as well as to all MPs, for us who have so beautifully presented our unique position in the recent adoption of a declaration of state in Kosovo and Metohija. Today, we have a very important law, a bill on amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, which, as the case may be, is, in the reasons for the adoption of this proposal, the first step towards an upcoming reform in the field of health care, as well as the addition of the health insurance system. Until the war in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999, the health care and health insurance system worked, despite certain objective difficulties, in a completely satisfactory way. In all five districts in Kosovo and Metohija, there was a developed network, both specialised hospital and preventive protection. The territory of Kosovo and Metohija was paved by branches of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, and in smaller areas and their facilities through which insurance companies, regardless of national, religious or any other belonging, exercised their rights both in health care and health insurance rights. The end of the war in Kosovo and Metohija, in June 1999, the exorcising of a large number of our population from its centuries-old hearths, created a chaotic state, and in this difficult period for our people and the state, he lost a number of health workers. You know the case of an Albanian woman who committed an assassination in Pristina, a Pristina hospital, of a Serbian doctor, and a number of health workers were kidnapped. Unfortunately, among them is Professor Andrija Tomanovic, our former colleague, MP, humanist and man who has dedicated his entire working life to treating patients in Kosovo and Metohija, not asking for religious, national or any other belonging. Their fate is, unfortunately, unknown, but that's why some of the executioners, released from our prisons, are walking freely today through Kosovo and Metohija. I cannot help but point out the determination of the health workers of the Kosovo Health Centre Mitrovica, the House of Health Prilužje, the health care facility in Strpc, and many other institutions throughout Kosovo and Metohija, who, according to one of our distinguished fellow Members, have the heart of a lion and whose courage and determination is also one of the factors of the remnant and survival of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. It is time and place to also mention the efforts made by members of the republic's health ministry, members of the Yugoslav Committee for Co-operation with UNMIK and KFOR, who did not save themselves until the end of last year, putting themselves at risk and risking their lives, visiting institutions throughout Kosovo and Metohija, in order to remain Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. This brave and determined team of people was led by Dr. Periša Simonovic. Dear fellow MPs, except for the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, where health institutions function as before the war, in the remaining space health care provided to patients is unfortunately not adequate. Due to such a situation, a large number of Serbian citizens from Kosovo and Metohija, at high risk of personal security, exclusively benefit from medical assistance in the northern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica. Unfortunately, this health care facility is also unable to provide complete health care because, because of the difficult health situation, it is not equipped with medical devices for diagnostics, laboratories, and it needs additional professional labour. As a result, a large number of patients from Kosovo and Metohija were forced to continue treatment in other health institutions throughout Serbia. This is necessary because the pathology of the disease after the war has been extended, especially to mental patients, as well as various carcinogenic diseases. Thanks to health institutions throughout Serbia, the treatment of patients from Kosovo and Metohija has never been questioned. Despite certain problems, around charges, services, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are grateful to all health institutions and health workers on selfless assistance, which they have received over the past period, and I hope that will be the future. Unfortunately, the international community, which could help, is unable to address the problem adequately with the needs, and UNMIK and KFOR institutions, apart from certain conditions and pressures they put on health institutions and healthcare workers, aim only to prepare a new exodus of the Serb people. The other doesn't offer anything to bring the state of health into some kind of normal state. I hope that new amendments to the Health Insurance Act will find application in both Kosovo and Metohija, although it will be very difficult to implement because of the minimum conditions that exist there for such a thing now. First, because the economy is in a catastrophic state, and there is a small number of companies that can pay and pay off the projected basis that is calculated and that pay the contribution. Second, the competent services of payment and tax authorities are not able to force the collection to be carried out because they do not possess the executive power necessary for the implementation of the law of the envisaged obligations. And the collection of contributions could be partially applied, unfortunately, only in the part of the territory and the population that respects the laws of the Republic of Serbia, which are only Serbian environments, where the situation in the economy is most difficult, while in the larger area of the territory of this law the envisaged changes and additions cannot be implemented, because Serbia's laws are not being implemented there. So one of the questions to the government would be - what can he do about it? Therefore, it is necessary that the state authorities, in accordance with Security Council Resolution 1244, which we talked about at the previous, extraordinary session, be implemented primarily to ensure that the military and police return to Kosovo and Metohija as soon as possible, so that the legal system can operate in the province, because otherwise, all laws that are passed in the Republic of Serbia, will be "dead letter on paper", for old Serbia, i.e. for the province of Kosovo and Metohija. And the third question -- unfortunately, the minister is not here -- is the condition of everything being produced, so I'm interested in: how will the resources for normal health functioning be provided, if we know that the huge decline in industrial production is compared to last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6479	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6480	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 15 days ago I met a friend from Zagreb who works at the "Nikola Tesla" factory and tells me that a large number of young men from Operation "Plamen", "Fire" and "Storm" committed suicide. It's about 1,000 young men, and it also tells me that several thousand of them, those young men who participated in the operation, reported to a neuropsychiatrist for help. I am saying this to understand how important the area of health is, and I think all the MPs here today, in this assembly, and how we behave in this assembly (not often), what messages we send to each other, how much we insult each other, I think that many of us will seek help after some time with a neuropsychiatist. To say that, given the circumstances, I know health well enough. Not according to the profession, I'm in the business of something, but because two years ago I ran a big business, which is adaptation, reconstruction and upgrade of an internal hospital in the King, and of course, the equipment of that hospital, and then I met a lot of health problems and saw what problems these people are struggling with and how they are dealing with at all. That's why I'm saying - I don't think any of the MPs are criticizing here because they think they don't need these basics and some higher rate of application when it comes to health care and health care. This is about, in my opinion, that we're going in some way not the right way, but the wrong way. I'm afraid these rates that will be applied to this base don't shut down many companies, because I'm starting with the example that in the King we have the Magnochrom Car Factory, the Jasen Industry, that don't work at all. Until a while ago, Magnochrom worked, and now Magnochrom doesn't work. So I'm afraid the store isn't working, it's not doing anything, where we're going to provide these funds, and I'm saying that these funds that are going to be allocated to these bases won't be enough to meet the needs of health care. That's the problem, and I think we should look for some other ways, because closing down businesses, simply by firing workers, which will happen safely in the private sector, I don't think we're going to provide what we planned for the 2001 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6481	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6482	And with this addition and the amendment of the law, ladies and gentlemen, one question is, how realistic is this basis, and how realistic is it? Real in that part that the economy, as it is now, will be able to isolate and pay the rate of contributions that is calculated on this or on this basis. So far we haven't gotten a precise interpretation of whether the rate is calculated "in this base" or calculated "on this base". This condition is less important, how important it is that we have heard from the minister, (resolute minister whom we have been waiting for, with an explanation when this item of the agenda has been postponed, that the minister is coming and waiting for the minister's presence), frankly we, the Serbian radicals, expected the minister to say: yes, gentlemen, this rate is realistic, based on some parameters or simulation of the situation that will take place in the economy, will be able to fill the budget, i.e. funds to be filled at the height of so much and so much funds. These funds will serve to address currently the burning health problems. It would be normal for us Serbian radicals to expect one minister. However, unfortunately, with full understanding that we are all human, we can all sin, but the minister is a man who, by his participation in government, who, by his work, and especially in public appearances, must bear a certain degree of responsibility. The minister cannot ignore this proposal to amend and supplement the law, in order to take advantage of this speaker's opportunity to, by throwing out political pamphlets, accuse the previous authorities and political parties involved in the government, and to help him run to members of the DOS, authority, blanko, to the unseen, as it would say, accuse individuals. That's the easiest. To go out for this pay phone, to call someone who took part in power, and that was Milovan Bojic, who is also on the loose today, and to say from this pay phone that he was blamed, that he was on the run, that he should be responsible for crime. We all know that words spoken from this pay phone do not withdraw any responsibility. The responsibility remains with the minister, as the assistance coming from the DOS can be interpreted as parliamentary competition. To be honest, most of them are disappointed with the reasons given by the minister. Wouldn't it be normal for the minister to say that the current material situation in health care is this, if this is the basis and if Parliament adopts this basis, the material situation, when it comes to health institutions, will improve in this way and in this way. Or, the material situation of the health workers themselves, who can't wait to hear from the minister what their future is, what their perspective is, or those who are directly bound as patients to this area, to hear how much this separation and this basis will contribute to the cost of medical services. That would be something normal to expect the minister to answer. However, the minister ignores all this. He's going into action, he's starting a roll call, he's starting the drug supply story, and he's not finishing that story. He's leaving us all in doubt. What's life, what's reality, what's reality, and that's when the resolute minstar raised the question, that the drugs were expensive -- why did they collect? No logical, no normal explanation. The argument is, it's not the Republic government's fault, the federal government made that decision. No explanation, no word, and what about the deficit drugs, how much this will improve the situation in the supply of drugs, how much the overall or overall situation and everything that happened at Galenika has affected the supply of medication. This is either half the story is being kept quiet or semi-official, or off the record, as the information later states. Is Galenika finally returned under government authority? Is "Galenica" a normal situation? What about that repromaterial that was found in large and vast quantities, imported from China? Where's that repromatter, if it's in Galenica, is it being implanted in drugs? Why not make medicines at Galenica, which are mandatory under a contract signed with the Serbian government once by Milan Panic. It's either that or the answer is nothing. Not only for the assembly speaker, but they also use every opportunity in the means of public information, they try and try to make this kind of situation, as is currently in the health care sector when it comes to the situation of the institutions and the health workers themselves, and especially when it comes to the supply of medicines, even more delayed, so that no one can understand what is happening, what is happening in Serbia as regards health care, in terms of the supply of medicines. We know how it was. You don't have to call on that. It was bad. Therefore did the people punish those who were in power. But the people voted for DOS hoping it would get better. That hope is backed up with pre-election promises. It has been said that the borders will be open, the supply of drugs, will be normalised, the position of medical staff and workers will be improved, health conditions will be raised to a higher level. That's not gonna happen. In addition to the part where humanitarian aid is directly conditioned to invest in health care, and it does not invest, nor does this government try to improve toasting. We will not, gentlemen, pray and wait for help from abroad, so that doctors can get the basics for their work. There's a part of the justification for that period, when patients themselves had to buy bandages and medications, and strings, and instruments even some, when it comes to surgery. That time is partly justified by the international blockade. What now? There's no international blockade now. What is the situation in health care, when compared to the conditions in which this government lives and operates over the past period, is a much worse reality. Wherever you want and wherever you're making comparisons, but it doesn't serve the ruling coalition to maybe ask your minzitre to speak fully responsiblely, maturely from this pay phone or to present the situation as it is in health care. Or, seeing him as a resolute minister, he's already being served, but that's what DOS is for individuals to come out here for a pay phone, to give embarrassing examples, citing examples that no normal man, a humanist, would allow himself to speak from this pay phone. You can imagine how much the consciousness of individuals who, even after being denied from this pay phone, by Serbian radicals, do not find it appropriate to apologize. Is it a great sin if he accidentally made a mistake, if someone gave him the wrong information about a man who was fictitiously being employed, is it some big mistake to come out and apologize, not to the MPs of the SRS, but to the guy who was being talked about, but the head of the parliamentary group has to take out hot chestnuts, and still the individuals in DOS think they did everything, that they dominated this speaker, if they set one example, and that's the one that doesn't need it. There may be many more examples to speak from this pay phone, but it should always try to be true, no matter who it is, no matter who's responsible. Once again, I urge and call upon my colleagues from the majority coalition to influence their ministers in the future, when they come out of this pay phone, at least essentially let them do that text in the light of the bill's amendments learn, if nothing else, then at least memorize it. That'll be enough. We'll be satisfied, not entirely, but we know who it's about, that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6483	Anybody else answer for a word? This is a falsified leaf. It's Latin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6484	Whose alphabet is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6485	It's not official. Latina is not used in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6486	Read what it says.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6487	I don't know how to read that. It says something -- the Serbian Radical Party is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6488	I think it's better that you used this time, that it doesn't turn out after Janjic gives some misinformation again, that you inform this assembly what's going on and what the facts of the war are in southern Serbia, that it doesn't turn out after I spread some misinformation, and that you inform us to the end of the assembly, because the information is really scary. What Mr. Covic was saying last night is simple lies, because my personal friend from Surdulica, a reserver, was injured yesterday. He said no one was hurt. It's lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6489	Mr. Janjic, please don't really use the pay phone like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6490	You inform yourself, so let us know what's going on there, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6491	This is an orderly abuse of a pay phone. You're saying something that not only has nothing to do with the agenda, it's really embarrassing. That's not how you do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6492	It had nothing to do with the agenda that my application was written in Latin or Cyrillic, I believe both letters are Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6493	Of course they are, except that they are in use in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by decision made from the time you were in power, to use only Cyrillic in the official files.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6494	Once we're back in power, we'll do the same thing again, and that'll be very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6495	Please move to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6496	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after so many speakers to say something new is simply impossible. I went out for this pay phone... You just laugh, you don't laugh at me, you laugh at voters who gave you votes. [[Laughter in O.R.]] They're looking at you now, and they're sorry they chose you like that. I didn't come out here to deal with someone slow about the effects of such an amended and updated Health Insurance Act. The effects will, unfortunately, be catastrophic for both patients and for the health care workers. I'm surprised the minister, who's probably a doctor, is pushing for the wrong treatment, so the patient, or health care, is going to get worse. Healthcare needs urgent care and that, both for employees and for the subsidisation of the pharmaceutical industry in order to make medicines cheaper and more accessible to citizens. If someone was stealing a health money, they need to prove it and condemn him the strictest. As of October 5th, the DOS gentlemen have been controlling all the funds, and the situation is getting worse and worse. Does this mean that you gentlemen are now intransparently stealing more and more, or are you incompetent? Besides, it doesn't matter to patients whether you're incompetent or you're stealing anymore, you won't be long anyway. It's important for them to be cheaper, healthcare professionals better paid, and the equipment is fixed, because a large number of appliances are malfunctioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6497	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6498	There's a guy stuck to that application, probably from a banknote that Nenad Canak makes, of 225 new dinars. In the reasons for law-making, the proposer says: "How in 2001 is the implementation of health insurance reform in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the health system, with the aim of bringing the level of public spending in line on the macro-economic plan... "and so on. It is said that only in 2001 will a new complete law be passed, and this is only the first part of these changes and changes expected. All the laws we've passed in this year have this kind of explanation. Why didn't you wait until the law was complete, to offer a whole set of laws that would be a more permanent solution to what the billmaker is proposing today? I think it's already become a manners, a practice. How long will it take? Maybe in June or July we'll be passing new laws. What changed in the meantime? Whatever law we pass, something collects, something costs us more. They were also talking about the drug collection, about the collection of electricity and everything that started to accumulate since you came to power. Here, the other day the minister visited Nis. He went to the clinic, complained it was those predecessors, there's no money at the moment, and there's nothing new. We expect at least something to get better, so we don't wear bandages anymore, we don't wear drugs, we don't buy injections when we go to the doctor. There's no change. The visit of the minister ended, of course, as in the previous period, lunch or dinner, and the minister, instead of offering these people some hope, to tell them what would happen, just said -- it would be difficult and we have to be patient. So where's the donation money, then where's the help we get, supposedly, every day? I suggest that in the future you do not propose such half-laws, but that you gather them all together in one place and that when you offer the law, it is a complete solution. Because you were saying that you have finished laws, that you have the best personnel, and now I'm reading in the paper, says Djindjic -- we weren't humanely prepared to take power, because we miss a lot of frames. If you miss the staff, do not bring instructions, as was done in Nis in the selection of school principals. The condition is that no candidate for director should be a member of the JUL, the SPS or the SRS. Don't party to people. Here, Adzic laughs, but I don't think he agreed to it either.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6499	We're talking about health care, not schooling.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6500	You're funny, Mr. President, and I'm just comparing it to...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6501	With schooling.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6502	That's right, with schooling. Therefore, try to include other professional people, do not be so exclusive and that only someone who has yesterday or before the party book, some of the parties currently in power, create and make such laws. This confirms, what I keep saying is - DOS is really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-14-0.u6503	Anybody else answer for a word? I'm not making you. If you don't, I'll close the search in principle. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act in principle. For 115, against 44, with no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 163 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We've got ten minutes to break up, I suggest... Do you agree? So that it wouldn't be after the complaint that I unauthorizedly interrupted the session 10 minutes before the end. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 129 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the absence has been reported by the following MPs: Ljubisa Đoković, Dusan Budišin, Željko Tomić, Ratimir Svirčević, Milos Radivojčević, Petar Misic, Sava Popadić, Dragisa Đoković, Vuk Antonijević, Marko Jakšić, Nenad Bogdanović, Dragisa Marinković, Ljubodrag Grbić, Anton Biac, Dragn Šutanovc, Vojislav Doshen, Igor Soldatović, Teodora Vlahović, Sredoje Mihajlov, Branislav Pomorijski, Sljjan Sikimuć, Velimir Živojinović, Stanko Kovačević and Ljubisa Kesić. In the morning they are absent: Mihajlo Jagodić, Pal Shandor, Natasa Milojevic and Milorad Stanulov, the afternoon - Vladan Jovičić, and Milos Lučić and Milutin Svetinovic announced a delay. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 15th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completions of the Health Insurance Law (specificity) Since we adopted the draft law at yesterday's session in principle, I am opening a review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act in particular. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Minister of Health, Mr Obren Joksimovic.
