ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11093	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to the official record of the MPs who reported their presence, 132 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units, please. I also find that by applying the electronic system, we have officially reported that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the absence has been announced by the following MPs: Zaharija Trnavčević, Dragan Marcić, Natasa Mićić, Slobodan Tomović, Teodora Vlahović, Aleksandar Krstić, Bojan Pajtic, Višnja Nežić, Petar Misić, Branislav Pomorički, Vladan Jovičić, Živica Predojev, Anton Biac, Atila Juhas, Miroslav Martic, Olgica Kircanski, Natasa Milojevic and Jelena Milenković. In the morning, Predrag Bajcetic was absent, and Boris Karadzic announced a delay. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - I would like to remind the MPs that at yesterday's session, the preliminary presentation of the bill was submitted by Prof. Dr. Dragoslav Šumarac, Minister of Urbanism and Building. We have limited the time for discussion in principle according to this agenda point to 5 minutes. The debate was attended by Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group and Slobodan Pavlovic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, who used the right to address representatives, or president of parliamentary groups, saying three times a minute. The word is made by the MP Stanko Kovacevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11094	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, since this is the last item of the agenda of this extraordinary session, and since we have already had a good part of the debate in principle and that we are about to conclude the debate in principle and debate in particular, I suggest that the Assembly decide that we are working today until the end of the agenda, no matter how long it takes. Tomorrow is Petrovdan, for many it is the glory, and it is our turn to receive a well-deserved holiday for such intensive work. (Employer Stamenkovic, from the place: What did you deserve? ).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11095	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. Anybody else answer for a word? (No). I am putting on the vote by MP Stanko Kovacevic on extending the session of the National Assembly until the end of this eighth item of the agenda, in principle and in particular. For 75, against 34, with four abstentions, did not vote 45, out of 158 MPs. I find that, until the next proposals, today's session under the Rules of Procedure will be held until 7:30, if we do not have proposals from the MPs. I have visualally non-verbal communication about the fact that some MPs were not hearing. It's perfectly natural, if 162 human beings in one room produce noise of 15 decibels, then noise is produced multiplied by it and it's perfectly natural not to hear it. So it's up to the MPs to do whether we're going to do a session of the National Assembly or we're going to make noise in each other's conversations. There is no way to make that decision, except by your own free will. Does any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups come forward in the debate on the principle of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on the Construction of Objects? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Dejan Mihajlov, as president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11096	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS MPs will support the bill and we believe that this is one in a series of measures that does not address the issue of wild construction and illegal construction in Serbia, but simply a partial solution that should be first in a series of solutions that will follow to address this major problem in Serbia's construction. This is an immediate solution, which should be stopped, if at all possible, regardless of all that awaits us, regarding wild construction in Serbia. This is actually the result of one condition that lasts for years, the procedure is completely ineffective and slow, the procedure is more than complicated and simply kills any will to those who want to invest, to respect, hence the construction process is delayed and they are looking to end it in other ways. That's how we got that we have a lot of illegal and wild objects, and whether it's housing, whether it's small-scale buildings and businesses. The blame for one such condition is right on the side of the legislator, who for years tolerated this state, who did nothing to change it. In many municipalities in Serbia, GUPS (general urbanist plans), there are no regulatory plans, there is not all that is needed to comply with the procedure for issuing construction permits. Small powers of inspection services, a process of destruction that is extremely expensive, insufficiently dissuading funds for the destruction of wildly built objects, are all the conditions for which we have wild construction. The responsibility of those who did or did not implement these laws in the previous years has led to the fact that we have entire settlements built in places where we can't, we have factories built on pipelines and other infrastructures. That puts us in a situation right now that you're breaking something. Then a new problem opens up, if we crash, what we're going to do with the existing one, if we're going to turn someone black, if we're going to destroy what's his source of income. So today's state of affairs that we have is very bad. We're going to solve problems that the previous government didn't have to or didn't want to deal with and which simply ruled from year to year, tolerated wild construction and thus made some political points for itself. In fact, it has done a great deal of damage to the citizens of Serbia and to all municipalities, local self-governments that are now facing a major problem. A particularly complicated process of obtaining consent, Mr. Minister Šumarac mentioned, needs to be adjusted as much as possible. The laws and accompanying acts that govern this area need to be changed. It is necessary to make the procedure quick and efficient, where everything will be resolved in one place, to increase the local self-government's competences maximum, in the area of inspection supervision and to give the authority to local self-governments to control inspection controls. That way, maybe we could do something. The Democratic Party of Serbia will accept, as I said, this law, but only as one solution to stop wild construction. What's more important to us, it's that this whole area is being arranged differently. I would also like the minister and the government to set a deadline within which a complete, overall solution of this area will come, where they will suggest that they see that this area should be arranged, that it should look like a procedure and perhaps end one phase and one step in issuing a building permit. Will it be urban conditions that may be an unnecessary stage in the process of issuing a building permit and thus resolve this issue? What would be very bad is that in this way every construction in Serbia is stopped, that investment construction is stopped, and that is what should never be allowed. A temporary solution should be found to allow the construction to continue in Serbia, on the one hand. On the other hand, we need to go into seduction. Perhaps an administrative decision should also order that all municipalities must build new gouts, that it must move into the making of regulatory plans, so that the whole of Serbia, for the next few years, because it is a big job, may look like an up-to-date state with up-to-date documentation. Especially a major problem are land books, where they exist, which have not been restored. I think we should start to rebuild the land books, because the entire settlements are built, and in land books, they run like meadows in the village or pastures in the village. We find that inadmissible. There is no precise record in many places around the infrastructure, whether it is gas pipelines, where we are expected to build a more detailed pipeline network, whether there are other infrastructure facilities. We view this as the beginning of stopping wild construction, and I would like the government, and the foreign minister, to have a deadline within which it can create a comprehensive procedure, to make a proposal for a new draft to issue building permits. This is how to prepare the arrangement of this area. So much for the first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11097	There is a word from MP Milutin Svedovic, followed by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11098	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, as a member of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, I would like to say a few words about this problem of wild construction that is large, acute and there is no need to stress the urgency of introducing order into this area. Yesterday we heard two speakers from the opposition who spoke and touched some topics that were not regulated by this bill on building buildings. But, mentioned once again, it is only a proposal to amend and supplement the law. The proposed changes are taken from the practices of some countries that know the term of illegal construction. And on that side, it's not very special news. The proposed measures shall only introduce restrictions. Penalties are tightening and criminal responsibility is being committed to some of the participants in the business. The state, or relevant authorities, must also accept part of its responsibility. Consistency also requires the introduction of criminal responsibility for investors who in their area of responsibility do not do business in the way they should do it, i.e. if they do it in a non-quality manner. It happens that authorized bodies for issuing a building permit have not responded for months. The period within which the authorised authority is obliged to address the party, for example, for a maximum period of two months from the time of submission of the complete necessary documentation. And in the event of an overrun, a permit must be deemed to have been issued. So it should be limited to the time limit of the whole process. And after that, the responsible person who is required to carry out this procedure should be called upon to be responsible. Generally, procedures are now too complicated, too slow and not clear enough. The Ministry of Urbanism and Building, as competent and responsible for the situation in the area, must soon come before the MPs with clearly defined and enforceable procedures. First, the building permit must be issued in one place, within a short period of time and must be given consent under official duty. Second, clearly defined views, procedures and instructions on the recovery of the existing state in space and illegal construction. The third is to define steps to address the current urban problems. Fourthly, to bring out clear procedures for the application of the proposed amendments to the law. How will it be determined which objects are started before the law is passed? What about starting objects, some constructions, constructions, that sort of thing? Only after defining the above mentioned, with a clear dynamic of realization, will it be possible to talk seriously about organised and systematic introduction of order into space. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, with it previously insisting on paying attention to these principles in passing a new law, and it must be passed soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11099	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11100	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the limitation of the discussion to five minutes is the degradation of this Parliament. I think it's the absolute terror of the ruling majority. Reasons about rationality fall into the water and turn out to be ridiculous, because if the ruling majority wanted rationality, it would force its government to propose the right laws, not to propose pointless laws, that for five days we here discuss the Law of Salaries, five days you convince us about the quality of this law, and then the Government stops applying. I think it would be a fundamental order for the government to apologize to all MPs, its MPs and MPs of the ruling majority. But this government doesn't learn from mistakes. Despite a series of pointless laws, this is one of the senseless, if not the most senseless laws. If you have listened carefully to the previous two speakers and if you review the stenograms, anyone normal who examines the stenograms, the whole discussion of previous speakers goes to the fact that these laws should not be adopted, because they were perfectly correct and correctly talking about the reasons for illegal construction. But in the end, they suggested that we pass a law that will make the citizens go to jail for someone else's guilt. Ladies and gentlemen, you seem to be suffering from victim-to-guilty syndrome. It's becoming a manners to you. Because these stories show exactly who are responsible for the illegal construction, and you can see exactly who will be the victim. So on one side are the culprits, and the victims are citizens on the other side. So, because of the guilt of the municipality, because of the guilt of municipal bureaucracy, because of the indetermination of the law, we have 900,000 unequivocally built objects. (A voice from the O.R.: In what cities? Gentlemen, in cities where you have been in power for six years, from Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Užica, Valjev, Chačka and others. So, in cities where you're in charge of wild construction. The culprits are on one side, and the victims will be on the other side. You're suggesting that a builder, without a primary school, who's walled on illegal construction goes to jail for a year, that he who invests goes to prison for three years. Since in our terms often a citizen and the wall itself, if you bring him the punishment, he will go for a year because of the wall and three years because he invests. So he's going to go to jail for four years. Ladies and gentlemen, there are four years in this area for murder. Personally, I don't believe Mr. Schumarac proposed this law, because he's a man of science and profession. This is someone who pushed him or was believed to be someone, I'm not going to tell you who ordered this law from here. To believe that such a law will prevent wild construction, at least a little bit, is the same as believing that marriage law will ensure a good and harmonious marriage. Ladies and gentlemen, the reasons for the illegal construction are entirely on the other side. Absolute perpetrators of illegal construction are local self-government and municipal authorities. Mr. Schumarac has not announced that every 104 citizens, who have applied for permission, have been granted a permit. So 103 citizens didn't get permission. I'm going to tell you an example of a large city of 100,000 inhabitants, a modern, large and good city, in which 8 citizens have been granted a building permit in the last year. Do you think that's how we stop wild construction? (loud from the O.R.: In what city? In Kruševec, 8 citizens received the right building permit. Therefore, this problem should be addressed extremely seriously. You don't need to stick your head in the sand. There's a lot of people here from the profession, there's a lot of lawyers, there's a lot of presidents of municipalities who know the right conditions of construction. I advocate that we finally go seriously, call things a real name, do a comprehensive law on housing, a law that will not be based on terror, a law that will not condemn citizens for a year and three years in prison, and in conditions where there is no guilt of the citizens. Why doesn't the Department of Construction come out with clear data, by cities -- how much is the request? I'm going to tell you again that Kruševac has a 984 recovery request, at least 50% of which meets all the conditions for recovery. Resuscitation is hard to get, because bureaucracy has taken matters into its own hands. The most dangerous bureaucracy is in the building license departments. It's easier to build a house, easier to secure money than to get a building permit. I believe there are people among you who have obtained a building permit. I believe you'd rather face the seventh-headed angel than re-trigger the building permit. (President: 5.30 minutes. ) This suggests that such problems require much more serious access to our government. Ladies and gentlemen, by adopting a law like this, we will only build prisons in which we will place our citizens who are illegally building. And maybe we need jails, because Batic promised to renovate the prisons. I think he should do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11101	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11102	We've been misread, and Mr. Soldovic, who's also mentioned, won't speak, so on behalf of both of us, I'm going to say the line. We talked a lot about guilt here. The culprits are the ones who have tolerated such a condition all these years. The laws, by procedure and by all means, cannot be passed by the congregation, but only by the Republic. That's one thing. Second, why did you stop rebuilding your land books? At what stage is this, and everything else that is related to the coordination of procedures and the work of municipal services and housing departments in this area? Of course, there are a lot of gaps in the work of these services and because of this complicated procedure, one procedure that is too long, that moves away from issuing permits, asking for consent and everything else, that these services have just been the subject of corruption, and one who has had more money could sooner get a license, who has paid more, and the ordinary citizen, who wanted to do everything legally, has been waiting for that license for years, and eventually doesn't get it. I don't want to amnesty the municipal administrations out of responsibility, because there's a responsibility with them. But it is precisely the responsibility most in this congregation, which has not been addressed by the problems of wild construction in earlier years. This is for me, and I expect the government to commit itself to this assembly, to start solving the problem of wild construction, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to edit the area of building buildings in an adequate and modern way, so that the procedure and the area will be simplified and regulated. Gentlemen, it's your responsibility. Where were those suggestions these years? Don't accuse the municipal administration of not passing laws. We can't pass the laws and we can't edit the procedure. He has responsibilities, but there is too much responsibilities in this assembly, which should be the driver of all actions in the state's regulation. This is an important area. If we want to develop and if we want to encourage economic development, we need to edit this area and simplify the procedure, to open up to private investment that does not want them to be granted a building permit, which will last for a year, to be an obstacle to investment and making profits and therefore to flee to other municipalities or other countries. Gentlemen, the responsibility is on you and on the municipal administrations. It's up to us to handle this. No matter who he is or where he is or what he's done, let's see how we move on. That's what's important. I would like it to be the fruit of this debate today and all the other debates in this area. (Sava Popadic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11103	What's the basis for the replica? (Sava Popadić, from the place: mentioned Kruševac. That's not the basis for replication. (Sava Popadić, from the place: He mentioned the administration of which I am a member. ) Nor is that based on the Rules of Procedure. You have mechanisms like all the other MPs. Please, we all respect the obligation to bring facts to this speaker and how to use the replicas. The People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word, followed by MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11104	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Madam Chairman, respected journalists, this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Construction of Objects is another attempt to put an end to fires in an effort to ensure that illegal construction does not exist, because if there is a wild, there is a pie, there is, that some objects, which are built in this way, are legalized, if possible, and that the rest of the objects are destroyed. Of course, this second one will never be possible, no matter how many such facilities are in Serbia, given the amount of financial resources invested in these facilities, because at least 50% of the population in Serbia's cities live today and because in several thousand buildings today some people are carrying out their business activities. I agree with those who have said that the problem is complex and I will not talk about the consequences of this amendment and the addition of the Law, for those individuals or business entities who decide to move towards building illegal objects after the adoption of this law, but I will talk about those objects that have been built before, which, as several members of the Amendment Law and the additions of the Law on the Construction of Objects, can have consequences that practically mean destruction. I would like to say that in the last few decades, because of significant migration from the village to the cities, because of the inability of these towns to adequately meet the needs of the population for living space, a large number of citizens have decided to deal with the issue of roofing, for themselves and their family in such a way. In the last 10 years, a large number of people have also decided to build a certain space, a building space that will serve commercial purposes, for the activities they want to deal with. If we were to put an end to all this today, if all this were to cease to exist, only in Chačka would it be without a job of 3.5 to 4,000 people. So it's not easy to solve this problem. Here in Article 2, which you are proposing, which is in accordance with Article 43, which is proposed that these facilities cannot obtain the consent to join all those capacities, municipal, electricity, telephone, etc. You know, this is questionable, or this brings some basic rights that a man has. If someone wants to have a phone connection in their field or a light bulb in their field, I don't see who can forbid it and why would they defend it. If that can already happen, how can someone be banned from getting a water connection because water is a little different from the phone and other things that are mentioned here? So this can't be done without you having the consequences of the revolution. You cannot pass today a law that will result in the dissatisfaction of several hundred and thousands of citizens in Serbia who because they either did not have enough financial resources or enough understanding with local administrations, and because it was simply not possible to build on some areas that had already been built, did what they did. But, of course, we'd be the happiest if every town could be created like Brazil, in a big space, in an infrastructure project, and in all the facilities that are necessary, then the city is built. This is not possible in conditions where industrialisation, for example in Serbia, where for the last few decades, has simply driven the population from villages to cities. That is why I think that the law should have a different approach when it comes to objects that have already been built and that should be treated differently, i.e. I agree that in full, in accordance with what you are proposing, those objects that occur at the moment that they occur or are adopted. So that's two different things. If we're going to iron something that's a bit of a problem, we can't get that man who's done everything he can over the past few decades, deprive him of his phone connection, of all these other things, and, if he doesn't, to put him in jail. There's another problem here, it's said to be moving the face out of an object that's been illegally built, and then if it comes back, it closes. So we punish a man who has an illegal object, then we forced him out of it, and when he moved back in, we put him in jail. That thing can't work, otherwise this law will withdraw from the procedure, as well as the laws you pulled the other day, even though we said he wouldn't survive, and neither will he, if he was adopted as suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11105	The word is by MP Branimir Trajkovic, followed by Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11106	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ministers, this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Objects, it is only one part of one general matter in the construction of buildings and in order to combat the prevention of illegal construction, and since the criminal provisions in the law have not changed, it has proved necessary to make appropriate changes. The existing legal solutions did not give the expected results, so there was a need to provide for adequate criminal-legislative standards in the law. In Article 52, and I would have one remark, and I would like to ask that, in one other part, I will now quote, says this: "A natural person who is an investor or a responsible person in a legal person who is an investor of a building, without a building permit." That's where you should add - or the opposite of a building permit. It goes on to say, "it's going to be punishable for a felony in prison of up to three years." This correction is necessary because it narrows down the ability to manipulate those persons who have such a building permit, and they drastically deviate from the urban permit and urban conditions they have given. I think we fully understand that someone who's got a 200-square permit makes 2,000 squares, that it has to be sanctioned, and that's why it might be necessary to insert that member. In Article 3, where the basics of fines are mentioned, I believe that this range is too large and that perhaps in part of the basics we should raise something to reduce that difference. I would also advocate strict control of construction contractors who do not have a license for these jobs. In that part, too, these fines should be increased. It is necessary to turn the issue of protection of citizens who want to build, and they have been waiting for years or months for a building permit. In most Serbian cities, there are no regulatory plans for certain urban districts. Whether the issue of poor coordination with the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism or its own weakness is the fact that citizens are damaged. By taking over power in Serbia's municipalities, in October of last year, we also took terrible losses. The Directorate for Urbanism in Krusevec inherited about 40m debt, not counting the obligations that the Directorate had towards the construction land users, in terms of infrastructure building. Those obligations and those debts were over 100 million dinars. It was one counselling, and it was a burazer privilege, or should I say such a policy where urban or construction permits were issued, perhaps, and without control. Now the opposition is suing the government for inefficient work, they say, few licenses have been issued. That's right, and we need to get over it right now. With one more flexible move from the building ministry with local self-government in the coordination part, I think it can be removed. That way, this addition of the law would be much more complete. Anyway, the construction mob has to stop and that's why I think this law supplement is in place. All you need to think about is the treatment of starting objects, their size and purpose and the time it started. The Democratic Party of Serbia and I will accept this amendment to the law, with a small application for technical correction from Article 52a. At the end of his presentation, one speaker yesterday from this pay phone said that we do not have more than 4% of our voters' votes in DOS. On Sunday, July 8th, the Koonik Election Unit in the Kruševac municipality was re-election for a council seat. Candidate Rodoljub Janicevic is a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia, ahead of the DOS -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica won 73% of the vote. His opponent from the SPS won 18% of the vote, while Serbia's Radical Party candidate third had 4.5% of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11107	I ask the MP not to include the election report in the speech content.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11108	A total of 405 voters voted. I won't comment on the results, and you can judge for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11109	The People's MP Predrag Mijailovic has the word, followed by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11110	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amending and supplementing the Construction Act. This law should be supported and voted for in any case. The reason for this is that we need to stop illegal construction, stop the construction mafia and go into construction, introduce order in this area, as is the order in all other countries in the world. Members of the United States, first of all from the former ruling structure, which are now in opposition, we are a little different from you, because all the previous laws that came only boasting, voting, and you asked none of your government to correct them. As an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, I have said that I will vote and that my parliamentary group will vote for this law, but at the same time we believe that this law is not complete and that it does not solve problems fully, and therefore we ask the government to do so as quickly as possible, so that we from the Democratic Party of Serbia do not propose these changes and complements. First of all, we see criminal measures, and everywhere in the world there are and should exist, those who are guilty should be punished, but at the same time the state must give citizens something, to allow them at the same time to show that they must respect the state, and so that the state and government respect first and foremost those citizens. So, as soon as possible to pass a law on a detailed urban plan, in which it has to be regulated exactly, and when a man gets a building permit that can be joined after a certain time, not given a building permit, his money is taken, and tomorrow he has no sewers, no water, and he complains about the third. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that is not how we can do it, or the government can't do it in the future, if we think we're doing it. We can't do what they used to do, and for a year or two, you can't get a license, and when you get a license, then you spend time, money, and the will to build a house, and when you build a house, you don't even have a connection, you don't have a sewer. So we can't do this anymore and we from the Democratic Party of Serbia will never support such a government unless it does so in the future. We know it's a short time, but the time since five or six months isn't long, but it's too long to wait, because stopping construction itself stops and invests and there's no progress in the country. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I will uphold this law and hope that the government will come out at the autumn session in September with these proposals for a comprehensive law. I would like to point out to the Minister, we must urgently put into this law an exact regulation, in which way the lawless objects should be resolved so far, because otherwise local self-government will certainly try to solve them in its own way and that some people would not be in a privileged position, a more favourable position in one city, and in another city damaged, depending on the sympathy of these local powers, regardless of who they belong to, whether current or former structure. So, there's always a local power man who can be born if you give him the opportunity to be born.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11111	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and after that, MP Tomislav Panajotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will, as someone who has worked in inspection bodies, in construction inspection, and at the issuing of building permits, recommend that you withdraw this law from the procedure, because it is an absolutely inappropriate moment to be brought in, and we have had enough promises that all laws are temporary character, to wait for September, October, November, November, so we will fully regulate that matter in the way the DOS thinks. In your explanation, you make it clear what the law's purpose is. It is the suppression and prevention of illegal construction, i.e. construction of buildings and construction of works without a building permit. So it's not just a question of building new objects, it's an upgrade, reconstruction, upgrade and so on. However, you say that existing legal solutions have not yielded the expected results, which is true, but to ask ourselves why. First of all, due to the ineffectiveness of local self-government authorities. And don't forget, I will only talk about the city of Belgrade, the authorities in Belgrade, in the past term and in this, some of the present, the Together Coalition, which took part, the Democratic Party, the Civil League, the Serbian Renewal Movement, and we know what urban chaos has been created in the last four years. In the last four years, buildings have been built on parcels that are intended for individual residential construction, and in fact they are the six-ways and so on, and you know that it is Voždovac, Žarkovo, Chukarica and how the authorities reacted. However, inspection bodies should not be blamed. The inspection bodies always finish their part of the job, and when it comes to deciding what to do with it, it is on the executive bodies of the local government and they decide on it. It is not a rare case that building permits have been obtained for such facilities, even used permits. You know exactly what a tariff costs. I'm going to tell you now how much the Zemun municipality costs, say, to get a home number, and that's about this article 1 that you're proposing here. He says, "The building facility, that is, whose construction is completed without a building permit cannot be connected to the power grid, and the telecommunications network, the plumbing and sewerage." How's that been so far? You go to the municipality, fill out one request, bring in a copy of the plan, urban conditions and ask for a home number. Based on that home number, you get other permits. This home number today in the municipality of Zemun costs 1,000 marks, and if you wait, if your official prolongs to get a home number of months, two or three, you are at a clear loss and you cannot start building an object. That's what it looked like. This is about Article 1. Article 2 or new Article 52a, first position, is totally unsustainable. You're saying that an entrepreneur, who's a contractor, or a responsible person in a legal person who's a contractor of an object being built, without a building permit, will be punished for a crime in prison for up to a year. What it means -- you're, say, an investor, you want to start building an object, you've given all the paperwork to the municipality, you're waiting to get a building permit, but time goes by your hand, you want to do it before the rain, before the fall to make the foundation. You're calling an entrepreneur -- let's start working, settle for a price, and he's a martyr, knowing now that he has to ask you for a building permit, he says -- do you have a building permit, pal? He says I don't. When are you going to win? I don't know. Well, there's nothing to do. So we basically stopped the construction, made it impossible for people who are doing craft work to build objects, because they have to wait for the administration to do their job. And that -- 30 or 60 days, waiting for a building permit, that's just on paper. A building permit sometimes waits for a year and two years. Perhaps not in smaller municipalities, but in Belgrade it is because the City of Belgrade Department of Urbanism is in charge and it provides urban services, urban permits, urban consent. So when you finish everything you need, you have a project, and all possible consent, you get a seal on the project that your project is in line with urban conditions, and only then you get a building permit, based on which you can start working. Not to mention the use of permission - never the first solution is positive. There's always some flaw, which the investor has to remove, so it's taking just as long, and you're predicting here, if an object that doesn't have the permission to move in, then the same sentence is foreseen. It's just amazing. I am sorry that you have set five minutes for this law to discuss, because it is very important, it is of interest to the citizens of Serbia, and we are unable to tell them what awaits them here. I've only got 30 seconds left to extend the hearing, regarding the destruction of the facility. Imagine, two-thirds of Zemun doesn't have a regulation plan. The facility's broken down. They're prone to fall. The investor would like to restore it, or he found the investor and he wants to rebuild it -- he can't, because he can't get a building permit, and you still want to throw him out, or you want to give him a prison sentence for not moving out of such a facility. It's unsustainable, it's going to come across a great disdain for citizens, especially large urban environments, but you think about it. It's our job to criticize you and tell the citizens what awaits them. I would also like to say that Friday a great patriotic rally is being held in Belgrade, in the Square of the Republic, at 6:00 p.m. and we call on citizens to come and show their dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11113	One minute and thirty seconds of breach of the Rules of Procedure on the extension of time, and in one minute and thirty seconds of violation of the Rules of Procedure, an exhibition that is unrelated to the subject. The word is by MP Tomislav Panajotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11114	Dear gentlemen, honourable fellow MPs, every phenomenon such as wild construction has its own causes and consequences. Of course, every government, regardless of its democracy or non-democracy, strives for a variety of reasons to solve the situation of wild construction in the best possible way. In October 1995, the so-called package was adopted. construction laws, at a time when the building minister was one of our friends, who is not in the O.R. right now. During the debate on the Legislative Committee, a number of provisions of this law were found not to comply with the Constitution. Of course, the minister of that moment was not present at the session. In a record which unfortunately the Assembly Service could not provide at this time, and I have here (unfortunately, there is neither him, a reliable witness of the then president of the Legislative Committee) found in the presence of Mrs Slavica Miric that the provisions of the proposed laws were contrary to the Constitution of Serbia and Yugoslavia. Of course, the issue of constitutionality, on which this opportunity, and earlier occasions, many are called here, is a very relative thing. After only ten days, the session of the Legislative Committee attends and the gentleman who is not here now, at the moment he appears, declares that all these laws, all those provisions, are in accordance with the Constitution. When we rebelled, given that the previous report said that the Ministry of Construction should comply with its provisions with the Constitution, then the Socialist majority voted that everything was in the best order possible. Here I also see another friend of mine, who at the time had a significant place at the Ministry of Building, who yesterday very analytically and correctly cited the reasons for wild construction, and it absolutely needs to be respected. A respected colleague who used to speak here mentioned the coalition "Together," and yesterday said that the main culprits for wild construction were those who were in the municipal authorities at the time. Why the Together Coalition authorities failed to curb wild construction - for the simplest possible reason: inspectors find the situation, make appropriate solutions, make solutions to the collapse of the facility, demand so-called. Assistence of the Ministry of the Interior - there is no assistance. Simply, the Ministry of the Interior in no way, Mr Veljkovic, wanted to help the Together Coalition solve any of the problems it puts here. In this way a condition was created for the awakening of the so-called. Not the construction, but the urban mafia, which in every way could have used the weakness of existing legal solutions and the mild penalties that were proposed, to realise their ideas. This time, the DSS, the government of the Republic of Serbia, through the Ministry of Construction, is making a decision to curb another harmful phenomenon, which will also be paid by citizens, but this is a small price compared to those paid for the ten-year or twelve-year rule of the previous regime. And of course, here is one very important fact that this law has no retroactive fact. Those who have done what they have done will be able to comply with the legalization programmes adopted in all municipalities, and all those who will be defined as wild construction in the future will have to take care of regulations that are rigorous, which can do much harm to those who have chosen to break the law, but which are necessary to prevent such a harmful phenomenon as wild construction. DOS has every reason to vote for the proposal that was made here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11115	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11116	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we finally have the Government, and the Minister, who are ready to face the problem of lawless construction that has plagued this country for decades. This bill should be seen as part of a systemic approach to solving the problem of illegal construction. This law is practically what the lawyers would say, contitio son looms non to solve this problem. The problem of illegal construction has been going on for decades, and it is good that the government understands all the breadth of the problem. The problem also has its own social and economic component, which is, of course, evident from the opening presentation of Mr. Minister. And what's very important, is that the government, the ruling majority, DOS, is not committed to the repressive resolution of this problem, so they don't opt for measures that have so far been current with previous authorities, which are a variety of campaigns, primarily the destruction of these objects. This law should certainly be voted on and in the domain of its application to take into account other facts, so that after decades of "pulling under the carpet" of this problem, finally as a society with this problem and face it. First, certain constitutional solutions would be welcome, and there is no dilemma. However, it would not be correct if the new government and the new minister were to defend themselves behind the constitution's best regulation on building land. It is therefore good that, independently of that, in the context of existing constitutional solutions, access is given to solving this problem. Secondly, illegal construction is primarily due to poor functioning in the last few decades, and the last 13 years are not worth talking about. It is certain that I cannot be responsible citizens for what we have now, because we cannot go from citizens with intent to break regulations and deliberately invest their hard-earned money, to build a roof over their heads and to have someone come tomorrow and tear it down. So the responsibility is very clear, the responsibility is in the state, the responsibility is in the previous government, of those who were unable to resolve this problem in the way it is arranged in the civilized world. We simply call the current situation urban chaos. The consequences of this chaos are enormous and relate to the quality of life of citizens. The consequences are between the others and the rink, which threatens the safety consequences of the problems are traffic, water, sewerage, draining, rainwater, etc. There's a lot of consequences, which is why we need to solve them. It's all there is, because, simply by the logic of things, wild construction was not followed by investments in infrastructure, because a certain fee for municipal equipment should be paid for the building permit. When someone builds without a building permit, he normally didn't pay a utility fee. I think that's where we can find a solution to the problems we're having right now. I think it is necessary to do the following - to determine where it is allowed to build and allow potential investors and citizens to reach that space. We can't punish someone because they're building where they're not allowed, unless we clearly show where they're allowed to build. It's just like we can't punish anyone for crossing the street outside the pedestrian crossing if there's no walkway left or right 100 meters. Secondly, the process of obtaining a building permit must be made effective, and we can even say it is real. The licence belongs to the so-called so-called ". complex administrative acts, and unfortunately, it is expected in Belgrade for a year and more. The action you launched along with the town of Novi Sad is excellent and should be applied urgently in Belgrade. So, then, it must be possible for citizens to get to the way of simple and fast, to get a building permit. Third, new planning documents need to be removed, but with respect to the needs of citizens and what we have on the ground. Lawyers say, life is the intimacies of the legislator, and it seems that in this segment life and our legislator split up, well, 20 years ago. Then legalization should be carried out. This legalisation should be carried out according to the broadest possible criteria. It's both human and rational. Legalisation implies the collection of municipal taxis, i.e. a taxi for municipal equipment. In Belgrade, we have dozens of millions of illegal business-building squares. Now multiply it by some average fee and you'll see what we get. So first, we're going to make a certain fate for these objects that the citizens were building with their own money. Legal traffic needs to be ensured and order in this area. Secondly, to enable citizens of living conditions worthy of the time in which we live in the space where we are. We cannot have surface sewerage within four kilometers of Belgrade, thus jeopardising the health of citizens. Of course, these measures, which is the essence of why we should vote for this proposal, none of these measures, like this or similar, can be applied as long as we have wild construction. You have to tell a stop to wild construction. So the first step is to stop and put it into the appearance of those who are illegally building serious criminal provisions, which will prevent them from engaging in such an adventure. That's why this law is beyond necessary. I only have to look back on a few remarks, because this law contains, the truth, and some criminal provisions. These remarks relate to the fact that they should be in Criminal Law. First of all, I don't think those objections stand, because we have criminal provisions in multiple laws. We have the Law of Public Order and Peace, Art. 23 and 24, in the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, Article 33, in the Transport Safety Act and in many other laws containing criminal provisions. Surely, we would all like to, and it is perfectly normal for a normal and orderly state to have laws, but in Serbia there is no such thing. In order for the codification to be carried out, it is necessary to establish an orderly and stable system, and we will all agree that in the last 10... (President: 5 minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Here it is, in the last 10, 12 years it hasn't happened. I hope that by working together in some future period, we will finally resolve the consequences that have taken place in the last decade and that we will be able to, like this Parliament or some new one, finally adopt the law, but now it is not right and it is not correct to impute it to this government and this parliamentary majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11117	The People's Messenger Stanko Kovacevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Rajic Golub.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11118	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, forgive me for today's first time in 12 years of my political activity to address you, because of the importance of the topic and continuity of thought, in writing, which I have prepared earlier. I will also express myself today, for the first time from this speaker, as the DOS MP from the Democratic Serbia Movement against the Serbian government's legal proposal, and I will recommend that other DOS MPs do the same. Not because we do not feel that we are members of DOS or that we do not support the democratic authority of Serbia, because, ultimately, our President, Mr Perisic, is sitting in the government, but because we want both DOS and the democratic government to protect us from the huge political damage that would bring us the adoption of this law. As an MP from the Movement for Democratic Serbia, I was tasked with putting the primary accent in my parliamentary activity in this assembly on the Law on Extra Profit and the Law on Privatisation, so I did not pay particular attention to this bill, believing it should be a routine amendment and an addition to the existing law. When I read it more carefully and thought more seriously about it, I realized what political damage this law could cause. It is as if the bill was written by the most angry opponent of DOS, as the issue of accountability raises up, rather than vice versa, and thus represents democratic power as repressive rather than preventive. It is not for citizens to be threatened with imprisonment because of the current state of lawless construction, but rather for putting in prisons so far state officials who did not allow legal construction conditions, because they did not carry out the law on control and supervision, because they created legal conditions for the promotion of bribery, corruption and abuse of official position in the area of individual housing and the construction of small businesses. It is a public secret that in Belgrade last period, 10 to 15 thousand marks had to be paid, and a building land and a building permit for construction of a gas station between 50 and 150 thousand marks. Instead of creating conditions for faster and cheaper housing, to simplify even cheaper paperwork, to ensure that citizens and investors of business facilities are provided with payment of city building land and utility to wars, the legislator promises them prison for wild construction without the state providing them with conditions for legal construction. After all, citizens looked up to the Dedinje, because the illegal fairies began to do nothing like mushrooms after the rain, they looked up to a state that dealt with organised smuggling of excise products and organized robbery of citizens. Let's not let the inheritance fairies, because of the Pink TV building or the water factory in Valjevo, get citizens killed. All the senselessness of the action of non-selective destruction of illegal objects is also reflected in the request for the eviction and destruction of the TV Pink business facility, worth around 20 million marks. Even though his owner is former JUL's owner, he should also give his confession to the investor, and especially a young architect who designed a magnificent object of world architectural value. The facility should be subject to strict legalisation conditions, while at the same time responsible inspection services of the municipality, the city and Serbia, due to failure of intentional or unintended, with or without bribes and abuse of official position. Dear MPs, please don't realize that me or the PDS are in favour of illegality in the construction, for the ride, for irresponsibility. No, on the contrary, we advocate work, order, legality and progress, but the responsibility of the first state and state authorities, and then the citizens. This bill also resembles me, as if it was pushed by an MP who, at the time we discussed the Extra Profit Act, suggested about this -- don't, gentlemen of the DOS, tax big profits with this law, but by this law, cover the gray economy and chase hundreds of thousands of citizens who, because of the politics of the government at the time, had to, for the sake of their own and existence of their family, start to deal with petty trade and smuggling. And in order for the DOS and the democratic government of Serbia to fall into a trap of conflict with citizens, I suggest, Mr. Minister, that you temporarily withdraw this bill from the procedure, to complete it in terms of creating conditions for legalisation so far built objects and so on, in terms of creating conditions for faster, more efficient and cheaper housing and building economic facilities, including the provisions of criminal law provided for in this proposal. They must also apply to non-execution, and untimely, the obligations of professional services, municipalities, cities... (President: 5 minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Thank you, I end up, and then on citizens and investors who, despite the conditions created for legal construction, dare to take the course of illegal construction. Much more severe penalties for those from local and state administrations, who dare to blackmail citizens by seeking bribes or otherwise abuse their official position. Don't, Mr. Minister, let you and the Serbian Government be remembered for threatening the citizens with three years of imprisonment... (President: 6 minutes. )......................................................................................................... Thank you, for illegally raising the roof over his head, and for having been Serbia's former head of state security, for his responsibility for a year. It would be devastating for the DOS and the democratic power of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11119	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Golub Rajic, after which the messenger of the people Ilic Miomir.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11120	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, on the agenda of the National Assembly is the draft law, but only on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Objects, which the previous government passed in 1995, and in 1996 and 1997 it suffered certain changes and additions. I expected from this government of experts a summary, a new law that would be "transparent" and offer some new, better solutions in this area. In particular, in order to curb and prevent illegal construction that has taken hold throughout Serbia. This time, however, the Government has defined only changes and additions and those criminal provisions that are harmonised with regard to the amount and range of the Irregular Act and the Irregular Crimes Act. I can accept that something would be carried out and respected that there must be both penalties and sanctions. But until then, we need to create all the necessary conditions. Other methods should be used to make it the last act. However, these legal penalties, even fines, are really exaggerated. Prison sentences from 1-3 years, and coins from 100 dinars to 450,000 dinars, depending on the offense, or whether it's a natural or legal person. Which means that this government is becoming awe of citizens, entrepreneurs and legal entities. And it rules itself without respecting the laws and the Constitution. This is very dangerous today when regulations and laws are selectively applied and when the judiciary is not independent. The government did not accept amendments to the MPs, and I think they were meant to change these rigorous penalties. And also, to solve the existing state as painlessly as possible. I agree that illegal construction must be sanctioned and prevented, but we cannot escape the current situation that is alarming and when in Serbia there is anyone who knows how many illegally erected objects. Should all of this be destroyed or tried to legalise what is possible, with the stimulating charge of taxes from those who have worked the facilities. And from now on, it needs to be cut in the bud. So basically. That's what construction inspections are supposed to do, and there's something that needs to be changed. Because when they come out, they make up the logs according to regulations, they give 30 days to obtain the necessary documentation. And in a few days, the facility is finished. That means it's over. I'll remind you that local self-pours had an obligation to record in their territory illegally erected facilities and make up legalization programs. That probably hasn't been brought anywhere. But local administrations will have to be much more efficient when it comes to obtaining permits and other documents needed to build objects. In addition to the efficiency of the administration, it is certainly necessary to bear in mind the amounts paid by the parties when submitting the requests. It is especially important that they can do all this in the municipality and in one place, not wander and therefore give up and commit themselves to illegal construction. The existing law on the construction of buildings covers all areas or activities related to the construction of buildings, which is a set of actions containing: previous actions and control of technical documentation, professional supervision, preparatory works and construction of the facility. In the design of the project, it shall be accessible to obtain a building permit, with the request of the investor for the necessary documentation. And when you get the permit, access to the building. Later, after the construction was completed, a technical inspection of the facility would be carried out and a valid permit would be issued, with the request and the necessary consent. This is all very complicated and not arranged the best way. I think it's one of those wild-building flowering patterns. And also, regardless of the economic opportunities of recent years, a lot has been built both in individual and organised housing, unlike today, when everything stands and is not there. A large number of citizens, especially refugees, resorted to reaching a roof over their heads as quickly and cheaply as possible. Therefore, understanding needs to be done, and such ones should be allowed to legalise objects. I also say that the state or municipality did not provide the necessary conditions in advance, with the necessary programmes and with the necessary infrastructures, so that citizens can legally access construction. It should be noted that the roof above the main all is needed. And they don't all have the same financial opportunities and they can't respect what they're very often conditioned to. In the proposal for this law, in Article 43, I think it would be indisputable for the buildings to be built without permission to be connected to an electrical power grid, telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage. However, the proposal is also for buildings whose construction has been completed. Is that right? In Articles 52a and 52b, I believe that large sentences and that this is a criminal offence from 1-3 years in prison, and also monetary amounts are enormous. Well, this is another repressive amendment to DOS law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11121	There is a word from MP Miomir Ilic, followed by Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11122	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister Shumarac, the bill on amendments and additions to the existing Law on the Construction of Objects is understandable that the Proposer, meaning the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is trying to correct certain irregularities that existed in practice, which is to prevent wild construction, which is undeniable and that we accept as an opposition. But the provisions of the bill that are given here do not give a good reason for this bill to enter into the procedure and I join the MPs from the opposition and the positions that have been said here that this bill should be withdrawn by the government, for reasons that I will try to explain. The existing legal solutions, meaning the law that was passed in 1995, clearly defined ways and conditions for obtaining a building permit for construction and reconstruction of buildings, both business, housing and other types of buildings. Also, the law regulates other elements that say how it should be arranged. But this law can only be applied when the legal solutions that follow this matter are given. And that's first of all, the Expropriation Act, the Construction Land Law, then, the cataster alignment with the Land Book. In recent years, we have tried to bring the uncoordinated state of the catastrian operative and the land - book books, which is the basis for applying for a building permit. One of these requirements is listed in Article 27, paragraph 1, point 2, where it stands, in the existing law, that it is provided that, with a request for the issue of a building permit, an investor should submit: evidence of the right of ownership, i.e. the right to use building land, for the purpose of building, i.e. evidence of the right of ownership, or evidence of the right to use buildings, for the purpose of reconstruction of buildings. It is in the provisions of an existing law which does not change this proposal. Article 27(5) also states that the authority issuing the permit should issue a contract within 15 days of the date of submission with the documentation referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article. There's a problem. Because if everyone respected all of this, then everyone who builds would be able to send out these legal solutions. But the previous procedure with these complex elements in our legal problem, and above all property-legal relations, condition that all of this is written down will be difficult to respect. We are for those who are wildly built to be punished. However, I must tell you that what you have now proposed stops the complete construction of buildings that are under construction, and that is of public interest. I will mention the infrastructure facilities that are important for this country, for which there is no building permit or in the process of issuing a building permit, or the inability to obtain a building permit for those reasons. The Đerdap hydroenergy system, for quota 6950, at the mouth of Nera in Danube, and it is known that the hydroenergy system is working on a larger quota, has no building permit for reasons which I have already stated: unresolved property-legal relations. Many buildings from the power system have not received a building permit from surface nets, thermal power plants, public goods such as roads and railways. This can all be treated now by this Article 1. The bill - it's in the process. How are we going to implement now that these investors who use it publicly to build objects, and the facilities are not finished, are under these criminal provisions that are terrible? They're not cash, they're prison sentences, they're for the investor, they're for the performer. It was tried to legalise wildly built buildings, residential buildings in the previous period. It has not been carried out for certain reasons. There's a procedure to be implemented. Then what would they do with a settlement of Kaludierica that has over 7,000 individual housing facilities, where there is no building permit? So all these people need to be put in jail. We don't have enough prisons in Serbia to put them all there. I think it's better to do the following before - to withdraw this bill, to give the Department of Construction a nice processing, with certain ministries that are following first and foremost acquittal and adjudication about issuing documents for obtaining a building permit. A building permit may not be issued within 15 days, unless property-legal relations are resolved, unless there is a possibility of obtaining certain consents from PTT, Elektroprivreda, etc. I'm telling you there will be a halt in the construction of infrastructure facilities from communal contributions, self-supply, where these investments are from the framework of public interest. (President: 5.30 minutes. ) In many of our settlements, especially in rural areas, construction land is not arranged. Based on this, no regulation plan can be drawn up, a detailed urban plan, as has been called so far. Then how can you get a building permit? How can a field, which is arranged to create individual family buildings with infrastructure, be issued with a building permit unless an property-law issue is resolved? (President: 6 minutes. ) Mr Minister, for this reason, I believe that you should withdraw this bill and previously agree on all this, to update the accompanying documentation and to find that all the services that work, as well as citizens and investors, are one reality, and the reality is that this bill is withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11123	The word is by MP Zivko Selakovic, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11124	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this document is very important and I think it's a key document when it comes to citizens. The apartments today are number one when it comes to the survival and existence of every citizen. I think it's five minutes very little, it's small and five hours, if I could just cite some facts on the municipality of Chukarica -- what Mr. Covic did during his reign, as mayor, when he had all the functions in all the municipalities. We believe, I speak on behalf of the Soviet Parliament group, that only one way to amnesty is for those people who have done this before to lead to urban chaos, and now they are again in the leading places and in one way, I repeat, they want to amnest themselves. It's a good thing this law came in line. We welcome him. Mr. Minister himself said how many losses are lost, because there's paying utility and other obligations through wild construction. I have to underline that this law will still hit a simple man, a low-income worker, and that it will amnesty and push through the main beginners of the building, in the place where the P+1 family housing is scheduled to be built. These are exclusively market apartments, because the poor only builds a room, bathroom, etc., and these are giants. To mention only Rupčina settlement and many other buildings built in Žarkov, which is also the case with all other urban and suburban municipalities. I'd just like to add something to that. We believe that this law should be completed, returned to work, consulted with professionals, let's say, with the Association of Residential Cooperatives in Serbia, who also welcome the adoption of this law, even these sentences to prison, but that these are appropriate penalties for all. We believe that the real perpetrators and the guilty will get away with it, and everything will be broken on the burden of the workers. Let me just point out, let's say that a sentence of up to three years is intended for an individual person, legal or physical, who is illegally building, which has grounds and these measures to prevent wild construction. But we can't understand, and I especially, that the responsible person in the board of directors is being punished from 100 to 10,000 dinars. That's 320 marks. It issues a document to get that man legalized. I would propose to each of these referents, if I had a little more time and by name I would call, to replace our roles, to be an MP for this salary, and I to be a reference there and to issue only three such illegal building permits. That's enough for my kids not to work either. What I'm saying is that through that legalization and a half of 50,000 marks is the price of these buildings that I was talking about -- P+8, not to collapse, because if they collapse, then he loses a few million marks. This happened in the municipality of Chukarica - the house was torn down, i.e. two floors, for which there was a permit, but because of the deviation from the project. I agree that it was supposed to, but only that all those other bodies looked, 20, 50 meters, had to tear down a lot of buildings to the ground because they didn't have any permission. The Soviet Parliament group can't support this law, not what they don't want. We want to prevent urban chaos, but there's something unsaid here. In my opinion, they are again protected by those people who need and how to respond, because they are the beginners of it. You know, when the verse catches it, it goes on. (President: 5.30 minutes. ) Why can't it, like the extra profit bill that we've adopted now, that it's been valid since 1989, retroactively to come into force, because this was happening during that period. And now we're going to amnesty that only since the law was passed. Then what did we do? They'll hit again those people who build one bathroom or one room. (President: 6 minutes. ) I warned certain authorities, the chairman of the executive board at Chukarica, and she was unfortunately from the Democratic Alternative Party, that she was destroying all of the facilities when we were in session, when it was known that this item would be on the agenda, they rushed to finish it because they knew that this law would only hang people from its adoption. When I booked a reception with a group of citizens, she kicked me out of the office. It's too bad the bill of good behavior was removed. So, a law like this, no finishing, the SS Group won't support it, but we are in favour of making a good, valid law, so that this gets in the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11125	I ask the MPs that if we have voted in a democratic way, we have decided that the time of discussion is five minutes, and so is the democratic implementation of the decision we have made. The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11126	Dear People's MPs, today the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction of Objects is on the agenda. As a reason for the adoption of this law, it is stated that the criminal provisions have not changed, so it has proved necessary to make appropriate amendments and additions in respect of the range of penalties and all in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Infringements and Commercial Infringements. I don't think even so far's fines were too small to base it on law-abiding. The reason lies in something else, which is in the work of the competent authorities who were authorized to make permits and solutions in the Law on the Construction of Objects. It is therefore an administration in municipalities, which has not been effective in its work, and it is not only in municipalities where the Socialists have been in power, when it is known that since 1996 they have been in the largest municipalities, where the most illegal construction is on the authority of the opposition party, so there is a general disregard for the work obligation of the people in charge of making the permits, to resolve decisions within the meaning of the Building Act. Construction facilities in the law are said to include construction works, as well as construction - craft works, installation of equipment and reconstruction of buildings. If the construction of buildings is to be started, it is necessary to access the acquisition of a building permit issued by the municipality, or the city, and for objects of general interest, the competent Ministry of construction of the Republic of Serbia. A building permit shall be issued for the whole facility or part of the facility if that facility represents a technical-functional continent. This is what I'm saying now for reasons that I'm going to make later, so that I don't get separated from the subject later. An application for a building permit shall be submitted within the meaning of Article 24(2). The law, and the competent authority is obliged to, within 30 days, if there is complete and orderly documentation, give the permit, if not to notify the applicants, to require what is missing. It is known that in the application the main project, proof of property rights, evidence of the arrangement of mutual relations with the organisations governing the building land in respect of the payment of liabilities, and the fourth, consent and opinion, as well as other evidence set out in the specific regulation. What if a reference officer who is required in municipalities to issue a building permit, within the time limit provided for in the law, did not take any action. I think that in that sense, the responsibility of that referent, not the man or firm who requested permission, or applied for a building permit, and in that period, she would not have been given sanctions. I am talking about the terms and conditions of the building permit, because of Article 43a, which speaks of the building facility, or whose construction is completed without a building permit, cannot be connected to an electrical or telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage. What's going to happen, I just said, if someone submitted a request for a building permit, and they didn't get permission to pass this law for reasons of bureaucratic behaviour of someone in the municipality, except, of course, the permits that apply to the facilities that started right before and during the elementary disasters. According to the Law on the Construction of Objects, the execution of works may be carried out by an undertaking, i.e. a company which is registered in the relevant register on the performance of these works, if at least one person is employed with high professional training, appropriate professions and powers to manage construction. If such an undertaking that meets the conditions for carrying out works, performer or responsible person in a legal sense, produces works on buildings that are built without a building permit, it is Article 24 and will be penalised by a year's imprisonment. I think the punishment is inappropriate in the conditions in which we live and work, I don't think it's democratic, for the democracy that you stand for. I am for criminal provisions, but to consider it a felony and predict prison for up to a year, it's really reprisal. It is even more rigorous that a natural person who is an investor or a responsible person in a legal person who is an investor of a building that is built without a building permit, Article 24, will be punished for a criminal offence in prison for up to three years. The sentence is inappropriate. I believe that this should not be a criminal offence, it should be returned to fines, if it is already known that investors finance the execution of works on a building without a building permit, for all spent construction material is also obliged to pay sales tax under the Transport Tax Act, and in relation to the Construction of Objects Act. Therefore, there is tax evasion and a criminal law is foreseen and a criminal application may be filed for that tax evasion. It's a matter of putting order into the building of objects, and I agree with that. Introducing order through prison cells, I don't think it's a solution. The solution is respect for all deadlines in the search and division of building permits, and in case there is no interest in seeking construction permits, and the facility is being built, the building inspection should take all legal measures, primarily in the part of the ban on carrying out works and making a solution to bring the facility down. So, the basis for solving illegal construction is the law and work of all the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11127	National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11128	I'm advertising a violation of Article 93. Rules of Procedure. It's a serious law. For failure to comply with this law, prison sentences are scheduled for up to three years. There are, as far as I can count, 68 DOS MPs. Seriously, it's the law. Let them come to us to take us seriously, and now I ask that the quorum be established.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11129	The MP, according to the Rules of Procedure, puts forward a proposal to determine the quorum. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. With the conclusion that in the third, fourth and fifth rows on the right, seventh, eighth and ninth, on my left, there are persons who I assume are MPs, who violate members 113 and 114. The Rules of Procedure and, with the conclusion that there are other MPs who respected the Rules of Procedure by Articles 113 and 114, have inserted their cards, there are not enough MPs to continue the work of the Assembly and set a break of 20 minutes. So we move on at 12 o'clock and 30 minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the National Assembly after the break. Please allow us to determine the quorum to enable the work of the National Assembly. Here you go. The electronic system has been established by 120 but by a count of 129. The representative sitting in the third row is 119, MP next to him 120, MP next to him 121, MP behind the fourth row is 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, coming out of the hall. We can continue our work if you accept that the chairman counted the members of the National MPs present in the Serbian Parliament, as he noticed the disagreement between the electronic results and those present in the hall. The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic is asking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. I can only give it to you if we determine that we have a quorum at the National Assembly session. We have a quorum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11131	Madam Chairman, one of your unidentified facilities went out for your pay phone. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 80, Section 4 and Article 93. Article 93 applies exclusively to you, as chairman, who insults the MPs of the people. It is our right to identify ourselves when we enter the O.R., but that doesn't mean we have to give you a quorum, and at the beginning of the session, we had a proposal from one DOS MP to extend today's session until this item of the agenda is completely exhausted. And here we are witnessing that you cannot gather 100 MPs to work in the afternoon. To make it look tonight, we'd just see it, of course. So it's not a problem for the SRS parliamentary group, which is here in numbers, but it won't give the DOS quorum to the majority, which is mandatory, it's logical that it provides a quorum for the work of the Assembly, given the number of MPs it has. And as for the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 80(4), I must point out to you the fact that the electronic voting system is absolutely operational and that, while it is in office, you cannot move on to the count of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11132	The chairman is obliged to give an explanation - so, as far as the quorum is concerned, that there is no quorum for work, the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic could not get the word, to address the National Assembly. What makes sense in the strategy, or it doesn't make sense, is, of course, we all have our opinions. It is logical for me to apply the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and, in case I see any inaccuracies in the picture of the electronic voting system, with the present MPs in the hall, to access the additional check. As for the observation that the electronic system must be trusted, there was sufficient number of MPs who doubted it and we acted on our suspicions. I can put a breach of the Rules of Procedure to the vote, if you like. There's a word from the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11133	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, of the 45 DSS MPs of the DSS, there are 40 MPs present in the O.R. at this time, who remain justly absent. I would appeal to everyone, and most of all to the MPs of DOS, to concentrate a little on working in this assembly, no matter what we all have obligations, to try a little bit more seriously and we do, and that's an objection that I can sometimes make to my MPs, because I think that the responsibility that we are carrying here should be shown in this House, to pass this law and to, if necessary, take a well-deserved break. And to the opposition MPs that, regardless of what they are the opposition and what they are trying in every way to prevent the work of this assembly, and everything else, to be a constructive opposition in their discussions, their remarks, their amendments, simply do not obstruct the work of the Assembly in this way, because it does no good to anyone. I would appeal to all the MPs here to finish this session, not to waste any time, because if we were to gather our days and days by having a game of quorum, we'd go outside, go back to the O.R. Whether it's good or not, citizens know best and they see best, and unfortunately, they suffer the most. So let's bring this session to an end. I appeal to those we can influence, they are DOS MPs, and MPs of opposition parties should be correct to those who chose them, which are citizens of Serbia, and work in their interest, not in the narrow interests of parties. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11134	I assume that the parliamentary objection was about respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges all MPs to register when they enter, and only if MP Dejan Mihaylov wishes to vote on it? But that's consistent. The essence of the objection to attending the National Assembly session is that we all have to respect the Rules of Procedure equally, and I cannot agree more than I agree. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you are trying to damage the Rules of Procedure, Article 80(4), which speaks of that, if the electronic voting system is not in office, and that is the only basis for counting the Members of Parliament, which the President of the National Assembly informs the MPs of, the quorum is determined by the count of the Members of Parliament. You have included an electronic voting system and asked for the identification of the MPs to determine the quorum, and since this has stalled suddenly, because there are not enough MPs in the hall, those who have identified themselves, of course, then you are going to count the MPs on your own initiative, and you are personally doing so. These are already precedents that represent the full usurp of power. What this is about, as our disputes arise -- for the government of the Republic of Serbia, when elected, was voted by around 170 MPs, meaning 126 and more. That government has to have that kind of support here any minute now. We're against this government, we're against this bill of law, so what we would provide is a quorum, that the government here in the Assembly represents... So read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11136	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive from the MPs' benches and to hear from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11137	I have a few books, so I'll give you one to read, read how a man should deal with politics. You didn't come here to gravitate, to arrest, or to judge, you came here to do a hard and responsible job, the work of a MP. To do that job, you have to read a few things. And in order to get into a situation like that at all, you have to be in Hall 126. There are no objections to the opposition MPs, but only to you, and you resolve your conflicts in some other way. The best in the National Assembly and the best elections. We don't want to be hostages to the DOS conflict. We want you to clear up your questions, get the Assembly going normally, and we'll do it right by the law. We have a lot to say about this bill, but don't expect us to ever give you a quorum. Expect, whenever we find out you're in a restaurant, that you're somewhere else, we'll ask to establish a quorum. If we have to, we'll get out of the O.R., so there's a count, but it really doesn't have to, and it doesn't make sense. For you, whenever the quorum is determined, the MPs of the SRS will not be here, because it would be a sign that we are giving you support, and we are not going to give this government support, we are asking for the negative consequences of this bill, which will be in a few months or a few years, to point out that and to keep track of it. So, no more, Mrs. Comic, in the course of determining the quorum by electronic system, you will switch to counting, counting only those MPs who have not been identified. Then find out where the light is on and there is no MP, because there are such. (Aman the woman's head, what are you yelling, what's the matter with you, she's going crazy - she's talking to the messenger in the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11138	I ask the Messenger of the people not to speak to the messengers of the people, and they shall not speak to him. That's the rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Pal Shandor answered, so Mr. MP Slobodan Janjic. Please wait, I am required by the Rules of Procedure to explain the intervention of MP Tomislav Nikolic. So, what's logical and who needs a quorum is a political strategy. I don't talk about the political strategy from this place and the work of the National Assembly session. The quorum is not provided to the government, which you have not given support to, or the ruling majority. The quorum is an MP obliged to make the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, no less, no more. As for your text of reasons for violating the Rules of Procedure, except for being another example of breaking the Rules of Procedure, in a statement that you are all against, you need to respect the National Assembly and be a quorum, in order to have a place to say that you are against, no less, no more than that. I have explained, and I do not see the need to do it again, so that I do not bother the National Assembly unless you want to vote on the violation of Article 80. Do you want to vote for the National Assembly to be declared by a vote? You can tell me with-- yeah, or with--no. That's how the Rules of Procedure is interpreted. The President of the National Assembly interprets the Rules of Procedure, with the help of the MPs, all 250, who help the chairman to interpret it perfectly correctly. So, I'm interpreting that you're telling me from the scene whether you're satisfied or not? I'm guessing you don't have the attitude and the satisfaction of the answer. People's MP Pal Shandor, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11139	Dear Vice-President, I think the Rules of Procedure are very clear, that Article 80(2) says the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if there is more than half of the total number of MPs present at the National Assembly session. The Rules of Procedure do not say that MPs have to sit in benches, they can stand, if they are inside these doors that make up the assembly session, they enter the quorum. The next member says the MP is required to register through the electronic system. If he doesn't register, then he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. Everyone who's in the O.R., whether they register or not, enters that quorum you've counted. So don't discuss it. The opposition colleagues, if they want to obstruct in this way not to insert cards, have to come out the back door, not watch what happens from the back door. It can't be both of them, either they're inside or they're out. If they're inside the O.R., sitting here, sitting behind the cameras, sitting where they're sitting, they're in the O.R. and they're doing the quorum and they're in the work. Eventually, Madam Vice President can warn them to behave unculturally and not let them, say, sit on this stage here, but that's another question.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11140	They can sit on the stage for all I care.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11141	And as far as I'm concerned. On the other hand, if that's such an obstacle, these next positions of the same member are just working out this general provision that goes into the quorum. You turn off the electronic system nicely, let your colleagues know that this doesn't work and count how many MPs there are and that we move on. Don't wait hours to see if they're here. Press the button, say the system doesn't work, count us down, there's so much, we move on without losing our days here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11142	An explanation I could give Mr. Pal Shandor I ask the People's MPs to decide whether or not the National Assembly wants the Rules of Procedure to be respected. [[growls]] Do you want me to respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure or not? If you don't want me to respect them, it's no problem. Then we'll all be in a general mess. If you want us to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, then I am obliged to make an explanation of the advertising to the Rules of Procedure, which is given by an individual MP. (Employee Pal Shandor from place: Article 80(2)) National MP Pal Shandor explained practically and did not warn of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but explained how he interpreted the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to vote on that, that member being broken? Yeah. ) National MP Pal Shandor requests a vote on the violation of Article 80(2), which says that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if there is more than half of the total number of MPs present at the National Assembly session, as well as the third position of Article 80. I ask the National Assembly to declare whether the second and third positions of Article 80 have been violated. For 118, and I will beg the electronic service to give the report, since there was one pressure on the automatics excess of one, and in any case with most votes, the National Assembly concluded that Article 80 was violated. The Rules of Procedure, which treats the obligations of the Members of the People's Parliament and the session of the National Assembly. National MP Slobodan Janjic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11143	Madam Chairman, if we are all in favour of the efficient work of this assembly, I suggest you close the assembly restaurant at the time of the meeting of the Assembly from 10.00 to 14.00 hours and from 15.30 to 19.30 hours, as well as to ban the drinking of alcohol, where your MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11144	Would the MP say which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken and what is the connection between restaurants, alcohol and captains...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11145	Madam Chairman, let me tell you something. You are causing general fear of the citizens of Serbia. Not only with its appearance, but also with its behavior. [[Laughter]] In case anything happens to Mr Milutinovic, you are the president of Serbia. What is Serbia waiting for with such a president? It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11146	I hope that Mr. Milan Milutinovic will be in good health, but the idea is not bad. I can only conclude that MP Slobodan Janjic did not bring a breach of the Rules of Procedure to any member, he expressed his views on the chairman. I ask him to keep his personal feelings, when he sees me, from passing on to other citizens of Serbia, and I will look to break the feeling of fear in him. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to point out a few very serious things to you. In fact, I'm at the same time (the noise in the O.R.)... Don't be nervous, I'll mention a few members. So, in my own time, speaking of Mrs. Komic's work, I said she must be better than Natasa Micic and Dragan Marsican. I'm just afraid he'll talk me out of it. But I would remind you of Article 99(2) that you can't do for the MPs, because at some point they won't give you a quorum - and the DSS and DOS majority in the National Assembly (gals in the O.R.)... I'll explain it to you and I'll read it to you where it says it, because you don't like to read what you like to read are newspapers, not books - so you're saying they're unidentified objects (the president's address), because, in any case, we're not objects. Maybe we're subjects, you know. And not only does such behavior not only contribute to the work of the National Assembly, it is the opposite of the Rules of Procedure. We can't, whether we will or won't abide by the rights, but we have to stick to it. It's an internal, sublegal legal act, which we have to respect for each other precisely. It does not depend on your arbitration will, on your discretionary powers or on any rights or authority by any of the MPs. I'd like to clarify something to Mr. Pal Shandor, who also knows it well, but I don't know why he didn't want to talk about it until the end, precisely. In fact, he told you exactly what it says in Article 2 of the 80th Alliance, and he wanted to read to you what it says in article 3 and Article 80. Because this is where we talk about how to determine the quorum. So, procedure and procedure. What it is is the essence of democracy, how that quorum is determined, and that doesn't look like what you've been setting it up. When you read that, you'll understand that it has nothing to do with what happened earlier. It says that the quorum is determined by the application of the electronic voting system, by the fact that each MP is required to identify himself when entering the hall. But on entering the O.R., not a hundred times during the session itself, by inserting an identification card. What is most important, if the electronic voting system is not in place, which is notified by the President of the National Assembly by the MPs, the quorum is determined by the count of the MPs. But not by finding out from place that there are 7,8 or 9 unidentified objects, by cursing all MPs to the opposition, the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who can't behave at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11148	Three minutes and 20 seconds, and please do not make any claims regarding the properties and private life of other persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11149	What private life of other faces? What private life are you talking about? What private life are you talking about? What are you talking about? (President: three minutes and 40 seconds. It's the only thing you know how to speak. And, except for these obstructions... So that's my appeal to you, without having to plead, because I know how the DSS and DOS majority will plead... It's something about this obstruction the DSS was talking about here. (President: Four minutes. Don't say that. Oh, it wasn't four minutes yet, but you're early. So, let me tell you, as far as these obstructions are concerned, you canceled, or you extended the session in seven days. You put the whole week off because you were scared. You scared away your political decisions. (President: Four minutes. And you're going to tell someone about obstruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11150	Four minutes and 20 seconds, I warn you not to express your views on what other MPs think or feel. It's a private life. Four minutes and 33 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11151	I just hope that with this kind of obstruction, with this kind of inefficient work, you'll stop and finally stop buying so many jeeps that you're already talking about and throwing away. Because there will be no more factories in the world that will be able to produce so many jeeps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11152	He can't... [[Pal Shandor next to the pay phone looking for a replica]] I'll count on your approach to the speaker because we haven't heard from you. National MP Aleksandar Vukic pointed out the violation of Article 99, paragraph 2, which reads: "People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect." I can ask the National Assembly for a stenogram, whenever I have spoken to any MP or National Assembly, and that, looking at the stenogram, we see where it was without respect. In the case of counting, I didn't say "unidentified object", I said "national MP in the third row, MP next to him", and the number that was associated with what I was saying. So I have extraordinary and sincere respect for all the people in this congregation. What I'm trying to do is split up is we all have our own political strategies, we all have our own political goals, and we have our own political goals and our own political strategies within the framework of respect for joint work in the National Assembly. Nothing more, nothing less. People's MP Pal Shandor is looking for a replica. The basis for the replica is? The wrong interpretation, the name of the memory.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11153	Mr. Wolfie mentioned me by name. I apologize, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11154	I ask the People's Messengers to hear from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11155	I haven't heard from you before because your opposition colleagues, on the right, are talking a little louder, so I can't hear. Let me finish what my colleague Wolfie said. 80, paragraph 3, reads: "The quorum is determined by applying the electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the hall, by inserting the identification card into the MP's unit." That means every time he sets foot in the O.R. to put an I.D. card in the MP's unit. And all of them, Mr. Wolfiche, who was in the door, ten feet in the O.R., are required to identify themselves in the nearest MP's unit. Therefore, there is no dispute between us. Only you can't be inside and out, present and absent. By the way, when you get into the O.R., then you'll be in, you're in charge of the Rules of Procedure, in any unit. They're made so that you don't have to make a lot of physical effort to get to your place, but you can put a card in every unit and sign into the nearest one. So, you walk in the door, right on the right, and you sign in, that's on your Rules of Procedure. You don't have to go up there in the corner. So many systems are well installed, that in all places, all units receive the application of all MPs. Otherwise, the system could function that way, and our colleagues know that it's receiving the identification of a single card, only in a particular place. But this is a more perfect system. Because we knew what opposition we had. Let's give you a chance to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that you can always and wherever you want to apply. So as not to deny you your right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11156	According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11157	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 1 has been injured. Rules of Procedure and Rule 104. Article 1 The Rules of Procedure, which you adopted by your parliamentary majority in the modified edition, with restrictive measures for MPs of opposition political parties, two months ago, says: "This Rules of Procedure regulates the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the rights and duties of MPs are exercised." Mrs. Chairman spoke of what rights, duties and obligations of the Members of Parliament were. This teaching takes place since she was chaired by circumstances over the past few days. It is indeed a great kind of hypocrisy, all that Mrs. Komic says, when she gives us such lectures, when she points us to "kindness", as she likes to say, to nice behavior, to address with respect, when she ignores the fact that the MPs of opposition political parties are most disciplined. First of all, I mean the MPs of the SRS who work hard, work hard on legal projects, on amendments, on everything you have no idea about. Because you don't read the laws, you don't try to understand what's on the agenda. Representatives of political parties who make up the majority in this assembly, from the so-called DOS, infringements of Article 1. The Rules of Procedure for not fulfilling the duties of the Members of Parliament, which is to enable this congregation to work normally. Article 104 has been violated because since the beginning of the session there are no conditions for smooth and normal functioning and for uninterrupted work to continue the debate on the legal project in principle. That is why I propose that the chairman, Mrs Komic, since it is obvious that regular measures cannot establish order among DOS MPs in the Assembly hall, take a break, while with their authority or possibly someone's authority, if someone has it over the MPs, so-called. DOS, do not provide uninterrupted working conditions. In the entire meeting of DOS and DSS MPs, a separate parliamentary club, and representatives of the opposition, were unable in the normal atmosphere to make their views on this legislative project, as the unarticulated sounds were heard from all sides, unnormous noises, abnormal conditions. What was said earlier was also proof of your hypocrisy, because you did not allow Mr Tomislav Nikolic to explain to you what his advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure consisted of, and then when Mr Pal Shandor was right when he said you were violating the Rules of Procedure, he acted as a congregation majority in favour of such a claim, you gave him the opportunity to further explain to us how the Rules of Procedure had been broken. That's enough, woman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11158	I ask the MPs not to receive the speaker from the assembly speaker and not to repeat it as a request anymore, for we are all bound to do so. As regards Articles 1 and 104, I apply Article 1. I do not see any reason to apply Article 104 on the inability to establish order, as all present MPs in the hall sit politely in their parliamentary benches. Talking to each other shows they're not interested in the debate from the pay phone. They are obliged to listen to every speaker, but every speaker is obliged to take care of the content of his presentation. I see no reason to pause because of the inability to establish order, unless the National Assembly decides, or as the MP Natasa Jovanovic will not vote on it, to now take a break because of the inability to establish order at the meeting of the National Assembly. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement about this? (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: Since you do not see it as the chairman, there is no need. I find that National MP Natasa Jovanovic says there is no need. The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11159	Madam Chairman, you as vice president of the National Assembly, and now as president of the National Assembly, instead of taking care of the Rules of Procedure, you are most in violation of him. I am reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Articles 80 and 113 because, as far as I have seen, you see extremely well when it comes to the MPs of the SRS, and even in the third, fourth and fifth order, you count them, let's say, on the other hand, the identification on my right is the 8 MPs of the DOS, and the 7 is in their seats. All right, there are four MPs sitting behind Cedomir Jovanovic, and two are sitting by identification, because Srdja Popovic is not in place. He's in fifth row. Don't let me count on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11160	I suppose the intervention of MP Veroljub Arsic referred to a request for a computer copy of the electronic records, although it is not clear. Does the MP want a computer copy? Yeah. ) I ask the service to deliver an electronic copy to the MP. (Veroljub Arsic from the site: And to collect all cards. ) You had the opportunity to ask the chairman to ask the National Assembly to pick up cards. The word has the People's MP Slobodan Janjic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11161	I'm asking the chairman to call the service and pick up cards from all the emissaries who forgot their cards in MPs, that we really know how many MPs are in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11162	What's the member of the Rules of Procedure you're looking for?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11163	I think you've read the Rules of Procedure. If you don't know the Rules of Procedure, you shouldn't even be chairing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11164	If you want us to consistently apply the Rules of Procedure, then it is your duty to quote a member of the Rules of Procedure or a provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11165	Article 1
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11166	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11167	On the basis of Article 80(6), I request that the quorum be determined as provided for in this Article. In doing so, I would like to remind you that there is no debate in the proposal for a legislator to determine the quorum by calling, but the assembly is being declared. I'm saying this not because of you fellow MPs, but because of the chairman. I would ask you always to bear in mind that the atmosphere in the assembly depends not only on the MPs in the bench, but depends primarily on the commentary of the one who holds the presidency. You could make your contribution to a more peaceful atmosphere, if you could make as little observation on different topics as possible. It would be better to comment on the Rules of Procedure, as it requires this Rules of Procedure to work as chairman, and leave the observations on life and other topics for another occasion. I remind you again, on the basis of Article 80, Section 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11168	Article 80(6) "If the MP raises doubts about the quorum identified by the count of the MPs, he may request that the quorum be determined by the call of the MPs, which is decided by the National Assembly without a search." I ask the National Assembly to state whether or not the quorum is to be determined by a pronunciation. For 26, there were no abstentions against 111, no vote of 20, of a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal to establish the quorum by calling out the MPs. The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic, followed by MP Srdjan Mijalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is unserious of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the Minister of Shumarc to go before the National Assembly, before the MPs of the National Assembly with such a bad explanation of the law on building buildings. The government of the Republic of Serbia is as if it is trying to challenge the anger of Serbian citizens who have not yet recovered from a package of tax laws, various astronomical gatherings, and already have the consequences of a new bad bill on building buildings. It is not disputed that it is necessary to contain and prevent illegal construction and construction without a building permit. Frapantic is the fact that there are currently 700,000 to 1,000 illegally built construction facilities in Serbia. Minister Šumarac, in his presentation, which he could not convince us of anything and convince us of, suggests solving the problem by criminal penalties. I'm surprised he proposes to start with Batajnica, and why not from Novi Banovci, the glass castle of Zoran Djindjic. Does he have all the necessary building permits? It is also unfortunate that the adoption of this law will punish many citizens, and in most cases they are not the only culprits for potentially built objects without permission. The state didn't do much for its citizens, and it could. She was obliged to allow legal construction, to accelerate her by her rational moves. A brilliant example of solving this problem is the local self-government in Zemun, where 6,000 salaries were allocated to citizens under extremely favourable conditions and where those who were the housing and social most vulnerable, refugees and other persons successfully solved this acute life problem. Very bad for the citizens of Serbia is the appearance of various...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11170	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive and I ask you to listen to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11171	... abuse of authorisation - urban, construction, etc. of local powerful men who almost always made it difficult for poor people to be in such an uninvited position. There were many occurrences of bribery by municipal officials of abuse of position, the people of the homeless found out how they knew and knew. For some, building a house was imperative. There was simply no other solution. I think it's the state's interest to distract citizens and encourage them to build housing, not to prevent or sanction bad laws that, apart from sanctions that expect a large number of citizens, contain nothing in themselves. The cause of the problem in this sphere lies also in the poor, outdated urban plans that correspond to all other states, except for the real state of the field. What is almost certainly wrong with the approach of the promoter is a three-year sentence for an improperly built facility. The question is, what about those who started building before the law was passed on building buildings? How 900,000 Serbian citizens will react and whether they are all to blame and whether they should all be punished. We Serbian radicals by our reasoned discussions and quality amendments want this assembly to vote the laws that will be the image of justice and justice and that will be for the benefit of the people and the state. This law does not contain either, has almost no concept and will certainly cause anger and indignation for Serbian citizens, and I will therefore not vote as an SRS MP for its adoption. And finally, with great pleasure, I would like to invite the citizens of Serbia to a large patriotic rally in the square... (The chairman, Gordana Comic, turned off the microphone to MP Dragan Colic, who is behind the speaker. ..... The Republic, at 6:00 p.m. on Friday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11172	The word has a People's MP, Sladjan Mijlovic, and then a National MP, Dr Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11173	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the law will only improve one good law, in my opinion. The problem is that this law is not applied in a domain where it regulates construction with or without a building permit. In Article 51. The law stipulates that a building inspector is authorized to bring about a solution that destroys the facility if built without a building permit. A member of the 34th construction without permission sanctions as a commercial offense and provides for a fine of 10 to 100,000 dinars. The facility shall not be built on a public surface for a single part, and in that case the destruction shall follow. For a natural person who builds without permission, a prison sentence is scheduled for up to 30 days. If these members of the law had applied, like the Property Tax Act, illegal construction certainly wouldn't have taken so much. The impunity of illegal construction has been raised to a degree of virtue, as one moral act, and perhaps one man is building, and the inspector wants it to collapse. Another problem is that the state on one side, at least formally, prohibits illegal construction, and legal construction is almost not allowed, because there are no general and detailed urban plans, land is not brought in for purposes, there are no regulatory plans, a plot plan, etc. It's going to take a few years and a lot of money to get them here. These changes and additions were not only taken over by European laws, there was once a criminal act in our city of lawless possession of building land in social property. Later, the elements of this work were changed, so it was only an illegal occupation of land, if it serves special purposes. The law did not determine what specific purposes these were, and in court practice the land had a special purpose if it serves the needs of the military, if it is within the national park. So these changes and additions, we're kind of going back to old solutions that had some results. There are also some objective circumstances that have contributed to the failure of buildings that are built without permission, because the destruction of an object costs a lot, is done on the cost of the state, or the municipality or city, which depends on who controls the construction of the building, and this still depends on the type of building that is being built. The biggest problem is that this is an accepted opinion, a consensus of the authorities and citizens that this measure should not be resorted to because it is deeply unfair. Such an opinion is formed because of the long-standing practice that building the lawless is contrary to the law, but still possible. The poor functioning of the state administration also brings and accelerates illegal construction. The law stipulates that supervision of building an object of importance for the Republic is being carried out by the Ministry. The supervision of the construction of business facilities and residential buildings is entrusted to municipalities, or cities. Using this possibility, the city of Belgrade has maintained control of business and housing for its inspectors, and individual housing is within the jurisdiction of municipalities. When a municipal inspector oversees and threatens to destroy the facility, he gets a response from the future owner that it is business construction and that he is not competent, but city administration. When the city inspector is in control, the owner responds that it is the building of a family home and that he is not in charge. In this way, the law is prolonged if the object is not built. So in this area, the biggest problems are non-application of the law, widespread corruption and poor functioning of the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11174	National MP Dr Pal Shandor, followed by Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11175	Dear colleagues, what I could say about this law is -- at last, it is that the right sanctions are finally applied, the penalty measures appropriate for what is done in the area of urbanism throughout Serbia, and also from their midst, I know something, that it is not allowed. What I have had the opportunity to see in the last month, it assures me that there is a high degree of chaos in this area, which has more or less tolerated all the authorities so far, a high degree of chaos with a high degree of bribery and various kinds of abuses. What can I tell you when, for example, a building permit is issued contrary to the urban plan, and no one is responsible for it. What is now in Article 57 and what is possible is the penalty of 100 to 1,000 new dinars, it is 30 and some marks, that someone will be punished if they verify technical documentation that is contrary to urban permits, if they issue a permit against regulations or issue a permit against regulations. However, there is yet another degree that I dare say is the most corrupt, which no one punishes. They're the ones who betray the so-called. urban and technical conditions, and based on urban and technical conditions, a building permit is issued. One who issues a building permit does not in principle control urban and technical conditions, because he thinks if it's written it's correct, if there's a proposal, it's okay. I was in a situation a month ago that on one of these urban and technical conditions, it said that it was in line with the implementation of the urban plan here and here, it was said with which members, and when I took to check those members, it was all the opposite. Therefore, not only should penalties be proposed for those who allow and issue those licences in the final instance, but also for those involved in the process of preparing decisions that are incorrect. There's, in fact, a machination. You say everyone's been waiting a few weeks. What happens, say, when a man gets urban and technical conditions in two hours? I'm sure you all think there's something wrong with that. Maybe in a week, in three days, I don't know how much, but in two hours it gets urban and technical conditions or in three days from the moment his construction inspection was there and banned him from further construction, and otherwise he continued to work, then obviously we think and we know, less -- more everyone, that there are some relationships wrong. So I did, of course, bring down everything that was built illegally. I don't believe any simple citizen without great support and powerful influences dared to build objects that didn't have permission. That's, I'd say less -- more raptors, more powerful men, and well-sighted people who can, they think, for small money to buy, pay, pay, and then smile, because that's how they came up with it anyway. Therefore, I would be in favour of the retroactive application of this law, or at some other time, when it comes to its changes, we would have to consider it. If the minister prescribes some regulations on the implementation of these amendments, I would ask him that what applies to the occupation of public areas also applies to the streets. I said this earlier in a private conversation -- it happens that someone in front of their house, allegedly due to a bad sidewalk, the sidewalk rises by 20 or 30 centimeters, completely self-initiative, and takes the water out of his yard in front of the house, so all those other neighbors who don't have money or are poorer and don't lift the sidewalk in front of their house water pours into the basement, the house crashes, etc. What's most dangerous is when the commissioners get distracted by these situations, they say -- what do we do now to bring it down in front of the house, when they've already spent their money on concrete? Because that quota that was registered in the urban plan was raised by 30 centimeters. That's why terrible things happen this way, where they're supposed to make sure that the sidewalk is good, and whoever has to walk down the street or is a little older and doesn't see it can break neck, leg, etc. In America, as far as I know, it's being punished a little more seriously. There can't be any will here. Just one more moment around where there are no urban plans, and they are obliged to report secondary objects. It says in the Law on the Construction of Objects, they are obliged to report secondary objects, but it is not said that there is no construction of auxiliary facilities where there is a detailed urban plan or some regulation plan. Then those in the municipalities say it's not written, but where it's not there it's supposed to be reported. Therefore, I would ask you to follow this law now, if possible, to clarify the whole problem so that those who eventually have dilemmas about implementation and are deliberately not implemented properly, and the dilemmas are resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11176	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by the MP Dr Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11177	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction of Objects is one in a series of laws that the Serbian Government is setting an example of the most drastic obstruction of this parliament. I would not even call it obstruction, but harassment by the public, the citizens and the MPs in this assembly. Let us remember that there were laws that were passed, and then withdrawn, and then another law that had been debated for a week, and then withdrawn, and then proposed new laws that had been discussed on committees, proposed amendments, and these legal proposals were withdrawn, and I think that this bill would have the same fate. Why would he live? Because this bill is a restrictive, rigorous law, which I would call first and foremost - amendments and additions to some criminal law, because in this law we only have two or three members who point to what should be punished and all the criminal provisions remain, an increase in the items, to prevent something that cannot be prevented. We expected the ministry to deliver a comprehensive bill to us, but here is a partial solution, a solution that leads nothing, and I don't see that it will deliver final results. What do you say here? The facility to be built, i.e. the construction of which is completed without a building permit cannot be connected to an electrical and telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage. It means that all those hosts, all those who have managed to create a roof over their heads, cannot join, and it is known that accession is being made, must pay for all these communals and bring them into one state that this law will have devastated building facilities that will not serve the people, thanks to this bill. Serbia's assembly passed the Law on Urbanisation as early as 1997, but the law is not applicable, and that is what is most important, most expected, to legalise all that is illegal, which is illegally built. I don't agree with Pal Shandor's idea that it's necessary to bring down all the illegally built objects. That can only be said by someone crazy. And to apply this law retroactively is some crazy solution, an abnormal solution. I just agree that those facilities that are jeopardizing local infrastructure should be removed, and I mean first of all the plumbing, power grids, sewers, plumbing and so forth. Everyone else needs to be forced, whether it's legal, whether it's a natural person to legalize that facility. Then it is necessary to approach the development of plans, both regulation and urban, detailed, general, as you call them, to review land books. So it takes a lot of these preconditions to be done to access the construction of a legal project that would have that purpose to prevent further construction of illegal objects. Only in this way can it affect the citizens and the people of Serbia. Until the moment when the building permit is very difficult, the urban plan is being forced, and the people will still have to work on the wild. Whoever bought the plot prepared some construction material will certainly not wait five years to get a building permit, but will invest the material, and then will continue the process to exercise those rights. So in order to solve this problem, I suggest that the minister withdraw this bill, because the people should not be punished for what they didn't do, because they were doing something that they had to do. Then, to access the legalisation of illegally built objects, normally those objects that do not endanger the housing structure, and according to those most favourable conditions for the public, then to pass a comprehensive law on the construction of residential buildings, to make land books, and to simplify the way to obtain a building permit. It's the only way to prevent wild construction. All these criminal measures, criminal provisions, will not affect the prevention of further construction by wild construction. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you that Friday at 6:00 p.m., in the Republic Square, a patriotic gathering is taking place and I invite the citizens and you to come and attend.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11178	People's MP, five minutes and twenty-five seconds, with time overruns, and leaving the topic. Please don't make it any more. There's a word from MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11179	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, we have an important law ahead, which should begin to solve a burning problem for Serbia. We have a wild problem now, or if you want, illegal construction, somewhere in the range of about a million objects. And now, the government that submitted the bill may be given recognition of what started and principled the issue, but unfortunately, in the wrong way. The problem of wild construction in Serbia is not the problem of individuals who have built these buildings, it is not their fault, it is the fault of political authorities, which has been in this space for half a century. Politics was such that in Serbia, and especially in Belgrade, as many homeless people as possible, a proletariat, an industrial proletariat, whose housing issue was unable to resolve. People lived by the mansards, by the basements, by the families of five or six members, in a 30 square-square area, etc. Not only were ordinary citizens in these conditions, but they are in these conditions today. In these conditions, we have military and police personnel today whose housing issue this country has been unable to resolve. In these conditions, where the building permit could not be obtained, but 1% alone, the time of corruption has come to the extent that 50 thousand marks were required for the building permit. It's the largest degree of corruption in this domain in the world, which I know. I used to live in America, and I know how to work there -- getting a building permit in America is a mere formality, everything is foreseen by the urban plan, you just present the project, and immediately tell you where you can build this project, put it up, and everything is fine, to connect and sewer, electricity, phone, and everything else, and that facility to fit into the ambience and the purpose of that neighborhood, where that facility needs to be raised. We don't have anything like that in Serbia. We have one complete building disorder, neither the streets are paved by measure, nor the construction is systematized, nor there is an urban plan, nothing. Everything has to start over. Instead of the government starting to draw up first urban plans, to provide infrastructure for the connection of sewers, power and telephone, it came with a law prohibiting electricity, water and telephone connections, in already built facilities, which is a direct blow to human rights and the dignity of Serbian citizens. This law, as proposed, is not to be accepted. He must return to work, processing, and the government must come before the Assembly with a single full law on building buildings, not with this radical opposition, which is nothing like nothing, which will face sharp resistance from at least three million Serbian citizens affected by such a law. Gentlemen, people have not had the opportunity to solve their housing problems, have not had the opportunity to start their families, and what else they have left but to leave this country, to move around the world, and therefore today we have four and a half million Serbs displaced around the world. How is one of these people gonna get back, if he can't get permission to build an apartment, solve the roof problem over his head? And how is it going to solve the housing issue of this huge number of refugees in Serbia, if they can't build a house, where can they be placed? No building permits, no getting to them. I know cases where a certain gentleman, who is no longer alive, has asked for 50,000 marks for a building permit, and a temporary building permit. In such conditions, people have no other choice but to build wildly. These people should be congratulated for making these facilities, for resolving the housing issue for two million Serbian citizens, at least, if not three million. The government should give them diplomas, thank them for this venture, for resolving the housing issue for so many citizens, and not now bringing them bill proposals, to make them go to jail, to punish them, not to allow them to connect the phone, the plumbing and the electricity, to keep those two million citizens in one subordinate position, where their constitutional and human rights are being trampled. I would also like to ask Mr. Minister to withdraw this bill and come before the Assembly with a new bill that will meet our situation and needs of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11180	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11181	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think it's realistic that I join a number of those who spoke here today and who suggested that the Minister withdraw this amendment and supplement of the Law from the procedure, because this part deals with the consequences, not the causes. I think a better reception would be attended by a proposal to amend and supplement this law that would regulate a way to make it easier to get permission, since we're talking about permission here, which is a bigger problem for private persons. And those who work in companies who have sought various consents know that the mare is pre-encouraged, than it is given certain consent, and it is done in 11 months, so it is better to make one supplement and that part has been sanctioned, to enable those who seek it, whether they are private persons, whether they are firms, to be able, in a faster and more effective way, to obtain the right, when they apply, to give them a positive or negative solution. Then, to make time for those to whom the request has been made, he must respond to it, in order for the area to be resolved differently. It says that there should be absolute order in this area, it says that there are too many illegal shops, but the fact is that most of it is more of a pain than a whim. It seems that it's from both whim and obsessing, it's not questionable. It seems that most of this was out of short supply, as many municipalities did not regulate the urban part in their midst. I think with a proposal like this, which is very restrictive, which will drive most of Serbia into prison if it is strictly applied, I don't think it can be a goal for anyone, and I don't think that's basically what the Proposer intended it to do. The strict application of this before seems like it, rather than something else. I mean, if it's been half a year since this government's been in power, there's been some regulation expected, a more complete regulation is expected, not just a regulation that will introduce some new things. It's not a problem in this part that it's just changing this part about fines, that it's so much, it's okay, it's consistent with some other stuff. That wouldn't be a problem either, but this part of it that talks about one to three years in prison. Turns out someone who connects one and three gets four years. A lot of people didn't go to jail for killing a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11182	The session will continue at 15.00 hours and 30 minutes. The first MP in the afternoon work is MP Marin Kresic, and then MP Natasa Jovanovic. [[After a break.]] I ask the People's MPs to continue the session to determine the quorum. Here you go. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the afternoon. The People's Messenger Marin Kresic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11184	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, I would like to ask you to listen to me because I have a need, and since I am a quarter of an urbanist century, I would like to clarify some of the topics that have been mentioned today from that angle. I think that also applies to all of our parliamentary groups today in parliament. I'm going to try very briefly, on three subjects, to explain exactly what we, from the point of view of my profession, are talking about here today. One topic is legislation, which is often mentioned today, and which I would briefly explain to you, where we actually arrived and why we are here. The second topic is what is actually this unplanned construction that we're talking about. It's the third order of this legal document. About the laws: 10 years after Alexander Josipovic's regulatory plans for that part of Belgrade that lies in the bar, Jevrem Grujic, then Serbian Justice Minister Književina, asked for the codification of the law that regulates the area. Since then, many years later, the Serbian engineering spirit has stuck to these codifications. The result of half a century around, the legal regulation of construction in Serbia was what I now have in my hand, which is the construction law of 1931. It was for our cities and our construction practice back then, and probably now, it was the best legal document. At the time he was brought in, he was evaluated by experts as the best in Europe, if not in the world. He was going somewhere until 1965. There are written clues that both Macedonians and some Bosnian architects asked that it continue to apply. After the war, construction was regulated by orders and regulations since 1948 and beyond, it was not touched by legislation. In the 1960s, with the amendment of the constitution and the end of the 1960s, with the adoption of a resolution on Serbia's spatial order policy, we are actually being introduced into our legislation by a huge forest, because the laws are beginning to multiply and to mix topics. The legislation also includes social planning, and self-government planning and socialist production models, etc. That's where that noise begins and there's the root of the law that's in force today. From 1967 to 1974, with a new generation of laws, then in 1985 with the second and 1995 were actually documented laws that regulate urbanism. The 1995 Law Package, unlike this law under which our townships were mainly built, led to the whole legislative matter dealing with procedures, content, not construction, building rules and building methods. As legislation drifted away from practical topics, this field was occupied by illegal construction. Irregular construction has several types. It's not all the same. There's a building on the plots where the builder would have the right to build a wall, and he didn't get his license, he didn't take it out because he didn't have a plan or because he didn't ask for it. There's usurping, building where there's no right. Usurpation can be an usurpation of public interest and other private interests. The criminal provisions, which we now have before us, are good, but I believe that in practice they will be evaluated differently. Every usurp is also an usurpation of the right and of everyone's other rights. Whoever does not comply with the laws and does not ask for permission, although the path to them is complicated, it violates the right of someone else. And finally, what this law says. This law says you don't have to scare the people. This doesn't apply to what's happened so far. He says, we are ready now to enter a new package of laws, and we will try to make it as close as possible to practice and as similar to the 1931 construction law. Until then, please stop. This law refers to the fact that any future construction will be severely punished if it is not planned and authorised. So there's no place to scare the people. Here, it's the fifth minute, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11185	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, and after that, MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11186	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Objects is something that will cost the principled DOS power anyway, the majority in this assembly, and because it is not what the DOS majority advocated in their pre-election promises, as well as because it is another one in a number of deceptions in front of Serbian citizens, the general public, regardless of whether those who will be directly affected were those who do not have a license, regardless of what the minister indicated that the law did not retroactively build around a million objects. Especially because of the fact that even before the adoption of such legislation, which is mostly only with enormous criminal measures towards those who without permission to start building a housing facility, something has happened that has shown the true nature of the government. I will illustrate it to you on the case of only one municipality, the municipality of Zemun. There, dozens of objects were destroyed in the most vandal way, by bulldozers. It literally destroyed every brick, every crep, without being able to use at least part of the building material. To me, it's amazing what Minister Šumarac said yesterday. He said, "Objects of importance... ", he divided the facilities, made some sort of classification. There are three categories of objects that have been built in a number of years without a building permit. He said that the third category consists of buildings built on important infrastructure routes, such as pipelines, roads, and they must be destroyed. If Minister Shumarac would tell me what people are and what objects are built on the pipeline line, it would be good for us to know. Every logic leads us to believe that no one was allowed to build any object on the pipeline. Or it was an imprecise way of expressing the minister, which certainly the minister must not allow himself. There are many who have no roof over their heads, and they have to provide it for themselves, because every man, and especially people who base their family, want to solve it in an adequate way, by some modest means. Many separate from their mouths, from what they should give their children, for years, to build such a roof over their heads. The question is, what's that man supposed to get now so he can start construction without going to jail for a year, and he's been an investor for three years. He has to get a property list, a copy of the plan, well, a report on the purpose of the plot, to see what the urban conditions of the municipality he lives in, well, urban license, various consents: from Elektroprivreda, via "The Waterway". All of it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, costs a lot. When you ran in municipalities and cities across Serbia, in the September elections, you did not promise citizens that with such a high tax policy, you would charge the budget and you did not promise to use such rigorous sanctions, such criminal provisions to warn every individual who tries to build a roof over his head, that it would cost him a lot, that it would go to jail for that. Unlike you, the SRS has always advocated local self-government being effective. The functioning of local self-government, it costs, it has no budgets, especially under DOS government, especially in cities with city status. Citizens who choose that power should be able to control it and not be the subject of experiencing various inspection services. It starts with construction, through the authority of the administration that needs to assist the Directorate for Urbanism and other services that need to help citizens get to the permits to start building the facility. On the other hand, the law provides for criminal and legal sanctions that I have mentioned, which are absolutely unacceptable. First of all, we are miprincipillically performing in all segments of public life when we talk about everything that is our consistent plot, and when it comes to criminal law, we consider that it (President: Five minutes 30 seconds) should be codified. But it's not just our mere pawns and empty stories, as is the case with DOS authorities who want to go to Europe on the one hand and want to, when it suits it, codification, and when the interests of individuals are at stake, it's deviating from that rule. (President: six minutes. ) And if the law is not applied retroactively, the use of permission and the efforts of those who are yet to raise a residential facility, the object in which they are going to do something, to do it, and that is particularly true of hundreds of thousands of workers who are going to lose their jobs, it is questionable. Because such rigorous conditions rarely come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11187	He has the word National MP Miroljub Veljkovic, followed by Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11188	Honorable MPs, the problem of wild construction, or illegally raised objects, is certainly a problem that burdens the state. But I don't think that's the most priority problem right now for the government to put it in front of this parliament by an emergency procedure. There are much more pressing problems ahead of this country and this government. First of all, national-state problems. Then, the problems of the collapse of the economy, i.e. the absence of any economic activity in this country. Extremely high social tensions that threaten to turn into social unrest. Here, today I'm reading in the press that the villagers in Vojvodina are threatening to bury the Minister of Agriculture with stale manure. Imagine we run out of such a minister? Then there is the problem of inadequately prepared law on its own transformation, etc. But if the government has already considered this to be the most urgent, most important thing right now, let's analyze this draft law that's ahead of us. First of all, we need to start with a few facts. The first fact is, according to the government's recognition, a million illegal buildings have been erected in this country. That's one huge population in this story. So, the circus, three million people are involved in this story, the story of illegal objects. We've heard such words here -- that it's the urban mafia, etc. I don't argue that it existed in the previous period, and it exists now. But we're not gonna say that three million people belong to the urban mafia, are we? The other fact that we should go from is that of these millions of erected objects, a hopelessly small number of objects that had some commercial effect. So it's a financial-economic effect. Hopeless is a small number of these housing facilities that have, for example, been found and valorized on the market and had some financial effects. As for that, if such objects have been erected in the previous period and have been raised without permission, I agree with the Government there, that there should be ruthless. However, gro, you can even say 99% of these illegally raised objects in the previous period have raised poor people. In the lack of hearing from the state and local self-government, the poor managed. So, married women, married, someone built a kitchen, two, three rooms, etc., and most importantly, these illegal buildings were built on their own land or on their existing facility. Be assured that these sharks that built the business-house facilities did it in a legal way or quasilegal way. And one huge mass, one huge population in the absence of legal regulations, goodwill, and hearing of municipal leaders, did it as she had to. I would also remind you of the fact that, due to the war in the environment and the war itself in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, about a million refugees have agreed to Serbia. And these people rightly solved the minimum housing problems. With full right, I note. They used to do it legally, sometimes illegally. When they did so illegally, it was mainly due to the lack of auditory self-government, with the honorary exception of the Zemun municipality, while Serbian radicals were in power. The next fact to be taken into account is that urban regulations are exclusively in the jurisdiction of local self-government, i.e. municipalities. Yesterday, Minister Shumarac told us that everything in this country in the past 10 years has died, only wild construction flourished. Thank God, you came to power and now everything is booming, honey and milk flowing. I would ask Mr. Shumartz - if it is true that urban regulation is under the jurisdiction of municipalities, who has been in power in municipalities since 1996, in 60% of municipalities? You DOS political parties, which now make up DOS. Minister Šumarac used the term that the old city core was attacked. I ask him who attacked the old core in Piroth, Nis, Belgrade, the King, Kragujevac, Zrenjanin? We know that this was done by the Deputy Prime Minister of Cass in Subotica. Isn't that right, Mr. Pal Shandor? So you've had power since 1996, and someone's been attacking the old core there, that is, working on old construction and building illegal buildings. If these are facts, what would a smart state administration do, what would a state administration run by Serbian radicals do? First, under the existing Law on Legalisation of Lawless Objects since 1997, it would give a deadline for all citizens to, for example, by 31. 12. In 2001, applications and legalize their facilities, and then she would give a 10-year deadline to pay it off on extremely favourable financial terms. So, all those leftover communals and those obligations they have toward the municipalities and the state. (President: 6 minutes. ) Then, at the cost of changing the Constitution, the smart state administration would legalize city building land and transfer it to private property. This would speed up trade in city building land, thus opening up a perspective for the construction of individual housing facilities. Then, the smart state administration would speed up individual housing. For a long time, we won't, except for individual housing, be able to build housing. (President: 6.30 minutes. The housing problem is, and I would remind you that we have an example of the Cypriots from Kosovo, a vital national state interest. Only after all these measures could you go out with such a law in front of this congregation and with the full right to ask us to be extremely hard on people who would illegally raise an object, otherwise, at this point, it's immeasurable. You're not gonna arrest the poor girl for raising two or three rooms when she married her son? (President: 7 minutes. In the end, Mr. Minister, I urge you to withdraw this law from the assembly procedure, to access the legalization of these objects that are illegally erected and only then come out with one such rigid law. We also warned Mr. Djelic not to accept the pay grade law. (President: 7.30 minutes. ) You have been misbehaving here, whether out of pride or ignorance, but yesterday, Mr Djelic had to withdraw it. It's strange that he did it outside this congregation. However, after Vidovdan this year, nothing surprises me from Kostunica and Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11189	The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11190	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that we as political competition can challenge each other. I agree that the task of the opposition is to correct power, but I think there are more grateful topics for political disputation than this one, because, in itself, this topic that will overcome our power. As a consequence, it will also be subject to some future authorities, as has been inherited not only by the previous government, but it seems to me that this is a problem that has been moving back decades. By reading some laws, I have encountered legal initiatives in 1960 that the government is trying to solve the problem of lawless construction, which is due to certain social difficulties facing our society, if you will, political incompetence of the authorities. So the problem is also too wide to be able to come down to the mere accusation of those who are trying to solve it, because this is not a politically profitable bill, but it is politically necessary. Let me remind you that we have a period of great heat ahead of us. Already today, we have a water supply problem in suburban Belgrade settlements. Not because the water line is not working well, but because the planned facilities with which the Belgrade water supply is undermining the needs of the suburban population are inadequate for a large number of illegally connected citizens and households to that same water line, thus dissuading those who have a full right to such a type of service. The law that we are changing was passed in 1995 and was then changed in 1996 and 1997. The fact that a solution to one problem has been sought three times gives the right to the initiative with which the government faces parliament today. This isn't a final legal proposal. This is not a law that will in itself remove all the problems that exist, but it is a law that will be precedentd in one: one that tries to build lawlessly in the future must count on sanctions. This does not sanction those who have so far been illegally built. Not millions of citizens who have built one room, built a attic, will be subject to this law, because it is retroactively not applied. But we must once put on a ramp and say that there is a law in Serbia and that some order is respected. Legalisation procedures have been initiated over the last few years several times. We agree that in the vicinity of Belgrade, there are settlements that are the largest wild settlements in Europe, that 10km from the centre of Belgrade, from this assembly hall, in the 21st century, there are settlements in which 50,000 citizens live without sewage, without plumbing, without fixed telecommunications routes, without a solution to the issue of electricity supply. Those are very serious questions. We can discuss how these issues should be addressed, how these problems should be legalised, or how to address these problems to a legal process. But we must once prevent an uninterrupted repetition and an extension of that sequence suddenly. Everything has its own limit. I don't want to talk about the Zemun municipality and what the municipal authorities face today when they solve some problems. But I also don't think there's any political argument in accusing some other municipalities, when it's known that by law, I can quote you members, was the unhindered role of the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism. It was also a big part of the City Secretariat for Urbanism, but as a rule, problems have always been solved at the level of the Republic. It was an anomaly of our local self-government, because it could not automatically protect interests, rights, and define the obligations of those citizens it allegedly needs to serve. Here are several examples - the municipality makes a decision that considers a certain building initiative illegal. But who should make that decision? The appeal proceedings are initiated before the municipal courts. The municipal courts were, as a rule, in conflict with the municipal authorities. Even when the municipal court makes a decision, the SUP refuses the decision to implement and initiate a second-degree procedure, etc. The problems are getting around. Today we are in a situation that is very difficult. We must prevent these things from happening again in the future. I think it's a much greater responsibility not to the citizens and to the individual who makes the attic, but to those who made the business empires, and that they didn't pay a dime in the name of the communal costs they had to pay, that they didn't pay the dinar in the name of all those permits they were obliged to pay. (President: 5.30 minutes. ) Can I use my second call? There's a lot of these examples. Minister Šumarac can introduce you to all complexes of private facilities that use energy, water, illegally delay waste without respecting any segment of the law. These amendments and additions to the law prevent and no longer tolerate such behaviour in the first wave. The municipal authorities and the republican administration are obliged to provide, within the prescribed time limit, all the services they are obliged to provide, because they are otherwise responsible for the violation and non-compliance of the law. There is no point in pointing out examples of law non-compliance because a lot of criticism is being referred to the municipal authorities, because of the entire settlements raised in an accelerated process of the problems facing the Zemun municipality today. There are individual irregularities in it, but there are some truths. About 60,000 refugees arrived in the municipality of Zemun from 1995 to 2001. It's a problem facing the municipal government as well. As they solved it, whether they had a better way to solve it or not, it's the subject of a more serious debate, but in itself, if it was precedentd in 1995, when the rules of the settlements were in the planned dumps, which is why today from Zemun is being delayed at the dump that is in Panchev. It doesn't have to be tolerated like that in the future. Some situations were precedentd, but those precedents must not become rules. Therefore, this law clearly sanctions the role of those who go into illegal construction, in terms of investors and those who agree to an illegal type of work, for profit, so to those who work in construction. I think it's our obligation, that we must finally undo the sign of equality that stood in our society between those who break the law and those who respect that law. It wasn't easy to get a building permit, but there's a lot more of those who got it than those who didn't. If those who have agreed to comply with the law were obliged to comply with their obligations, and we are obliged to issue an account, if not to those who have not done so so far, and then to those who think that they are acting in the future, otherwise any law in Serbia will lose its meaning. There are a lot of problems that have led to such a catastrophic situation, but we have to deal with them. There's no point in trying to make a party profit, because pride itself is so tragic that each of us will lose if it goes in such a way to solve it. I've set an example of the Zemun municipality. There are several other examples, which are very serious. There are several social bombs in Serbia that will destroy not the municipal authorities, not the DOS, but the lives of our citizens, precisely because the consequences that we are experiencing today -- what they are and if there is no political agreement on a few things. First, these problems must be solved in accordance with the Law. Secondly, those who enforce the law must be effective, and we will have Serbia that will look like the Wild West in American movies. The pioneers have a start line and start for the water boilers, and that's theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11191	People's MP Pal Shandor called for a replica. The basis of the replica? You're mentioned by name, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11192	Mr. Veljkovic always wants to get me into an awkward situation, mentions my name, please look for a stenogram and mentions things.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11193	I know the name was mentioned, it was recorded, but he called you, the name was put in context, for a witness in his register about the President of the Subotic Assembly, to be perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11194	I can only say this, I don't like being interpreted by others, but III - 0364215/95, 10.07.2015, a sales contract concluded on June 10th 1995 between the Municipality of Subotica, represented by Secretary Esso Agoston Gabriela, a graduate lawyer, on the one hand, as a seller in the further text and so on, and Hajduk Inge of Subotica, Kumrovska number 3, by Father Joseph, born in 1973, as a buyer, on the other hand, and a chapter one or Roman one, says - a seller of sales, and a buyer buys a property registered in the UK... built on a plot of this and that, Kelebia, in the area of 9 acres and 80 meters, through a direct contract, and after a failed public competition, on 30 June 1995 and why someone else couldn't buy through a direct contract, I don't know. Please, I don't really know if this facility was built with permission or without permission. There was no permit and so on. It's not mine to check and I'm not in a situation, because Veljkovic has brought me so suddenly into an awkward situation, but what I was saying today was directed to Mr Veljkovic that all those who build illegally and have such a situation must sometimes be punished and that they don't think it can be legalised or not. Whether this is a particular case, whether it's a case or not, I really don't know, and don't put me in an awkward situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11195	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, followed by Ljubivo Slavkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11196	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of Objects, finally in Serbia, in the urban part, can freely say, introduces order. This proposal by municipalities and cities in Serbia should release the attacks of those people who thought money could simply do anything. Kragujevac is one of the cities in central Serbia that has felt the effects of urban savagery. Namely, the 1970s and then 1980s period is a dark page in the work. It is a time when Serbs were leaving our southern province, simply chasing into the cities of central Serbia, such as Kragujevac, Kraljevci, Kruševac and other cities, and during that period, wild settlements were created without any plan and without any permission. The state did not want to solve this problem at the time, and the owners of such facilities demanded that municipalities provide them with the necessary infrastructure. Municipal urban plans then simply fell into the water. The second period is also tragic, since 1990. Urban savagery continues with people who became rich overnight, who were close to previous authority, so logic dictated that their power coronated with an illegal object. What kind of power and force is that if there's nothing to follow. It must not be forgotten that in the past period, then, we have been left with the possibility of these and such objects being legalized. The deadline is, if I'm not mistaken, and Mr. Minister will correct me on November 4, 1995. I think there's a very small number of such people who have legalized their objects in their own way. The government of the Republic of Serbia, I may say, has taken a bold stand with wild construction, because another instrument to stop wild construction in Serbia is simply gone. In Serbia alone, my dear gentlemen, there is a term -- wild construction, there is no such term in all of Europe. The fact is, and here I agree with individual debaters, that the procedure for obtaining a building permit is very long and complicated, from the urban services, and then land-booking solutions, then copies of the plan, so that it's looking for urban - technical conditions for construction, whether it's building, building, or building up, so it's getting urban permits, building a project, and eventually making deals with the City Building Land Fund, and definitely getting permits, and it's a really strong period. That's where I agree. Gentlemen of the Socialists, we must not forget, you have foreseen this procedure and you have created this procedure and you are the cause of this problem and here to be realistic. But despite such complicated procedures in Kragujevac, and I believe that in other cities across Serbia, an average of three to four months is needed to obtain permits. Also, claims that certain fees, specifically for urban land, are high, do not stand. The decision of the Kragujevac City Assembly on city building land in Article 5 provides for an amount of 2% of the market value per square metre, new housing, which in the extra zone in Kragujevac would amount to about 20 German marks. You will agree that this is quite an appropriate sum of the economic power of citizens. Every municipality and city have their own urban plan. Whether he's detailed or general, it's an obligation that municipalities and cities bring. It predicts the city's appearance during a certain period. Are we allowed to tolerate more the chaos of an investor, which builds an object in a place that may be designed to build an object according to the urban plan, or maybe pass the street? Can we tolerate more the creation of whole streets, like one in Kragujevac that was created under the power lines? This law is simply necessary and there is no, we have to do it again, and that is what my predecessors said, there is no retroactive fact, but it will apply to those who resist and continue to do what they did. We're not trying to stop the wild construction that the previous government nursed and guarded. The law is necessary and wants to introduce order in the area of Serbia's urban development.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11197	The People's Messenger Ljubovoje Slavkovic has the word, and after him, the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11198	My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, since I have spent my entire working life in construction, I am giving myself the right to comment on the experienced bill and what I thought the bill should contain or what the documents, which it intends to bring forward in the future, contain. Wild construction is not the problem of these authorities or the previous ones or those before it. Wild construction is a problem that was created in the second half of the 1960s, exploded in the '70s, when we all lived well and had big salaries and all built houses and cottages, society built salters, when there were 50 cranes in my town of Nis on Bulevar Lenin, and to this day no building has complete documentation regarding the building permit. To this day, when there are only two cranes in my city, there are two soloists doing it and both are doing it contrary to the existing law, because there is no complete documentation. I'm sure property-legal relations aren't over. So I think this bill tried to treat the cause, not the consequences. I know that all of us as a people are inclined to avoid the law a little bit, but for wild construction I condemn the state more than the people, I condemn more the local self-government in whose exclusive jurisdiction was to grant building permits and less the ones who built it. If I shared my working century with what I was building and how much time I spent in various bureaucratic structures to get building permits and other permits, it would probably be 70% of the time in municipalities and counters, and 30% closing investment documentation and financial structure for buildings. For this reason, I believe that, as far as the documentation necessary to obtain a building permit is concerned, it cannot change much, but the state, if it wants to punish its citizens, first has to arrange its own house, which is local self-government, the body that has to give a building permit and that it has a clear tool in what time it is obliged to give me consent or not to give consent to its opinion. Other utility companies, in which time the administration authority is obliged to respond to the citizen whether or not he's got a building permit, not to carry small bribes, to wait years for me to use connections and connections as some kind of local official to get what the state owes me and what he has to give me in time. When the state settles that part, then it has the right to address citizens in such a drastic way, and if necessary even more drastic ways. Like this, I don't think it solves in a complex way the problem of wild construction. I'm the director of the city heat plant in Nis. There's been a city heat in Nis for 30 years, and the moment we're trying to build a loft on a building, we can't get a building permit, because property-legal relations aren't over and they're going after some man who died 20 years ago. So I propose to the ministry that the directive to local self-government be given to all objects, and unfortunately, since there is not much money in this country, more upgrades are done, at least as far as social facilities are concerned. Where a building permit has been issued earlier, that every investor is given a building permit without discussion, because the authority of the administration, because the court is guilty that the previous documentation has not been completed and implemented. If a valid permit was granted for one facility, then the court was obliged to have a purchase contract or in any way to regulate the property-legal relationship, to transfer it to land books or at least through a cadastre. If you're in a position today to offer your apartment that's in a social building as a mortgage for a loan, you can't do it or the crowd can't do you, because your apartments aren't being seduced where they're supposed to be seduced, and that's what the state was doing, not a radio citizen. For this reason, I personally do not support this problem in part.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11199	The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and then the Messenger of the people, Dr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11200	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an object that needs to be subdued, which has been illegally erected and raised by farmers of 50 bales outside the front door of Mr. Minister of Agriculture Veselinov, but they are preparing another object that will also be illegally erected, which is from a stale garbage. Ladies and gentlemen, the man who is vice-president of the government, during NATO bombings has erected lawless facilities in Loznica, and this is Mr Nebojsa Covic. Will these objects collapse or will they require permission for these objects? Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, New Democracy celebrated her birthday. There were all significant, DOS cream society, so starting with Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, Batic. Today, a law is being discussed for workers who do not have a salary to discuss, about their facilities, if they have been illegally raised, that they should collapse. The largest building facility that has been illegally built without all the accompanying building permits is the DOS government on 5 October. From that day on, we Serbian radicals have set out to bring down this lawlessly designed facility, as it includes the greatest traitors of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11201	I ask the MP to discuss the subject and use a polite dictionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11202	We did not accept the way this facility was built because it was composed of bad and corrupt people involved in the crime of oil, cigarettes, drugs, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11203	I ask MP Zivanovic to receive a warning of the language addressed to the National Assembly. The points about who's corrupt and who's the traitor are your personal opinions...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11204	The man most restricted in this crime, the host of the lawlessly walled facility to be torn down, is Zoran Djindjic, and according to Article 52b of this law should be punished for a three-year prison. The culprit for such an improperly built facility is Vojislav Kostunica because he collected all construction material without quality control and with his reputation built this facility, and now tries to conceal it from a construction inspection made of Serbian radicals and participates in everything that has been done, but no longer small children believe that there is a good Kostunica in a badly built building called DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11205	Please, People's Messenger, either talk about the subject or I will be forced to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11206	This law affects those who have been building houses for years, and these are the poorest citizens. It is normal for one who builds a house on his property to barely raise money for building materials and let alone for design, location and all accompanying infrastructure programs. The difficulty of solving the roof over the head requires the state to legalise all the facilities that have been built so far and not subject to some legal norms. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival of DOS to power has destroyed a lot of objects. Whether the buildings for the apartments, or the objects in which the crafts work was done, we found it in Zemun. We have an example that a legal facility, where the owner has fulfilled all obligations to the municipality, has been destroyed in Sapac, and others, owned by DOS sponsors, can raise objects in the forbidden places, and without permission. The building inspection can't work anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11207	I ask the MP to keep in mind that he should speak the truth after the speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11208	That role was taken by the municipality president and federal envoy Dusan Petrovic, it is called DOS justice and democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11209	Five minutes, MP, time for discussion, please finish. I'm sorry, MP. It's time for discussion, according to the Rules of Procedure. I thank you. Dr Branislav Blazic has the word of the People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11210	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, before us here is another law, which is presented as a reform law, which will change a lot of the negative that has happened to us for decades, I can tell you, in Serbia. But is that how it is presented, it shows that this law is another one in a series of similar laws -- with several members, made for months, and here it has been put before us as an amendment to the Law on the Construction of Objects. Once again, we have nine members in total, nine months from DOS authorities, each month one member is written here, and of all these members, two members define the legal issue that is involved, and seven members are criminal provisions. And it all comes down to it -- 30,000, 50,000, 100,000, three years in prison, repressivity, totalitarianity, that's the characteristic of at least 90% of the changes offered so far and the addition of existing laws. Sometimes a man wonders - why and why in people who write these laws so much restrictions and desire to take something from the citizens, to be punished somehow, and that the basic, essence of the problem in the given area, doesn't touch or change at all. We can do it through one psychological analysis of the entire DOS government, but I think it takes time to go through, to define the real reasons for all of this. I think one reason, perhaps, is to stay in opposition for a long time. For many years, staying in opposition, in a desire to come to power, probably defines people in psychological terms as one accumulation of some destruction. This accumulation of destruction is now manifested in the desire to pass such and similar laws. It's one of the possibilities to explain all of this, which has its real background, and the other might be to come to power through revolutionary moves and this revolutionary enthusiasm and all that promised, the desire to make some quick changes. It may have occurred to the situation to slowly cool their heads and realize that it is not all as it was thought and that life certainly does not start from some people and from their coming to power. The essence of this problem is here, and surely the problem is huge and should be put into battle with it, solved, but not in this way by repressive measures, only by criminal policy trying to remove the main causes of illegal construction in Serbia. They were never able to achieve effects by restrictive measures, if the essence of the problem is not seen. We have a million illegally built objects in the previous period, and now we have to define the reasons why suites are made. Well, by solving those reasons, or by treating those reasons, we can get to the point where we really have an orderly state and an orderly society. There was a law before this, of course, there was a criminal policy before this one. However, it has either not been implemented, or could not be implemented, or simply, it is not a way to solve and correct these huge problems. Here's the question, I agree, and that's probably very good, because this is the first law that doesn't have retroactive action, because as we're used to with DOS authorities, all laws are retroactive. But this one doesn't have that retroactivity, and that's good. But what may be unfavourable again is that in the beginning, and the Priory, it rejects the possibility of destroying some objects, and everything is placed under the same basket. We can't put under the same basket people who built their houses on their land, and some who built villas on the Bath, on Zlatibor, on Tara and so on. Surely these facilities built in national parks must eventually be destroyed because there is no way to legalise them. If such cottages were legalized, in such places that are protected and represent the most vital and greatest good Serbia has, then nothing good would be achieved by this law again. On the other hand, some citizens because of state or municipal bureaucracy, or for some other reason, could not get to the paper, and on their country they built and are in a position to legally get it, and now they need to be punished for it. Therefore, there is a whole series of problems that this law does not solve at all. And what happens to us -- we're constantly being offered some laws, with a couple of members, scratching on the problem, and they're not getting into it at all. Gentlemen, in nine months you've been under obligation, and you've offered for sure, to make one whole, complete law and give it here for debate, to consider all the problems this area has, to define these problems, to find a way to solve them, and then to talk about it. And like this, it really doesn't make sense just to talk about things that don't really solve anything. I'm very interested in -- who are you going to put in jail for three years for illegal construction, and are you going to have any effect on this law at all? Therefore, what is essential and most important in all of this is that it is necessary to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because we have a situation that the property is a citizen, and he cannot build on that salary. Or, if he has an object, that facility lies on a salary that is state property. So, we don't have a crying store. This certainly prevents many people from coming and solving their housing issues. Therefore, it would be good to think, first of all, that citizens should be helped, that all laws that are passed should be in the service of citizens, and not only to think about -- that something will be taken away from the citizen and that someone will be denied his right, but to provide him with the preconditions that he can live, that he can build up, that he can progress, that he can simply give his participation in the overall development of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11211	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11212	This criminal law, or the Law on the Construction of Objects, affects the poorest part of the population. Why do I think so? Because the legislator of this law didn't want to get into the essence of this problem. It's just that this law doesn't solve anything, it just sanctions and punishes cruelly. Who's to blame for having about a million illegally built objects -- the state's fault, the ones who were in power. Who will be to blame if this law is passed - DOS, which is in power. The current Law on the Construction of Objects did not have criminal sanctions, and this proposal has about 70% only punishment and prosecution. We have about 60 criminal laws in Yugoslavia, and you're adding this new one. That, in my opinion, is inhumane, even embarrassing and embarrassing. For me personally, this law is good. Why good - get the DOS down as soon as possible. But I'm not here for myself, I'm here for the citizens who chose me. That's why I don't want this criminal act adopted, because it's the worst. We all know what it's been like in the past when there's been sanctions, wars and so on. The poor part of the people knew and knew how. What's going to happen to so many illegal buildings? Instead of going out to meet, legalizing, you will ruthlessly tear them down, as you now bring them down in Zemun. How can you think and how you'll do when a peasant in the country builds an illegal barn that he needs, one shed that he needs, because we know that, especially in the country, people who build stables, sheds don't have permission, don't ask permission. They're building a room or a house for their son, who wants to stay, to be a paor in the country. How can you take down that house or something? It's safe, and perhaps you, Mr. Minister, and you don't know, I'm talking to the Middle Bantace County, about building sheds, stables, pigs, etc. without a building permit. I think you'll simply realize that this kind of thing doesn't have to be auctioned and that it won't be auctioned. You must have a criterion for those who build on their land, their facilities, for the need for their production, for the most necessary needs of their families and for those who have excess living space or business space. In my opinion, these people should be punished. I would simply suggest two things: first, if you were to withdraw this law immediately. Second thing, you come to the rally at 6:00 p.m. on Friday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11213	The People's MP Vitomir Plužarević has the word, followed by the National MP Vucurović Bozidar.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law suffered various changes and additions in 1995, 1996 and 1997. I don't think this law that's on the agenda today is consistent and that his place and time don't suit him. The purpose of the adoption of this law is contrary to many unresolved issues, such as land-booked and other issues related to cadastre and property. According to some comments in Serbia over the past 10 years, 700,000 doms of illegal objects have been built. These buildings have damaged, or affected many city centers, were built on national parks and on places where this was not allowed. This very fact that these objects were built on the above locations, is not now the subject of debate and will not be retroactively treated by these objects. The law does not decidently state when and how the legislator, or the legislator of this law, will determine certain time distances, i.e. the timeline when the object is started or when it is finished. The aim of this law is to increase fines, i.e. that certain persons are also punished by prison sentences from one to three years. I don't think this kind of measure of law in these economic, political and other conditions will be possible. The bill promoter did not want to get deeper into the problem of all these problems that have been accumulated above, but rather wants sanctions to solve these problems. It is not the same if the object is made on private property or on other property. That's the problem with this law. There's not a single word to be said. The main problem is why there's been wild construction. Who's to blame? It's a country. We know in whatever circumstances we lived and how life flowed. When I think about the vast number of refugees we've placed in a variety of ways. They, some, acquired new families and children, and in one word became residents of these new settlements and these facilities, which they built as they knew and knew. According to the Serbian Constitution, construction land, so far, has not yet been defined whether it is a single, or state-owned property. When this is resolved, which should be state or private property, it will take many more years, and probably the state will have no interest or desire to build larger collective housing facilities, so that every man will have an obligation to provide himself with a roof over his head. It is a desire to raise individual private construction to one higher level, not to prevent criminal measures and sanctions from happening. There were comments that an institution was opened in Novi Sad, i.e. a bureau that would regulate all issues in one place, related to building facilities where a person would be interested in obtaining all possible permits as soon as possible. There was no such thing as this today, so the problem with the license was great. I object to any person going to prison for building, or doing construction work on certain buildings. This proposing style is negative in the first step of thinking about building and designing the country. There's not a single urban plan that's real with the situation on the ground. These are recorded things and differences are drastic. And in my community, from which I come, there are still a lot of objects that were built in the 1960s without being registered in land books until today. I propose in this principle discussion that all starting objects be legalized and that a new quality law regulates this for the next period. Whether public good is threatened or not, whether it's built on its own land or someone else's - there's got to be a big difference. We Serbian radicals want Serbia to have good laws, as well as the surrounding countries would like to invest in our housing building and be satisfied. For example, Belgrade extends to an area of 70,000 hectares. That's the forest, that's the size of three Frusches up there. Now, it takes a lot of quality work for the state and individuals to bring him in for purposes. And that purpose is to make him the metropolis. For this Belgrade and all the towns, Serbian radicals have the right solution. In the old core of Zemun, a shopping centre was built and was already at the heart of all architects and urbanists. It was reported by House Style and other magazines dealing with this topic. That's how it's supposed to fit the antiques with new ideas. They brought down local powers in Zemun, a very nice facility, in a cruel and NATO-vy way, that is, DOS style. Who is in power in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kralje, Kragujevac, Užica, Subotica, and in the previous and current meeting? The urban mafia still works and works today. I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11215	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Srboljub Zivanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to Article 93, which reads: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum at the session of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured." I don't think there's any DOS MPs in the assembly right now and the cards are picked up and the quorum is determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11217	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic is seeking to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to register their presence in the National Assembly Hall with their identification cards. I realize we have a quorum and we continue to work. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, let the MP Tomislav Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if you and I have received one wrong piece of paper that says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is based on Article 90(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 128 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure, a draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law and a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Violations. Because what we've got can only be called that name. In this bill of ten members, there is no one that has a slight connection to the construction of buildings. It only has to do with the disproportionate increase in fines and prison sentences. How? The lowest sentence from the old law remained the same. That's the punishment we're going to pay for, that we're passing these laws. And the next one's been increased 10 times. It is a punishment that some others will pay, who are not obedient enough. Even some among you who are not obedient enough. Whether the intention of this law is to "fill the pockets" of competent and incompetent institutions and individuals, it will come from it. All that the tightening of criminal and criminal sanctions will produce will be a new wave of corruption. Because if the fine is for one offense of 50,000 dinars, it's stupid to ask for more than 500 marks for action or inaction, for paper or for mumbling. But if the fine is 450,000 dinars, there's room for guessing. And that, a very good guess. Or, if the sentence's been in prison for a year and three years, well, there's only one guess. But as my colleague from Kragujevac said, there are 20 marks of city-building land per square. I agree, that's not much. It's a price on parity, a city-building land bill. And how much on parity... It will be decided on the basis of this law. We agree, and we all agreed (they get from the bench: we're not all) that the procedure for obtaining building permits, consent and everything else is complicated. That's where we all agreed. That is why the first law this ministry adopts in this assembly was meant to resolve this complicated procedure, not to decide how much punishment anyone will pay. And it won't be paid by some who messed it up until yesterday, but by those who mess it up from today. This puts those who did not dare to mess up until yesterday in an unequal position, but only today have they dared. Well, they'll pay the fines and go to jail, and those who've built the magnificent buildings won't do anything, of course. All of this could have been solved the other way. It could have been resolved by simplifying the procedure. It could be resolved that local administration authorities are solving and obtaining what citizens need to solve, to speed up the procedure. Because the procedure cannot be changed. Everywhere in the world, we need what we need. But to make sure the authorities of local self-government take care of it and help the citizen get there. As it seems in practice, I can tell you: four years ago I started collecting 30 permits and consent to build an industrial facility that would employ 150 people. Last year I got to 15 and finally gave up. So, once again, like most of the MPs who have spoken so far, I propose that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, to make a proposal to amend and supplement the law that will primarily deal with legalising existing objects in one real way, and not in the way that it has been done so far. Also, on that parity, and only then would the law be passed that would be more severe than this law punish those who violate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11220	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the time to discuss this bill is limited to five minutes, we will talk more about this law at a patriotic rally on Friday, at 6:00 p.m. in the Republic Square. Time is not limited there. You can talk there. I've worked in construction since 1972. About eight years as a performer, and then as an investor. I must say, at that time, the legal person couldn't start building a construction facility unless it had not only a building permit, but also a special account in the SDK provided funds for investment. Unfortunately, that time was long behind us. Serbia faces major problems. They need to be dealt with by the right laws. Unfortunately, this National Assembly, in this assembly, is still awaiting normal laws, and the government is delivering exclusively vengeful laws. Only laws that could be used to avenge someone in Serbia. The Building of Objects Act is being amended. The last change was in 1997. However, Article 2(4) provides that a building permit may be issued for buildings built or reconstructed by 4 November 1995. That was the deadline. This law isn't about moving that deadline. Practically, when this amendment and the addition of the Law enter into force, regardless of what you convince us that it is not retroactive, the law allows you to bring down all objects that were not built or reconstructed by 4.11.1995. Article 43a is changed, added behind Article 43, and says, "The facility that is being built, that is, whose construction has been completed without a building permit, cannot be connected to an electricity and telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage." The law goes into effect in eight days, starting tomorrow, probably. What about the object that's finished? You're saying he can't be connected. You're not saying it can be legalized, so it can be connected, but you're saying it can't be connected. To whom is this authority consecrated? Who made those objects, brought them under the board, eventually covered them, someone omaltered them inside, and many didn't? He can't get water, he can't get electricity, he can't attach to the sewer, and these people don't dream about the phone. Did they avoid it from Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija? Let's think a little bit about these people. Then what? He built a house and now he can't get the power in, now he can't get the water and he can't get the sewer. Will the children learn with the oil lamp, will the disease develop again, will under unhygienic conditions live, will we have favelas around all our cities, will those who are on the asphalt be able to watch those who have invested their money to build a house and now the state does not allow them to live as normal people? I don't see how the legislator of this law thought. Article 52a says, is added beyond Article 52. I warned the minister that a member of 52 years ago was deleted and that there is no law in this law on building objects, so I don't know where you're going to add 52a, but let it be that he will go behind Article 51: "A natural person who is an investor of a building without a building permit will be punished for a crime in prison for up to three years". I purposely threw out "or legal face," I focus my physical face. As far as I know, the only charge against Slobodan Milosevic was that he was building a house without permission. You extradited him to The Hague. (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. Now I don't even know what time it is. It was 7.30 when I started talking. (President: I didn't mean to interrupt. It was 6:30.) Imagine the situation that it's possible that the legislator doesn't know how to build a private house with us, so I'll tell him. For example, the house is built by grandparents, hosts, women and his children, grandson, granddaughter. Everyone can be investors. Granddad can invest some of his assets, Grandma can invest some of his assets, host, his wife, and everyone will go to jail nicely. Since we don't have that many prisons, you can empty these prisons, send people to The Hague, and you can direct investors to The Hague, as Slobodan Milosevic went, to build a house without permission on the Dedinj, to The Hague. (President: Mr. Nikolic, please finish. ) I would really like to meet the legislator of the law with all the shortcomings of the law, because he did not realize that it was not only the repression that solves one problem. I know your bulldozers have been unemployed since October 5th, but don't hire them by tearing down people's private homes. Take down this castle in the Golf Village. Minister, you know who it belongs to. It belongs to this Angelkovic from the Democratic Party. Take down those 5,000 squares built on 7 acres. When you do something like that, then I'll be convinced that you really want to do justice. (President: Mr. Nikolic, please finish. When you mention the earth, when we took power in Zemun, we swore: "Whoever wants to build a house with his money will receive a place in Zemun to build a house." You do so in your municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11222	I'm looking for a right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11223	Mr. Jovanovic, what would be the basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11224	Article 98(1) shall be the basis for the replica. He has injured the reputation of a member of the Democratic Party. I'm based on my right to a replica based on my untruth by the previous speaker. I asked the chairman to interpret whether I was entitled to a replica, and I got it right from him. You have the right to object to the Rules of Procedure, but since he has given me his word, he has assessed that I can exercise my right, and that you then use the right that comes from the Rules of Procedure. There's been an untrue intention to discredit the DS. Mr. Angelkovic not only doesn't have what you've shown here and described as a villa of 5,000 squares at 7 acres, but Mr. Angelkovic doesn't have a single square. As a representative of the DS at the municipality of Chukarica, and then in the city government, he did not take, receive a gift or purchase. He lived with his family modestly in the apartment he lived in 15 years ago. That's true. When we talk about problems and criticise political competition, then we can ask, if we want to be successful, just a basis in arguments and facts. We must be morally capable of accusing others and facing what is the consequence of government. It is true that the Zemun municipality had 60,000 refugees who tried to solve the problem between the rest and the housing problem. But it is true that none of those 60,000 refugees received a gift of one square metre, let alone the ar, as the president of your party, the Zemun municipality at the time. Whether it's true or not, the court will judge. I'm taking something out here based on the documentation we have. When you're politically correct enough, you'll come out with a file on 5,000 squares of Ljubomir Angelkovic, with a gift he received from someone on any basis. I suggest we stay out of this kind of debate, because we're just gonna waste time. The public is well-known for the facts you and we deal with. Your weapon is a lie, and our weapon is a tragic legacy that you have left us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11225	Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11226	You've injured Article 96. Namely, you gave Mr Jovanovic the right to the replica because the Democratic Party was mentioned. Mr Jovanovic is the president of the DOS parliamentary club, not the Democratic Party. Let's just say, if Mr. Michael had mentioned the DSS, if Mr. Michael had come out, everything would have been clear. They have their own parliamentary group, they have nothing in common with you anymore. I would accept that, but as Mr Jovanovic came out, all the other DOS members could come out, because this really concerns DOS. But in my hand, I have a criminal report filed by a citizen, in which he says nicely that based on the statement by painter Alexander Djuric... I guess it'll all be determined... I present to you the fact that Angelkovic, in cooperation with the people of JUL and SPS, did so and that he did indeed an object of 5,300 square meters, and of which 970 squares goes to Angelkovic for the stamps that his wife hit in the municipality of Chukarica, as the responsible person who issued those papers. And the facility was broken when the government was changed. There he is, no one touches him, no one knocks him down. If we want to talk about Zemun, it's not us, we've given the platva to the military disabled, we're not ashamed of it, and everyone else is 20 to 30, starting from 15, but 20 to 30 dinars was a square of land and it was a public auction, nothing in Zemun ever went directly by contract and nothing went under the grain. That's why we're proud of what we did in Zemun. Please, since you're always talking about courts, finish this Zemun. Couldn't you, from October to today, have completed all our machinations in Zemun? Why do you keep threatening us? Let's go to court. Why are you using this congregation to threaten us? Let the judges invite us to court, see what we stole, what we took, don't use the phone booth for lies. At least I never use her for that. There's a regime newspaper here about Angelkovics, all the newspapers today are regimeal. Tell me one thing, except for "The Great Serbian," which is not regimeal, tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11227	Mr. Nikolic, I owe you an explanation. By my deep conviction, the right to the replica of Mr Jovanovic is completely indisputable and is based on the position of Article 2 96. I will quote it and I don't think it will be necessary to move forward: "If an offensive term refers to a parliamentary group, or a political party, whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, has the right to reply to the president of the parliamentary group. "Mr. Jovanovic consumed that right. I don't know what was thought, but Mr. Jovanovic's right was absolutely undeniable. That's why he got the replica. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Vucic, and then by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm just asking you not to give me any time before I speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11229	Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie, we'll extend those 12 or 13 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11230	So, I would just say that the bill, which Minister Šumarac explained to the National Assembly, is one of the worst laws, but at the same time I would say one of the worst-founded laws. In just a few sentences we've heard more political flossules than anything professional, than any of what we might expect in the coming period as the final results of the adoption of this law. What could it do to the state of Serbia in terms of respect for law and order, preventing further illegal construction, in figures, in figures, calculated by any mathematical operation, as it would be like for a minister to come out and show up, as it seems to have come from the tribune of one of the DOS parties and then said what it was we promised in the previous campaign and what it was they had to accomplish. And in doing so, I will now quote, speaking of the King, Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, he attacked Zemun. Why I took this example, I'll tell you now. It's true, Mr. Forester, you attacked Zemun. You attacked Zemun in March of the month, I don't know exactly what date it was, the bulldozers, the cranes, who started to tear down one of the beautiful objects, and people were disgusted, they couldn't believe ordinary people what was going on. And you crashed, in order to make that more clear, besides people having permits and all the necessary papers. You were destroying without the attention of a good host, which you had to do by building ropes, and every brick had to be preserved, and none was preserved. Everything is ruined, all the glass is broken, and to show the power and power of the new government, what reforms are and what democracy is yet to expect. There's just one question to ask, and that's what I wanted to ask, but there was no congregation. Of course, for us radicals there is no television, for everything is found, and for everyone in the opposition, except for us in the SRS. I wanted to ask a question -- and who are these people who are looking forward to destroying something that man built, destroying something that even looks nice, tearing down something that nobody else, except maybe one DOS barista didn't mind. Who are these people who can enjoy it? Like what you're wondering is who are these people who can look forward to the torture of some people, those who go to jail and so on. Simple, what kind of people are these? From a legal point of view, I would say that our criticisms are crucial that they cannot and should not be governed by such a law or enforce criminal - legal sanctions. Penalty sanctions, criminal sanctions and spread, we have more and more examples of secondary criminal law and any new law, whether from labour law, social law, or from the gro-sphere of legislation, extends criminal law, introduces new criminal acts, introduces new criminal sanctions, even deals with measures of general and special prevention, which in no case should be the subject of this law. There are lawyers here, and in the ruling majority, so let them come out and tell you that. You can't do that. The measures of general and special prevention you deal with the Bill on the Construction of Objects. For three years, a man goes to jail because without a building permit, he starts raising the facility. Who will determine whether he started July 10th or started June 10th? Will it be the court's experts to determine, private detectives, whether the concrete's dry enough or not, whether someone in the neighborhood saw it when it was done or not. Who's going to figure it out, how, how it's going to work. It simply seems to me that it is something that is impossible and that shows the absolute illogicalness of the proposed law and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done here. I have to say, there's one more thing I can't really agree with here. It is the state's fault, however in power, that we fully depersonalise that power at both local and central level, that the state is to blame if the building permit requires urban permission, urban conditions, water consent, electricity consent, and conditions should be created for local self-government authorities to do so (by official duty). That it ends in the easiest way possible. To ask everyone here, except those who built for themselves, no one alive knows what he needs. If he didn't get it, and it can be because of the silence of the administration and because of the many problems that exist in the local self-government itself, and because of what someone once asks for, we don't ask for it, but to assume that there isn't one at all, simply because people can't arrive or it's an emergency administration, and that's why someone, due to lack of a building permit, is going to go to three years in prison. Guys, it's too much, it doesn't make sense. You can punish a certain fine, be a lower sentence, but don't... Don't throw Mrs. Ruzdić, or whatever your last name is. It doesn't make any sense, so why don't you come out for a pay phone and say what you think? You've never learned how to talk. You went out here once to talk about the Rules of Procedure and it was pretty insecure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11231	Mr. Wolfie, your time is up, so please finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11232	My time is up. But that's why you didn't mention it once, they get it all the time, they don't even know why they're getting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11233	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11234	I'm bringing the end. I would ask you, and above all, the ruling majority, to reject this bill, to reject it for the simple reason that no one can boast of it. It seems to me that no one from the ruling majority is proud of it, that it is clear to everyone that it is a repressive bill, but this is not a criminal law, so let's say whether those repressive measures are enough as measures of general and special prevention. This is the law on building buildings, which you predict three years in prison for people, and that's what millions of people in Serbia have done, at least a million people. We heard that even many ministers did it in Kaludierica, and so on. It's normal, because everyone did it and now you're gonna put these people away, these people to be arrested for three years, like nobody else in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11235	Mr. Wolfie, you've been talking for two minutes longer than you predicted. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11236	It's as if no one else is thinking about anything else in Serbia, but only how they're going to arrest, how they're going to take care of it, and that's the reform, and that's the democracy that you've gone far away in. And let me just say to the DSS, who talked about the election results. I'm not going to tell them the exact results, say from Futoga, where radicals got more than everyone else together, but don't call on one, but call on many other election results. Somewhere goes well, somewhere bad, but it seems like again about those where you've been a little worse, you haven't been notified as well as in many other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11237	The word is made by MP Dragan S. Tomic, and the following is the registered MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11238	Gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the proposal for this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Objects, there have been very different opinions and it can be said that a good part of those who have had a critical tone according to this law have made real objections to the Proposer, and it is indeed necessary to take another look at this proposal on amendments and amendments to the law for one simple reason, because it is extremely restrictive, and I must say that it also destroys some constitutional rights, the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, and that is primarily the right to work. I'd like to say something about Article 52a of attitude 1 that speaks of an entrepreneur who is a contractor or a responsible person, a legal person who is a contractor and who is scheduled by this law to be punished for up to a year. It's just amazing that someone who, by the Law on Personal Labour or the Company Act, founded an enterprise or an enterprise store, which is mostly a construction store, had an obligation to hire a number of workers - and in particular there is a problem in this area because there are many workers working on black, that is correct, and that should probably be dealt with by labour inspection - and that we are asking him for responsibility because he is a contractor. Its right and obligation under all regulations is to contract a job fairly, build an object by project and hand it over to the future owner, i.e. the investor. None of his obligations exist, nor can they be established by any law, or at least by this law. I think you've given this flagrant violation of the Constitution. You do not have the right in any case to charge someone to plead and perform neither objective nor subjective responsibility on any basis, and especially not on this basis because he was invited to apply for a tender, proved to be the most favourable bidder for the performance of the works, performed the works in good time in accordance with all the positive legal regulations and charged quality of his work. He can't answer for something that isn't his, not on any basis. You have to explain how it can be done. He's obliged to perform his work, to collect his work. That's why you can't have any complicity, not on any basis. He doesn't owe on any basis, except to read the project, to sign a contract to perform the work. It is therefore required to sign a contract for the performance of works, to carry out the works under the contract signed in accordance with the obligations, as set out in the deadlines for the implementation of the works. He is obliged, if the sliding scales are agreed, to suffer burdens on the sliding scales, but he is not obliged to bear the burden and to disturb his right to work. It doesn't exist and you can't qualify it as any category of complicity. It's just impossible and amazing that you've installed this. Secondly, when you limit the right of one category, first of all to entrepreneurs, I have to say that the category of entrepreneurs includes a very colorful diapazon of people from a different world who traditionally, familyly, are engaged in this area or are finishing certain schools, which are specific in this area, have recently established a private company and are doing these jobs. You also restrict his right to work, to what you wrote, let alone have the right to burden him, because with previous legal regulations, and especially in the field of those seven laws that speak of this area, there are several things that restrict his rights. First, a solution is made and works are suspended until the previous situation is resolved. So, until we get a building permit. By the way, he's already in pain for stopping the work. So we can't pull this off and there's no constitutional-legal basis for an entrepreneur, or a contractor, or a responsible person being treated as an accomplice in some kind of procedure. You don't have any valid and reasoned evidence of what you're suggesting, that a man be punished for a felony in prison for up to a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11239	The People's MP Vladimir Garčević has the word, followed by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11240	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, gentlemen of the Parliament, since after my presentation on Monday, one of the MPs asked if I believed in the recent return of Socialist Party President Slobodan, yes, I do, because all he did was for the benefit of the Serbian people. Justice is on his side.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11241	Mr. Garcevic, please return to the subject. You have the right to believe whatever you want, but stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11242	I gave my answer to those who asked me. Secondly, I would like to use it now to ask the minister, since 10,000 apartments have been started, some things have been stopped or things have been slow happening, and I'm asked by the citizens, I would ask you, here is an opportunity to give an answer as to whether these apartments are expected to end this year and whether they will be moved in, I would ask on behalf of the builders who perform works and citizens who have invested certain funds to get to those apartments. If that is not realised, I am telling the citizens of Serbia, by returning to power that we will speed up and build those 100,000 apartments we promised then. When DOS came to power, he promised democracy. I understand that you will give the people an explanation of what democracy is, that you will direct the people as democracy is realized, that you will instruct through courses, through certain topics, through television screens to give an answer to what is happening. Here's a law that's the law to put citizens in jail. Why? If someone without a building permit started building a house as a necessary accommodation or an upgrade, because he couldn't achieve all the documents necessary, you gentlemen, ministers with the Serbian government, you're proposing a prison, and I heard today that one of the MPs said the following -- we copied it from Europe. You offer us from Europe, the citizens of Serbia, a prison of one to three years. I would suggest that there is no prison, but that you teach the citizens how this Europe solves it without criminal measures, without repression and without threats to courts, without the threat of militias, but by tolerance, by mutuality, that objects rise to the benefit of citizens. On the other hand, I would suggest that the law starts to apply the moment when all the objects that are to be started are all objects in the area of the city, and that from that moment on, certain things should be regulated - how to continue to work. Fleeing local self-government from not affecting, but government, etc. - I would agree with Jovanovic in one part: that it was a complex process, that everyone had a certain responsibility, but that certain opportunities were over a long time. First of all, there is no need to run away from responsibility in any local self-government, but work and rule, invest yourself in the benefit of Serbian citizens. If these legal solutions remain, with these threats, let me tell you -- where I come from, I'll let people read, see what it says and what it expects, so if it's democracy, I think in December, in the elections, there won't be such democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11243	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11244	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I had a real intention not to engage at all in the discussion of this law. Since one part of the MPs showed significant ignorance of the existing laws in the area of construction, I felt the need, the truth for their sake, and also for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, to take five minutes to speak anyway. I won't last much longer, I'm sure. First of all, this is a completely unnecessary law, a law written in that true manner that gave rise to titles "and fairies collapse, people go to jail" (typically for DOS regime), a law that absolutely didn't need to be passed in this direction and with these targets, because the target is completely on the other side. I want you to know, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, city building land management is exclusively in the jurisdiction of local self-government. Since the management of city building land is exclusively in the jurisdiction of local self-government, the construction process is carried out in the exclusive jurisdiction of local self-government. That is why we had earlier legal solutions that provided that municipalities could even give permission and only give permission to build dams, railways, roads, railways, thermal power plants and so on. With new legal solutions, 1994, 1995, 1996, which were discussed by the EU Special Commission in 1996 and assessed by fully compatible EU laws, we corrected all this and put it in order. These are: Law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements, Law on city building land, Law on building buildings, Law on maintenance of residential buildings, Law on legalization of illegally built buildings, Law on municipal works, Law on spatial planning, and the Universal Plan of the Republic of Serbia itself, and, as the crown of all, the Law on concessions, which provided space for private capital and foreign capital, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, can be invested in building buildings. That's true, and the whole truth of complete legal projects. All these legal projects have been done at the level of the Republic, they are fully harmonised. I'm sure every single one of them can be found, but they all have a series of sublegal acts that define completely, from making technical documentation, every step of the building. It has even taken a step forward, as defined capital projects are at Serbia's level and are drawn up at the level of the Republic of Rights and Obligations to issue building permits, when thermal power plants, railways, roads and so on. What is the problem - the problem is not at all with wild builders, the problem is with unprofessional and incompetent local self - government. The local self-government has absolutely every authority to put the construction process in order. That is why the Law on the Legalisation of Improperly Built Objects was passed to resolve the ballast, which was then 120 thousand illegally built objects. This is a fake number - 900 grand. I'm signing you because it's impossible for 780,000 buildings to be built from 1996 to 2000, except that the new local self-governments worked so badly that the citizens were forced to build wildly. Why do citizens even build wild cities - because local self-government works badly, because it doesn't bring up the city's general plans. Belgrade has no general plan, Novi Sad is gone, Nis is gone, many Serbian cities. Regulatory plans don't work on time, they don't define. For five years, the DOS party has been in power for six years in almost all major Serbian cities. That's where the biggest problem came from. Regulatory plans should provide sites for building facilities. It's right in the laws - the urban license is issued in one place. That's where the terms are given, that's where the consent is given. It's a month's notice. Anyone who doesn't respect that, they don't respect the authorities of local self-government. It says where a building permit is given, writes a month's notice, is not respected, gentlemen. Therefore, if a criminal measure should be brought in at all, then local self-government is targeted. Apparently, if there was corruption somewhere, then she was fat, because it's possible that the clerks are deliberately making it difficult to issue urban permits, building permits, to seek bribes. With this law, proposed by the DOS government, we literally force a man to bribe him not to go to jail, because people, waiting and having money, are going to build. Therefore, dear gentlemen, it rules out the jurisdiction of this local self-government. The fact that urban permits are not given within a month, that construction permits are not given within a month, which is not given timely conditions and consent to the submitted documentation, they are not the wrong builders, which all the time does not provide for a regulatory plan - it is the fault of those who need to do the job. Therefore, do not punish builders, but find ways to stimulate people, and punish those who do not do their job on time and do not allow planned documentation by timely issuing and urban and construction permits, up to the point of use. The law on the legalization of illegally built objects has done the following -- it has given the local self-government a chance to bring into the same position as those who have legally built and those who have illegally built. Those who illegally build to make happy what, with the money they invest in local self-government and development, they still get one sure condition, and they have a chance to do it for five or ten years. But local self-government since 1995, 1996, in 1997, nothing on that plan has been done. That's the thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11245	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11246	I seek the right to replica, as president of the DOS parliamentary group, since my predecessor mentioned DOS parties, which had been in power for the past six years in local self-government, and during that period of performance, contributed significantly to the urban chaos we faced. Mr. Ivkovic, I'll quote you article 49. The construction land law, which states: "Inspective supervision is carried out by the ministry, through inspectors, within the framework of the law-established work." I will also quote to you the addition of this article, which says that "the supervision of the enforcement of the provisions of this law is carried out by the competent ministry". It is a 1996 supplement, with the provision of "the municipality, or the City of Belgrade, is entrusted with conducting inspection supervision of the construction of buildings for which they issue a building permit under this law", and an additional clarification: "The city of Belgrade is entrusted with a settlement by appeal against the first-degree solution reached for construction. In appeal to the settlement of the municipal administration, i.e. the city administration, which is adopted under this law, the key and crucial word gives the competent ministry of traffic, i.e. construction." The position in which she was local self-government is more than clear. The problems they faced are also well known to citizens, a situation where the parties that make up the DOS today, and in part participated in the work of local self-government in the previous term, is also more than clear. To talk about those who were informal coalition partners of the SPS and the JUL, above all in Belgrade, and then in all those municipalities in which it was in line with their mutual interests, is now politically illogical. They're the past. The parties that made DOS have entered the coalition to change this country. Among other things, to change this country and the area we're talking about today. We are not to blame for what happened in this society. We do not accuse others who participated in the government, because these laws showed a desire to solve this problem, but they were unable to implement these laws. I'll remind you of another inaccuracies in your presentation. You misread the obligation of local self-government. Namely, she is required to issue a building permit within 15 days, not 30. It goes in favour of a careful legislation. So today we're not talking about dysfunctional law here, we're talking about a law that hasn't been applied. This makes the changes so small that we propose, and they are practically changes that determine one more serious sanction for non-compliance with the law. That's what was missing from these laws that we're talking about today, calling for more than a bad position of local self-government in the law enforcement process. Local self-government can't protect the law. She can point to a misdemeanor and we've done it. If you need documentation for that, I suggest twice. Either we lose all day tomorrow in getting to know parliament about these documents or we form a parliamentary commission that will study all the documentation that the ministries have with them, in order to get to know the truth. Without truth, we are a society that has no right to a happy future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11247	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and the next one is a registered MP, Dr Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so that those who follow the transfer of the National Assembly sessions know what is so fiercely attacked by the MPs of the SRS, I will read to you a member who adds to the existing law and who changes the essence of the Law on the Construction of Objects. In Article 52a. It is said that "an entrepreneur who is a contractor or a responsible person in a legal person who is a contractor of works on a building that is built without a building permit will be punished for a crime in prison for up to a year, and a natural person who is an investor or a responsible person in a legal person who is an investor of a building without a building permit will be punished for a prison offence for up to three years. "He who burns or destroys the building of the Federal Assembly or television, will not be punished by prison, will become a national hero. I don't believe this law could have been written by Professor Dragoslav Šumarac, an expert in the field of construction. It seems to me that this law was written by a police officer. Perhaps Zoran Zivkovic or someone close to him, and since his wife is the secretary of the Legislative Secretariat, he may have passed on those powers to her (Glass from Hall: 100%. I ask the lady to calm down and listen. If this law had been written by an expert, i.e. that you wrote, and you did acknowledge an expert, you would have found ways to solve the fact that there are millions of illegally raised objects, how to adapt detailed urban plans, how to adapt all of this to bring down as little damage as possible to people. Believe me, there is not every happiness and privilege as our current Federal Police Minister has, that he is quick to legalise the illegal construction that was built in Nis. Some even say that he was digging bones into the old Baghdad cemetery to spread the edge to his house. (President: Please stick to the topic. ) When we mentioned you, and I was right here when we were doing that Privatisation Act, so when I was talking about that responsible person working at the agency, if he could give some information that could lead someone into a privileged position and on that basis make a few million marks, that the state would be damaged by a few million marks, that a more severe sanction would be needed. No, I don't. You're left with fines. Watch out, for that cash, and when someone starts building an object without permission, it's a prison sentence. It's not something we can accept. I'm particularly surprised by my friend, Mijailović Lune, of the DSS, who says, "Oh, we'll pass this law, but if you work this badly in the future, we'll vote against the government." Is the DSS in government or is he a little in government, or is he a little in government, or isn't he in government? You have to make up your mind. This law will be passed by you from the DSS, and you will answer, no matter what you say, we are little or we are not little in the government. Or maybe you want to be a little more in the government, but someone won't let you be a little more in the government. Mr. Minister, really don't let the law bind itself to you, let's say, that's when Dragoslav Šumarac sent us to prison. Don't, pull this bill. Or it's not too late, let's go together Friday at 6:00 for a big patriotic rally, together to figure out that DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11249	The word has been made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, and the next one has been reported by MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, due to the state's inability to resolve many issues related to building a building on the periphery, citizens are forced to build individual buildings. Conditions are difficult to provide requested documentation. Instead of adopting regulations that would simplify the legalisation of the already existing ones, as you say, 700,000 -- a million illegal objects, it offers fines and threatens prisons from one year to three years. Although we know that in many land books, first of all in New Belgrade, about 90% of the apartments are not registered at all, in Nis the whole of Bulevar Lenin, there is still a cadastar plot, or agricultural land, in Leskovec the entire settlement like Bočica, etc. The new government must take steps to make detailed urban plans with the necessary infrastructure, in order to allow citizens to build a roof over their heads as soon as possible. Except for investment by citizens in residential construction, all other investments in state and social enterprises have been almost negligible in the past. There is a reduction in the size of housing, so the new government must cause reduced investment to remove within the shortest time limit. It is necessary to implement a programme of economic and urban policy and to adequately address the citizens' housing issue in this policy, which wants their scarce financial resources and excessive physical work to provide a roof over their heads. Because of the proposed changes and additions to the Construction Act by alleged experts, which bear part of the responsibility for the wrong communist urban policy so far, citizens' dissatisfaction and great revolution will be shown. The revolution will be expressed because the proposed punishment of citizens who have been hit for decades by the wrong bureaucratic policy and in the area of urbanism, as entrepreneurs have been closed doors to their own functioning with the latest regulations. Citizens who want to upgrade or adapt their facilities are directly affected by new regulations because they will not be able to provide the necessary documentation. This proposal also reduces the financial resources that Serbian citizens would invest on temporary work outside our country to build a house, reduce investments and reduce both production and services, thus reducing the number of employees. If a state, or municipality, does not create conditions for construction, or if they do not adopt regulatory plans, this law is extremely restrictive and unfair. There's a lot of examples like that. I'll only give you one. In a detailed urban plan, which was brought back to the 1970s, there is an example, say, of Toshin's well in Zemun. There is, in these detailed urban plans, anticipating the construction of a traffic station. Unable to realise the traffic facility, the facilities in Zemun are averaged from 70 to 100 years old, as no new brick can be installed according to the city's decision, as citizens cannot get any construction permits. The status quo, and the physical endurance of these buildings has its own century. So, probably, these buildings, if we don't get a plan, they'll be torn down by themselves, because of the teeth of time. I'd like to ask the minister how he can implement this bill of his, say, in Leskovac, where absolutely nothing works. The president of the city government resigned. He's on vacation right now. He probably deserved something like that. The Democratic Party's committees are moving on to other parties. There is one committee member from the Democratic Party of Serbia. So if nothing works, I don't know how you're gonna realize this plan. Just because the local administrations function, which doesn't work for the most responsible, means your DOS authorities, that's why I call for reality, because taxes like this are what they are. I remind you, the Serbian radicals voted against the adoption of the budget, because it was too ambitious. We knew you were the only one who could, so, through your donors and through the penalties that you propose in the law... (President: Mr. Cvetanović, please stick to the topic. I'm sticking to the subject. Only with these penalties, if you've read this bill by the chairman, you've seen that there are a few members everywhere, there are some prison sentences or financial, or fines. So Serbia's citizens will be naked very soon. But, given that the authorities' greatest bearers, Mr Djindjic and Mr Kostunica, are also naked, I hope that the citizens will not experience such a thing (a magazine). That is why I call on all patriots to come to Belgrade on Friday at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11251	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11252	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, what is certain, and I believe that each of you thinks here, every political party, that the law that will regulate these problems and this area should be passed. Therefore, we agree to deal with this problem legally. But by a law that will be both right and just, which will be in function and those to which it applies, or to which it applies. This law, i.e. amendments and additions to this law, is not so. He's both flawed and inapplicable. And very soon it will prove that it will absolutely not be possible to apply it in solving this problem. When it comes to his function, he's only in office of the state. So, you need to fill the register. We need to fill the budget or close the wrongdoer when it comes to wild construction. And for those to whom it applies, anything that is rigorous in this law applies to them. If anyone can talk about wild construction, he doesn't have to be an expert. I think I'm really committed to saying something about it, because I grew up with wild construction and I'm surrounded by wild construction. I spent a part of my childhood in wild construction that was later legalized. All my parents know is how much they paid for it. For these reasons I am to regulate this matter, that is to say, that we are all legalizing our objects. But in a way that will allow us to do this painlessly. What's this about? Someone here said it was a million illegal objects in Serbia. I don't know if that's it. I know it's in Novi Sad, say, over 40,000. I'm not saying that they only built those who had money and who were, as someone said, rude. Already, mostly, in over 90% of the poverty cases, which she wanted to place in about 70-100 square feet of her family. Wildly built doesn't encourage how some lead memory, over the last ten years. It's just like someone said, he's been leading a few decades back. And the result is the social, economic and security situation, which forced citizens to move to the city or the city's periphery and to start wild construction. So most of these citizens built it because it had to and was not in a position to settle financial obligations. A lot of people around here have been saying, when it comes to building permits and all those papers that need to be obtained, that it took a lot of time. That's right. However, no one has considered that today, in order to legalise the facility, one worker cannot monthly single out 200 marks to pay the war for legalising the facility and obtaining a permit. That's the biggest problem. Because he bought the place. He came to see whether, for economic and social reasons, he had worked hard to buy a salary of about tens of thousands of marks, to buy some material, and to build his own resources, or in his own direction. Someone here said this law wasn't retroactive at all. Well, the first member is absolutely retroactive. He says, "The building facility, that is, whose construction is completed without a building permit, cannot be connected to an electrical power and telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage." Is that retroactive? Well, it is. We're not keeping a spell in the sky or on the ground. Shall we return it to the 19th century, that there is no water and electricity in the 21st century. Or, when the object says, or who starts using the object, without using the permission. And I'm going to tell you that 50% of the objects that have all the documentation don't have the right permission. Does he have to be punished now because he doesn't have a license? You say it's not retroactive. Or to continue using the object and after making a solution to ban the use of the object. So he's been using the facility for 10 years. No license. And now it's not retroactive, it's not punishable. We'll either move him out or charge him 450,000 fines. What are the penalties? Draconian. It was from 10 to 100,000. Do you know what they are today? Between 10 and 450,000 dinars or 15,000 marks. At best, if we don't lock him up. Well, who has 450,000 who finished an illegal facility three, four years ago, now to pay or to move out of it. And you say here, don't scare the citizens, it's not retroactive. It's an orderly nonsense. (President: Time, Mr. Bajic. To bring all illegal objects down. Well, he wants riots of inconspicuous proportions, if that's what he's calling for. We have to enable citizens to simply legalize their object, to give it such conditions, such wars that it can automatically execute and legalize its object, and not that we dragonly punish it, shut it down or charge him 15,000 marks if he didn't do it. This problem really needs to be approached from life's side. A law like this can't be passed in the cabinet of a minister who doesn't know the essence of wild construction, or, as I often used to say from the fifth floor. You need to get down on the ground. We need to land on the ground, see what these problems are, and then bring in one cellular, legal solution that everyone will be pleased with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11253	According to the Rules of Procedure, Srboljub Zivanovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11254	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, under Rule 93, have again been injured by the Rules of Procedure. "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum." So until it determines the quorum, the work of the Assembly is interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11255	If I understand you correctly, Mr. Zivanovic, you're looking for a quorum. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their identification cards. I find that we have a quorum and that the Assembly can continue to work. The People's MP, Melank Shandor, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say something about this subject, but from another aspect. So, to look at this problem from a cultural aspect and from the aspect of architectural and urban settlement. Gentlemen, we, by our work and political action, leave one mark in society, a clue that follows generations that come behind us, and architectural and urban traces are those that are built in solid material and last long. Can you imagine a future generation that might ask you a question -- where on a five-story salt core two houses landed, I think they have garages on the Green Wreath? Or, who gave permission to land that Pink facility in the heart of a settlement, according to the urban plan, for something completely different? This Pink facility, which I would like to mention, unlike Mr Kovacevic, I would not praise it for this pay phone, because above all as an architect, I believe that one of the great scales with a pretty hollow content is actually one metaphor of Serbia in the last 12 years, and that the place, as metaphors, is not quite suitable for it. The building itself as a building - steel, glass and that, believe me, is not unknown to me in architecture. But the real material from which this building was built is actually arrogance, false splendor, bribery, disrespect for elementary architectural and urban logic, disrespect for the law. This law should right now be preventive and warning of cases of this type, that it cannot be disobeyed by law, bribe, money, buy what is not to be bought. Therefore, I also warn the MPs in this house that the future generations that come behind us, that we are obliged to leave them architectural heritage in one condition that they deserve to inherit from us and we are responsible for it. Therefore, we, MPs of the Civil League, will vote in favour of the bill on amending this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11257	The word is made by MP Stanko Kovacevic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11258	The right of architects is to give their opinions on some construction facilities depending on their direction in their profession. When I was talking about Pink TV, I wasn't talking about the aspect of an architect, because my waist is something else. But I've had the opportunity to read in the foreign press on three pages truly the Nightingales about the idea of a young architect who invented it. From that point of view, I said that it would be a great shame, and because of the fact that around 20 million marks have been invested in that facility, that in the current conditions, because of the non-compliance of the regulations by either investors or the competent state authorities, which did not intervene in time, that it now requires eviction or destruction of a part of the facility, which would be much greater damage than to establish the very strict conditions of its legalisation and that the facility is being obtained legal papers. I just said I'm not interested in the owner of that facility at all, but I need to give credit to both the investor and the architects for such a beautiful architectural solution, which is well thought by world architects, not just me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11259	The People's MP, Djura Lazic, came forward. He's not in the O.R. ) The next reported is National Envoy Dragoljub Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11260	Dear People's Messengers, Mr. Minister, I will be apostrophe of Professor Radulovic, who said this law was proposed from trouble, from trouble and from trouble. When we talk about why out of trouble, we talk about housing all the time, and we're not talking about other objects. Look at the paradox. There are more than 70,000 housing facilities in Serbia that no one lives in, then more than 700,000 so-called "unlawlessly erected objects", and others called them "wild raised". And etemologically and essentially, these are two completely different words. That's exactly what I want to point out. Why? Because these buildings, which were illegally built, were built by the poor, and that was the poorest, who hobbled into communism in the city, and these wild ones were those who violated the Black Summit, disrupted Kopalnik, Zlatibor, the most exclusive parts of Belgrade, Nisa, which mark force, power, and that in some ways devastated this country. I mean, they should be called wild and sanctioned as proposed in this law. As for these facts that I was talking about earlier, they say that lawless construction is actually a social problem, that in fact, an economic problem would have been said, and that a part of the government has so far allowed it to solve social peace. While these others show their passion and their power in some way. So what we need to talk about, which is Mr. Minister, is that you as an architect and as an expert define, I would ask you what about those objects that are legally built, which are architecturally, as the young fellow said, resolved, and then by the powerful man upgraded to no longer look like what they were. One other thing, we need to talk about what you're going to do with the buildings that were built, which are factory, different cargo yards, on the most fertile land. How are you going to sanction them? So, I wouldn't be long, I'd like to finish. I'm going to vote for this law out of trouble, but I'm asking that if you don't solve this whole issue with a set of laws soon, you're going to have to ask for my trust and my voters again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11261	People's MP Dragan Milentijevic came to the floor, and the next one was announced by the MP Sredoje Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11262	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another law that the opposition criticises, although it is normal that you never have the ideal law, but this is a law that complements and I hope that the competent ministry will surely make even more quality solutions in the coming period, so that this law is really real. But what's most important and what many are trying to disprove here is that the law is not retroactive, which means that all those who have been illegally built in the past, for all these people, will be subject to the law so far. So, there's no story about the story that for those people who have built in the past period, the provisions of the law will apply -- a prison sentence of up to three years or a fine of about 450,000. I think it was a wish, and we found that on the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, the proposal was to clearly underline the line and say that from this moment on, when this law was passed, wild or illegal construction was reduced to the least possible measure. He's the same as the previous law, but most of all he changes in these criminal provisions. I think that everything is clearly in some of the explanations the government has given, or the Ministry has given amendments to the opposition MPs. It stands here clearly and says - fines are in line with the Law on Infractions, with the court in charge of measuring the penalty for the offence committed within the prescribed limits, in any case, to determine the penalty for the offence committed, taking into account all the circumstances affecting the punishment being greater or smaller. It is clear that in this legislative role the play and the judiciary, it is undeniable, therefore not only the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, but it is clear that the provisions, where they say -- up to three years in prison, do not mean that anyone who commits a crime of construction, will be punished by three years in prison. The competent court will determine whether the person who broke the law gets three months in prison or three years in prison, because it is not the same if someone wants to leave the builder at his house or wants to raise the factory illegally. I think this law is feared by those people who simply want to build without right, and those who don't think they're breaking the law, they don't care if the prison sentence is up to three years or 10 years old. That absolutely doesn't matter. I don't think only authorities in local self-government who are in charge of issuing permits should be criticised in these situations. We need to know... (President: colleague, please allow the speaker to speak. )......................................................................................................... that there are specific facilities that require consent and other ministries. So it often happens, if you build a factory related to the food industry or to a chemical industry factory, and so on, that you need a number of other consents from certain ministries. Very often these ministries work slower, and it happens that a man does not get permission in the time he wants, but that all of this is extended to some longer deadlines. To clarify: a permit is obtained within 15 days of the moment when a man who wants to builds gets all previous consents. There were also words on the Committee that all we saw here were those people who were illegally building and punishing them, and that all those who issued building permits were not sanctioned. However, the Penal Code in Articles 242 and 245 sanctions those people, as these members of the law refer to abuse of position. So those who issue a permit in an inadequate manner go under these members of the Criminal Code. And in the end, I wanted to say that local self-government is responsible and tasked with working with the Department of Justice to do some good programs for all those people who want to legalize their facilities. So there are a number of ways and I've read examples of local self-government that this problem wanted to solve. For example, by giving some reprogrammes to all those who have illegally built, so all those who have to pay their permits can do so in more war or I don't know how else. So it takes these people to meet in any case, in order to solve this problem as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11263	The Messenger of the people, Sredo (Mihail), came to the word, and after him was the messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11264	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, we of Vojvodina know that 250 years ago, when cities gained the status of the city, then to prove that they were living civil, they had to provide the magistrate with evidence that they could live civil. So, the cities were still edited back then, there was a certain amount of prescribed border between the neighbours, if you could open a window to the neighbor, what it should look like, how big the salary should be. To live in the city, so you can't live in a smaller space than it was prescribed, and believe me, our villages were arranged to be arranged, entrenched, the exact size of the house, the size of the garden, and the house couldn't be made on a smaller salary than anticipated. So you could live civilizedly, live rurally, but live properly. Now, gentlemen, when you turned us into non-citizens, when we became salsars, that means when we didn't need city communals, when we couldn't pay for it, then the illegal construction started, as you say. So, you guys can do whatever you want in the wild and you can do it, nobody's gonna defend you, and you don't have to pay any taxes, communals or anything, how you're gonna do it. In town, you have an obligation to behave urbanly, to respect some city regulations, some city standards. Of course, in addition to that respect, you have to set aside some money, someone who will build a road for you, introduce electricity, telephone, gas, school, theater, and what's going on next to the city communals. So it's a city obligation and whoever wants to live the city has to separate some of the profits and behave and live the city. The second thing is that we've come to the fact that we all live in Salash. Gentlemen, for illegal construction, you know it has to be legalized. Of course it will be done not overnight, not suddenly, not by punishment, but by arrangement and the way things have been done. For wild construction, I think it's those buildings, the buildings, those factories that were built wild, so where you showed your haughtiness, where you didn't respect urban plans, urbanists, where you didn't respect the experts, but simply the man came to my village and built a house in the middle of the street, in the middle of the Shore, where cows pass, where a village herd of 250 cattle passes. Now he has a problem with cows passing by his house. Normally, when he built a house in the wild, he didn't ask the unfortunate, and someone might have fooled him, I believe those who knew and even advised him to do it in spite. The other one, you watched on TV, made a house on the canal. You remember last spring when Banat was swimming and then a man was miraculously surprised, he built it on no one's land. That's what you allowed. So he must bring a copy, whether he owns the land, and the Roman right makes the house on his own salary only, not on someone else's land. Only when you were the owner could you stab the shaft. So, he built a house on the canal, and he wonders what he did to those people where they're all swimming now. How do you plan to solve this problem now? It means that wild construction is respected, so other channels are made and a different plan is arranged. Gentlemen, that's what you left us, and I'm telling you that no one will pay this fine and no one will go to jail. You know why it won't work? Because they will know that there are sanctions now, in the future that they cannot be built without law or wildly built and no one will go to jail for it, but they will buy a place nicely, take urban - technical conditions and see if there is enough water on that salary and how much they can build a house, what size, whether there is electricity, whether there is enough water. For example, the president of one party boasts that he has a 700-square house and says he has a pool by the house, but did not ask if there is water there and now he fills his pool, and these others have no water. So, the man decided to take a bath, and those poor people you're talking about don't even have to drink.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11265	Mr. Michael, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11266	So, gentlemen, you have passed the laws, but you have not complied with these laws, or as Tito said, you have followed the law as a drunk vessel. You didn't impose any sanctions and the people realized they could do it their way. There's been lawlessness, and we won't let that happen. We want to put all this in order, and therefore, gentlemen, we of Vojvodina, Vojvodina, welcome this law, and we think that these are not sanctions, but only the way and the rule of how we should behave, and whoever wants to be arrogant, who wants to be savage, to build wild, he will have some sanctions. Now the second time has come, the changes have come, the laws have to be respected, they have to be respected, they have to live urbanly, and we expect that from this authority, and that is why we welcome and we will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11267	The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic, and the following is a registered MP, Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in part, what my predecessor said, in Vojvodina, compared to certain parts of Serbian countries, is an architectural order, but a man forgot to say thanks to who introduced the order. Thanks to Serbian architects, Serbian financiers, Serbs performers of these works, and for the status of a townary or citizen, they singled out additional money both to Mary Teresa and the Austro-Hungarian dynasty to get this right to live in the city. What you said, my dear fellow Dukes, is that a new nation? Is that a new entity? Even the Dukean architects of Serbian origin made the rules and built Vienna. One of the most famous architects is Petrovic, who has solved the traffic problem in Vienna, which you are happy to call on. You see how illiterate they were, the ignorant of the Serbs of architects, the Serbs of smart and smart people. These are familiar rings or rings in a traffic jam in Vienna with which the beiges are proud, but for you and those who did not know, this is what Petrovic, a Serb, as the Novi Sad projected by a Serb, as the Subotica projected and the foundations of Sudotica were designed by the Serb and everywhere the Serbs dominated. That's what I'm saying, not for reasons I'd point out nationality, but for the sake of the truth, not to manipulate those terms and terminologys, so you don't condemn us to the salsars. What's more important here, it's the bill of law, which, in its explanation, gives an explanation that this proposal is to contain and prevent illegal construction. It's supposed to work preventively. Mr. Minister, there are a number of legal projects and acts that have been brought in the previous period, which have a preventive fact. What is the fact that the problem of illegal construction is getting bigger and bigger and the problem is facing urban environments, cities. When you look at where there's a higher representation of wild construction, it's the periphery of the urban environment, and that's, as someone said, a sociological problem. It's not a problem that's going to be solved by the proposal of this or any other law, but it's going to have to be seen quite deeply. The problem that's in these environments, which is how it's been getting on the scales lately, it's a violation of the city's core, and it's got to work there. This is why this problem can be prevented - because there are some preconditions, legal acts and at the level of not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also at the level of almost all local self-government, as far as I know, in Serbia, which is a detailed, or general urban plan. Each municipality or almost every city has plans to solve the problem of the city center or city centre, and there is concrete documentation that can be done to prevent wild construction in the city center and in the municipality. As for the dilemma that exists and in the bill of this law, that's what you, Mr. Minister, consider the very concept of wild construction. Is it wild construction if, after the adoption of this law, a Serbian citizen makes it on the periphery of Belgrade, where it has not been adopted and regulated by a detailed urban plan, on land that has not been brought in purpose, builds a house, an object or anything else, does it fall under wild construction or illegal construction? On what grounds will you legally, or how do you want to do so, rigorously punish when you don't have a single act to regulate it? Secondly, isn't it the goal of not being so rigorously punished, but to fit the existing state of affairs into detailed urban plans? Why -- well, the state's income is that way, and not in the way of rigorous punishments. This to me, gentlemen, looks like everything, or most of the laws, that you have proposed here, not to throw dust, but to paint this people. Do not transfer your personal preferences to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11269	The People's MP Dusan Cvetkovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11270	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed ministers, fellow MPs, the bill of amendments and the addition of the Law on the Construction of Objects is another repressive law, which wishes to continue to fill the Republic's budget and the municipalities' budgets, but now with another newspaper, to fill and close. Nothing important has changed, practically, in this new bill, which has been in force for six years, since 1995, and has been very detailed in it. It regulates and covers construction and technical documentation, which is necessary for construction and authorisation regimes, has been defined and contractors have been defined, construction supervision has been defined, even as construction is made available to a particular contractor, to ensure the use of the permit and so on. And what is changed in this law - so Article 43 is changed, and Article 43a, which defines the situation that buildings that are being built, or whose construction is completed without a building permit, will not be able to join the water, electricity, sewerage and telephone, since 19 or 21 July, as we agree here and when this law is passed. Knowing that in Leskovac there are about three thousand illegally built objects, some of them are currently in construction on several locations of dozens of objects, some of which are basically, some with the first plate, some with the other one, waiting for the roof to be set up, but they will certainly not be completed until July 19th or 20th. This bill has no transitional provisions and I don't think it can be good, because it doesn't regulate this problem, that people who are at this point in construction can be kind of seen. I ask the question to Mr. Minister - are there inspection services that will be able to mark construction facilities at the moment, and in southern Serbia, since they are mainly building small buildings, it is poverty, these facilities have been in construction for years, will they be able to know who this law applies to and who not? Who will fall under the fact that it cannot be connected with electricity, water and everything else, and there are many such objects? Or whatever's still in the building will have to practically stop, absolutely stop, and, you know, the unfinished object and the one that hasn't solved the outer facade, whose facade isn't painted. With this legal solution, we will also bring people in the suburban area, which includes villages and villages, not to stick a stake around the garden, because you know that building a fence requires permission. When general urban plans and detailed urban plans for that part will be prepared, for the suburban part of the area, certainly cannot be said. These criminal provisions make people go to prison for up to three years, if they are investors, up to one year, if they are performers, and I have to remind Mr. Minister that they are on our ground, where the Blacks, where are the people of Vlasotinc, who are mostly builders, and who are at the same time, in 40% of cases, and performers, and investors, how will they be punished? Will they be punished on one basis and on another, and as investors, and as performers, or will they be dealt with in some other way? Is this law, since in Leskovec and the surrounding area of the grotesque houses, will the prison sentence also be punished by those who participate in the mobile - are neighbours, relatives, friends, who practically help build this facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11271	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11272	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for most of the laws that DOS is proposing, and for this one, there is an impression that out of ignorance, out of haste, and about the promised changes, all the legal regulations that DOS authorities are proposing are improvising. In order for a law to be successfully applied, there must be certain conditions for its application. Mr Djelic made tax reform without creating conditions for the normal functioning of taxpayers before that. Now this law puts itself in an unfavourable position both investors and contractors. I couldn't agree more on seducing order when it comes to this, but it's not done by this law. This law does not solve the cause, but only eliminates the consequences. It should be brought in when other laws and other conditions are created. One of the conditions for obtaining a building permit is that the land, on which construction is to be built, is urbanized. Today, in over 90% of major urban environments, urban solution does not exist on the peripheries alone, but in the city centers themselves. It's impossible for any legal construction on such grounds to be carried out. Another condition in order to obtain a building permit is that the ownership list for the plot to be built on must be owned. Today, according to applicable legal rules, it takes several years. How big a problem this is, it may serve us an example that entire housing buildings, which were built in the 1970s and 1980s, and today without a building permit, because the investor, or investors, were unable to obtain the property paper and transfer the building land to themselves. You have an example that entire cities are without ownership. No one knows who owns that land at all. For example, settlements and cities that were displaced during the construction of Gerdap and Gerdap Lake, no single facility owns a property list. This is not only a problem for a building permit, but also a problem for extracting personal documents, such as ID card and residence certificate. Even objects of vital importance for the functioning of the country in general, for this reason do not have a building permit. For example, the Kostolac Termo power plant doesn't own a building permit, which is located in the center of town and still works, so I don't know, Mr. Minister, are you going to take it down? And that, according to Mr Jovanovic, that Belgrade does not have enough water because of wild construction, is a little strange. Citizens cannot get a building permit, and orderly pay compensation for the use of construction land in certain municipalities where DOS is in power, because the communal fees paid to the surrounding authorities are greater than the taxes prescribed by this authority. So, I guess it's not just for citizens to pay taxes and taxes, but for local authorities and the state to take care of building infrastructure, which will meet the needs of citizens. So these assets that are derived from such incomes should be directed at the construction of plumbing, sewerage, local travel networks and so on, and so on, very little work today. So a law like this should be put in the process when these two problems are solved. When you simplify the way and transfer the building land, when the urban plans are completed, only then can you propose such a criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11273	The word is from a colleague, Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11274	Some MPs from individual DOS political parties have been given special responsibilities to record where their colleagues are, as many as are in the O.R. As well as chasing them down the halls. I express my doubts about the existence of a quorum and, based on Article 93. Rules of Procedure, please determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-11-0.u11275	Of course, colleague, that your intervention is justified, that's not disputed. I must say that if the MPs of the SRS put in the cards, they can secure the quorum. Please do. (Employer Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: I will not go into the controversy with you, I asked to establish the quorum. I didn't say they were in the O.R. All right, colleague Jovanovic, you have the right to ask for what you're looking for. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that, according to the results of the electronic quorum-determining system, we have no quorum. So I find that one group of MPs violates the Rules of Procedure by not fulfilling their parliamentary obligation to identify themselves by inserting a card. I'm taking a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] We have, Mrs. Jovanovic, quite an obvious quorum, only one MP SRSidentified himself. You can see it on the monitor. It's absolutely certain that we have a quorum, because it's in the common interest of ending it, because tonight we can end the search in principle, we have four other registered debaters. So I warn all those who do not do so, to knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure. Please don't get us into absurd situations, it's obvious that we have a quorum in the O.R., we can finish the law search in principle tonight, I don't see any reason, anyone, that we don't. Once again, I ask everyone present to identify themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I am forced to conclude that, because of the violation of the Rules of Procedure by a group of MPs, we do not have a quorum. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 in the morning.
