ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15597	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 189 people's celebrations. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Petar Misic, Ratimir Svirčević, Milan Ernjaković, Išpanovic Istvan, Zivica Predojev, Sredoje Mihajlov, Višnja Nežić, Branislav Pomorijski. Later, Nenad Lemajic announced. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. The Board of Justice and Administration, within the meaning of Article 159(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he proposed to put on the agenda of this session, following an urgent procedure, a motion for a decision to dismiss the judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, who submitted to the National Assembly on 12 December 2001, and to consider the proposal as part of the 13th item of the adopted agenda. I am putting on the vote of the Committee on Justice and Administration's proposal to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda of this session a motion for a decision on the discharge from the judge's office of the Supreme Court of Serbia and to consider this proposal as part of the 13th item of the adopted agenda. For 129 against 27, the abstentions were not voted 26, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that has adopted the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration. The Board of Justice and Administration, within the meaning of Article 159(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision on the discharge of the district attorney in Novi Sad, who submitted to the National Assembly on 12 December 2001, and that the proposal be discussed within the framework of the 13th point of the adopted agenda. I'm putting this motion on the Justice and Administration Committee. For 129, against 27, two abstentions, 29 did not vote, a total of 187 MPs. I also find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal from the Justice and Administration Committee. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA FOR THE COMMUNITY OF THE PURPOSE OF PRODUCTION AND TRANSPORT OF DUVANES AND DUVANICAL PRODUCTS (addition) Here you go, Mr. Zarko Obradović, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15598	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Socialists are in favour of forming a survey board that will determine all facts of importance for the production and transport of tobacco products in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There are several reasons why the Socialists are for setting up a polling committee, but I will say only two: The first reason - the formation and work of the survey committee will help us finally disappear and the last part of the great untruth that the former opposition has placed, and the current government, before 5 October, that the earlier government was behind the smuggling of cigarettes in the Republic of Serbia. To us socialists is the most important truth about this matter. We need facts and knowledge, not speculation, untruths and political plantings. There was a cigarette smuggling and now there is a cigarette. That's not controversial. This was seen by Serbian citizens, as they now see cigarette smuggling exists and Serbia is flooded with smuggled cigarettes. The question is who's in charge and who's behind the smuggling of cigarettes - an individual, more people, organisations or states. The Socialists certainly have nothing to do with it. If they had or had, the Serbian public would know for sure, because it would have been published on big bells, not only on state television, but on all other non-independent media. Nearly 11 months have passed since the DOS government exists in Serbia. In the past 11 months, the government has been celebrated by counter-constitutional action, parliament's failure to submit, government regulations instead of laws, undermining the judicial authority to the executive, etc. I wouldn't mention the drop in living standards, the decline in production, the increase in unemployment and all the negative consequences they're feeling. But certainly, the only area in which the government has achieved good results is in the persecution of socialists, physically and legally, and of course in the mounted political processes. Why am I saying this? If the current government could accuse the Socialists of inciting a criminal offence, because of a known charge of abuse of official position, if she claimed that the Socialists were behind cigarette smuggling, and that at least part of it is true, it would be logical for someone to be charged with cigarette smuggling, when it is known to be one of the crimes that brings the greatest asset benefit to those who do so. Since there are no criminal charges, and it has been 11 months, it is crystal clear that the Socialists have neither had nor had anything to do with the smuggling of cigarettes. Another reason why we are in favour of forming a survey board - we want, as well as the citizens of Serbia, to know who is behind the smuggling of cigarettes in Serbia. Smuggling exists. Black tobacco market, too. You can tell with your naked eye. That is confirmed by some of the DOS leaders in public statements. That also confirms part of the press. A billion packs of cigarettes illegally entering Serbia are mentioned, hundreds of even billions of marks a month that are illegally crushed by those who organise cigarette smuggling. What it means for Serbia and its citizens is not to speak. If some DOS leaders claim that smuggling exists, if the government of DOS exists and works in Serbia, and no one knows who is behind cigarette smuggling, then there are two issues and possible answers. First, that DOS in general or individually stands behind the smuggling of cigarettes. In general or individually. If that weren't the case, I guess in these 11 months, the current government would have found at least some proof that someone else was behind it and offered it to the public. On this point, DOS has no transparency, no entrepreneurship. There's no talk at all about the damage the state suffers from the black tobacco market. There is no telling what it means for our tobacco industry, no telling what it means for the state of Serbia and for the citizens. Secondly, to be behind the smuggling of cigarettes is some public unknown organization or people, but probably close authorities, because nothing is being done against them. In both cases, it would be logical for the government to resign. If the government refuses to resign, and finds that cigarette smuggling exists, then it should certainly be done by the police minister because of total incompetence and unhappiness, because no evidence has been offered by the security authorities, nor has anyone been found. No concrete result has been achieved in the repression of cigarette smuggling or in the capture of smuggling organizers. I must say, the Serbian government has done nothing to suppress cigarette smuggling. Millions and billions of marks stand there at the reach of the hands, and the state does nothing to put these funds into office and use for the benefit of the citizens. At the same time, high scores are declaring modest loans of ten, fifteen, twenty, thirty million marks or dollars, which, walking around the world, receive from various donors. The Committee of Auditors must answer these questions. In addition, the committee must resolve the concerns that have arisen in public regarding the smuggling of cigarettes. In addition to these questions, I think the committee of inquiry should answer two more questions. What is the character of Mr. Zoran Djindjic's relationship with a certain Canet Subotic, who is mentioned by the local and local press as one of the most important people in cigarette smuggling across the Balkans? Are the exact claims that cigarettes are smuggled in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. with papers obtained from Kosovo and Metohija, and sold on the tobacco market? Is that true? What is the amount of cigarettes and what is the amount of money? However you turn around, on either side of the question you're looking at this question, on either side investigating this issue, it's undeniable that cigarette smuggling exists, that the black tobacco market exists, and that DOS is responsible for it. Dear colleagues, this proposal exists and it is certain that it cannot be changed. However, I think one mistake has been made in the approach to forming an assembly of the survey board. I think someone from the opposition should have come to the head of this committee, not someone from the ruling coalition. At the head of this committee was supposed to come someone from the real opposition and we thought we were running for our member, Dragan Tomic, who would be proposed to be board member and board president. The experience of parliaments in our neighborhood shows that it is quite logical for someone from the opposition to be at the head of the board, because there is a far greater interest in determining the situation. I think the ruling majority would be honored to have someone from the opposition head the board, because then they could tell themselves and others -- here, the results are like that, and that's what we have or have nothing to do with it or something like that. (Milka Marinkovic, from the post: Marko Milosevic. ) In the end, the Socialists are for the formation of a survey board to look at the situation in the area of production, tobacco and tobacco products, because we want the full truth about cigarette smuggling in Serbia and, of course, the responsibility of those who organise and conduct the smuggling.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15599	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: DOS, DSS, SPS and SRS. The total number of Members of the People's People's People's People's Parliaments reported to take part in the debate is 32. The first registered MP is Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15600	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Chairman, counterpart Zarko Obradovic expressed the essence of the SPS MPs' views, and in these positions he absolutely pointed to our willingness to support the decision to vote on the polling committee and to participate in the work. He made a proposal for our candidate to be a member. We estimate this by experience in the work of the former Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when, for example, in the case of the Ibar highway, the president of the polling committee was from the SPO parliamentary group. It's our suggestion, but we understand that some things, as suggested, cannot be changed. But I would talk about something else. I'd like to talk about the promoter, the DSS MPs. They rightly expect us from the opposition SPS group to support the idea and participate in the survey committee's work on possible tobacco smuggling developments, and their expectation is true. They know that we will support it, but they should know that we are essentially aware and that we know very well that these same DSS MPs did not support the SPS proposal to form a polling committee that will investigate all events related to 30 March, 31 March and 1 April, when President Slobodan Milosevic, president of the SPS, was arrested. They did not support what they had publicly condemned, to investigate what happened on June 28th 2001 on Vidovdan, how he was illegally taken from the prison of Slobodan Milosevic and extradited to The Hague. You know, that it is only known that we will support the committee of inquiry because we believe that each parliamentary group should if there is documentation related to certain events (which do not investigate enough legal authorities or legal authorities do not work properly) bring it out. We will support this because we believe that such committees should be supported. But, to be clear, we have seen a difference in the behaviour of the DSS MPs, due to internal accounts in the DOS coalition, because they were dissatisfied with the treatment of the second part of the DOS, because most of the DOS decided to replace their president and appoint someone else as president; and we as MPs did not participate. We want us not to be dragged into each other's DOS conflicts now, but we stick to principle and we will vote for the formation of a polling committee just because we believe that every parliamentary group that has a significant number of MPs has the right to point out possible failures in the functioning of the state, state bodies, whether they are in Serbia's judicial system, whether they are within the Serbian government itself. We are aware of the fact that this is intruding, that this is an attempt to calculate within a single-use coalition, which has completed its job for which it is formed and in which they are now beginning to dominate diversity. Serbian citizens know that there are monarchs and Republicans, globalists and nationalists, and autonomists and whatever you want. Serbian citizens see this as your internal conflict. It is not good that we spend here, but on the seventh day, the money of the Serbian tax collectors because of your internal conflicts. The SPS MPs are calling on the DSS promoter to state here for a payphone that because of the fair play, they will support the polling committee that will investigate all the conditions in which he was arrested, brought out of prison, kidnapped and delivered to Slobodan Milosevic, that they will support the new SPS proposal to examine the responsibility of Petrovic-Škero and Gorana Cavline, who have allowed their prisoner, whom they alone rule, to disappear from the space where they have placed him. This would be a fair relationship between DSS MPs, and then we would know that they really want their proposal to explore things, not to be accounted for under the DOS coalition, and that our proposal for such a polling committee in the new material for the new session of the Serbian Parliament will also support them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15601	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15602	Mrs. Micic, the respected presidency, Mr. Ivkovic, every control is welcome. The problem is that from the position of the government there are much more logical control mechanisms than the control proposed by the formation of a survey board. You know very well that the polling committee is much more politically instrumentalised than a committee capable of having a serious problem, the problem of organised crime, especially tobacco smuggling, solves. As far as our readiness is concerned, we will gladly agree to that control that is effective and, as a government that is responsible, we will bear the consequences of our work, in the same way that it is characteristic of all other democratic societies. As for this troubled memory of the effects of the government, i.e. the authorities of the previous regime, I remind you that your federal MP and director of the tobacco industry Nis is at this point the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted and who has been removed immunity from the federal parliament, because the prosecution authorities consider that there is a basis for the initiation of a criminal investigation and for determining possible liability in respect of non-compliance with the laws governing the area of production and traffic of tobacco in our society. I think there are clear facts and indicators that talk about the positive effects of the government's policy. Of course, no one in parliament, nor in the DOS parliamentary group, nor in the government itself at the moment can determine that the case with organised crime has been completed. But we first opened the subject seriously, and we discuss it responsibly. I don't think the board of inquiry is a good way to do something like that, but let the congregation majority decide on it. I've pointed out what the obstacles are to us supporting the formation of a survey board. Also, there's no room for any dilemma. The survey board cannot determine the truthfulness of the facts published in the articles, especially in the foreign press, is also problematic in the domestic one, because we do not see how the survey committee could do so. The Committee of Auditors cannot have a predetermined task which actually inaugurates the guilt of the republican authorities, nor can the committee of inquiry be drawn up in the way proposed in this initiative. As far as taxpayers' money is concerned, it is true that this congregation is spending it. It would take her to work more efficiently, but we don't behave the way you do often. In the last few days you've been more absent than present at these sessions. I'd ask you not to give us moral lessons on costs, because we're sensitive to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15603	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15604	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, one of the DOS' pre-election promises was that DOS's victory in the elections, and later DOS's authority, would stand in the way of organised crime. The illegal tobacco trade can certainly be classified as one of the forms of organised crime. Today, you can buy a pack of cigarettes without an excise stamp at every major crossroads, market, on almost every bar. As far as traffickers are concerned, I can understand them, I can't justify them, because in this way they are fighting illegal trade and grey economy; and the state that needs to protect them, how it protects them, and how it - occasionally raids them, gets into their stores and trades, and in the investigation process, if they find these cigarettes, there is a tiny drug dealer who drives them away. It's never going forward and it always ends and it seems to me, by someone's orders. Those real tobacco bosses remain inaccessible to the police and first court. A cigarette without an excise stamp is currently in large quantities in Serbia, even an aortic offer is better than in some world free shops, which in fact proves that it is an organised smuggling and the untouchability of tobacco bosses in front of the police and the judiciary proves that they are very close to the executive authorities. The closeness of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zoran Djindjic, with the largest tobacco boss in Europe, Canet Subotic, cannot be denied. Also, it cannot be denied that since the government of Serbia's regulation was adopted on 6 April, the number of cigarettes without excise stamps has increased rapidly. I've said it more than once -- the mob seems to me, with the October 5th changes, just changed its bosses.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15605	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. (Branislav Ivkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15606	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 91, paragraph 2. Article 91, paragraph 2, says: "If MPs from several parliamentary groups are reported for the debate, the President of the National Assembly gives them the word alternately, so that first the MP who is a member of the least-numbered parliamentary group speaks to the greatest... "The speaker of the assembly called on the first SPS representative and then on the SRS representative. Of course, this is not the first time, and I do not understand at all why, for example, it is given to the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Jovanovic, that he talks after me when he is not mentioned at all, nor is he spoken of at all, and several times, just when there was a basis for replication, it has been estimated that no position of someone from the SPS has been affected. Madam President, I think you should think about it because it is increasingly evident in your behavior. As for DOS relations, for Serbian citizens, it would have been much better if it hadn't been for these seven days, because the money was spent on your mutual accounts for free. To that end, there was also a replacement, and so was this committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15607	Mr. Ivkovic, there is also a provision in the Rules of Procedure to make sure that the candidates are registered for or against the proposal, and according to this, a proper order of application is made. (Branislav Ivkovic: So, radicals have the opposite attitude of the SPS. They're against it, they've pleaded against it. In the application for the word SRS has been declared to be going against the proposal. That's how it was filed, and that's how she did the service, and I had nothing to do with it. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if somewhere or in some service a technical mistake can happen to anyone, but yesterday I spoke 10 minutes from this pay phone, went out to replicas, and it was quite clear that we are not as some party, we are an hour, we are not, and it is not known how we are and when we are for something, and when and how we are not -- we know that we are for the formation of a polling committee, that we are against the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we know what the political position of the SRS is, and there was never any doubt about any Serbian radicals. So I would pray that you don't speak, that there will be no abuse of your exposure or your words in public, that someone doesn't think that we are against forming a committee of inquiry. I merely made our remarks and our wishes, which would be better and what the promoter had to do to make the proposal look incomparably better in a different form, which is, therefore, my regret and observation. I even said who would be the representative of the SRS on the polling committee, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, when there were yesterday's swearings on the left. So that was the point, and it seems to me that in a very clear way, we have made it clear to the general public that we are in favour of forming a survey board, to see what the government's involvement, as the home press writes about, is not just a party. I brought a voice of the public that speaks of some Stank Subotic-Cannet, about $45 million, some of his "honest site" (quote), I don't know about those planes, maybe I'll make a mistake on behalf of...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15609	Mr. Wolfie, will you let me answer...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15610	I'll let you know as soon as I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15611	You can't talk about it right now. We need to solve the procedural thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15612	Here, I'm finishing, yesterday you gave me a second warning, you gave me another warning, even though you had no reason, just because I paid for it, paid for it, and I didn't say a word, I didn't do anything, so you took another 5,000 dinars, and I didn't have it on me. Please, just three more minutes, let me finish. This is about some strange roads of tobacco, some factories that were to be built in Kragujevac, Novi Sad, about strange influences, and I'm going to talk about it a little later when I report on behalf of the parliamentary group, so let's see, and that's why it would be natural to form this survey board, to determine whether the state is losing huge money, where it loses them, and how we can make up for it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15613	Mr. Vukic, I'd just like to remind you, since you've probably forgotten and overlooked, you've sent an act to the National Assembly on October 22nd that says - based on Article 89. Rules of Procedure, I submit an application from the SRS parliamentary group for participation in the debate under the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to see the situation in the area of tobacco and tobacco products production and transport. The MPs will speak in principle for one minute, according to the next order of MPs and will be against the proposal. Signed by Parliament Group President, Dr Vojislav Seselj. And we made that order according to that act. Do you agree to keep it like this, so we don't change the order now, and you can talk about it. I don't have anything, I'm just explaining to you why, there's no need... If you're not satisfied, we can put it to a vote, so don't talk about it, if you want the Service to redo the order again, pull this... (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: We will all speak in order, but we are in favour of forming a survey board. ) It is your right, only in your application you wrote that you would be against and according to that application was made such a order. Do you agree to continue as it is made up of order, and you can also speak for, I don't mind. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: That's fine.) ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Markovic, followed by MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15614	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first ask Mr Banet Ivkovic, I just don't know if he can hear me, I'd like him to hear me... He said earlier - the SS was supposed to speak first (not after this speaker, but when he was going out) because, allegedly, we had the smallest number of votes when we entered this parliament. We had the smallest number of votes then, Mr. Ivkovic, and today, according to the survey, we are the third party in Serbia by popularity and I ask you not to say that anymore. Maybe you didn't do it on purpose, but it came out to you, and I forgive you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to debate, I would like to ask the Proposer - are you staying and will this proposal remain until the end of the session or will it be withdrawn? Dear Martian, we're staying. ) I thank you, since you never know whether or not you will vote in favour. The SJJ followed Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's speech carefully yesterday, and we also followed Mr. Mihajlov's speech. I personally believe, my brother, as well as the MPs and our president, Borislav Pelevic, that there is something there; but you have not brought some details and some facts to light, and I think maybe you should have said it. Furthermore, it may not be nice, some terminology is spoken for by a pay phone -- as some mobsters exist in this Serbia, they are in the government, in Kosovo, etc. Then Cedomir Jovanovic comes out and says - no, they're in the DSS. I don't think that's good, and we don't need to say any ugly words and attack each other. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the time has not come to argue, but to do something good for this Serbia. You know what, I was surprised when Mr. Michael mentioned a large figure in tobacco consumption that a citizen in Serbia smokes 25 packs. Then I wonder why in article 71 of the Labour Act, Mr Milovanovic suggested that mothers have only three months of maternity leave. Well, when the mothers go to work, then they say -- the kids don't know what she was sucking, so they smoke and the kids, everybody smokes, and then that amount of cigarettes that's shown in the reports would be justified. Also, ladies and gentlemen, I think the same responsibility has both the DSS and the DOS, if there is an affair and a crime involved in cigarette smuggling. If the signator of the regulation is Mr. Pradic, Deputy Prime Minister, is now in resignation (we do not know if he is still in office in the resignation), then he has the same responsibility as the one he has proposed; perhaps even the promoter, the initiator has less responsibility than the signator. We know very well that the regulation cannot bring down the survey board, that the regulation and government can replace this assembly. I now suggest to you, and I have suggested this to you, Mr. Martian, and when I was at your meeting, when Mrs. Comic said she would look for yours tomorrow, I said at the same time - give you the signatures of 20 MPs, since the SS has no 20, there are 16 (Articles 199 and 200). Rules of Procedure) that we can ask the question of trust with the Serbian government. You didn't do it, and then you called us saying we were supposed to leave the O.R., that we weren't a disciplined party, etc. You know very well that you personally praised us at all television stations that we are the most cultural party from the opposition. That's your word. Why? Because when we're in the O.R., we put our cards in the MPs' units. When we're not in the O.R., the MP cards are in the pocket of our MPs. That's how we'll always behave. The SS will never have any foreign chiefs, or we make any decisions at our MP club and as our party president proposes. Borislav Pelevic. We from the Serbian Unity Party were expecting a few more of your proposals for an anecdote committee. We expected you to propose a polling committee to determine why President Vojislav Kostunica released Adem Kurti from Serbia's prison without letting any Serb out of Albanian prisons. What about 1,300 missing Serbs? We also expected that you would propose a survey committee to establish why farmers were deceived for the price of sunflowers, if the government gave the price of 15 dinars, and later the price of 11 dinars was paid. We also expected you to propose a committee to examine why the assistance of Serbs from Cosmeta for persons aged 18 to 65 has been abolished. We expected many more boards, but you didn't do it for unknown reasons. Also, Mr. Martian, you know very well that we appreciate and respect you, but you haven't used your power. It's not too late today either. So it's not too late today, either, the Soviet Union is not satisfied with the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you as the biggest party have equal responsibility. You can't be the opposition in the morning. You can't be the opposition in the evening. I have information, since I have a large number of friends in the world, that the position of Serbia and the SRJ is no longer in the international community as it once was. How can that be solved? The only way to solve this is to discuss extraordinary elections, but since this assembly cannot do it alone, first, to replace the Government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15615	Mr. Markovic, I'm warning you on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15616	It's all about the board of inquiry. I'm done. You will have our 16 signatures and we will vote to replace the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to bring this Serbia better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15617	The word is proposed by a representative, Mr. Dragan Marsicanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15618	First of all, I would like to remind the president of the Soviet Parliament group how many MPs there are in the parliamentary group, not 16 but 14. (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: He belongs to a larger group. Is that right? Okay, that's the least important. One question has been asked here, whether the Proposer stays with the proposal. The Proposer stays with the proposal. Yesterday, only an attempt was made to bring the text into line with the remarks of other parliamentary groups. Since this is not possible under the Rules of Procedure (we have found that this is not possible), we remain with the proposal. It's something unquestionably. I think you can be sure we're not changing our attitudes, so we're not changing them now. You raised the question why we did not propose the formation of a number of other committees. First of all, some of what you have stated is not about the jurisdiction of this National Assembly, but about the Federal Assembly, and because the DSS here is not the only parliamentary group. Other parliamentary groups may suggest that. What is doubtless is that this proposal remains. I will, in the final word, try to sum up this debate today. I will try to state everything we have seen through the debate as undeniable, which is what is controversial in this proposal and we will try to make a decision that is in the interest of this National Assembly and the state of Serbia. I didn't just hear, as a proposing representative, the name of your candidate, well, you'll probably point that out later, to make it official. I still wanted to say that as before today, I think the MPs of the Soviet Parliament are indeed the most disciplined ambassadors in this National Assembly. That's what I was saying then, and that's what I'm saying right now. So they're disciplined even when they're sitting here, but, for God's sake, they're disciplined and when, to support certain DOS proposals, they come out of the O.R. So, as far as discipline goes, she's doubtless. As far as attitudes are concerned, it's something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15619	Mr. Ivkovic first volunteered for the replica, so Mr. Pelevic, then Mr. Vukic, the same replica - is it(? (Employee Vukic, from the post: As a representative of the parliamentary group. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15620	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have had the opportunity to hear Mr Markovic, who blindly believes in research; just to tell you, Mr Markovic, you are coming to parliament not on the basis of the results of the survey, but on the basis of the votes of Serbian citizens. As far as I know, I absolutely didn't mention you. I mentioned the SRS, but I understand your mood since it turns out that the SRS is going to vote against the polling committee proposal, not for, so you probably wanted to make jokes. As for the truthfulness of research, please, the best result is shown on November 4th. [[Employer Vukic, from the place: Now I'm looking for a replica.]] On 4 November, elections in 16 municipalities for 666 SPS and its candidates received 24.5% of Serbian citizens. The funny thing is that the famous research agencies, not to mention their names here, spoke before the SPS had citizens' support of 6, 7, 8%, and they argued by turning 700, 800, 900 phone numbers. Then they said that 153,000 citizens who went to the polls were inadequately sampled for data that the SPS supports 24.5% of Serbian citizens. If it is considered that in various DOS machinations, representatives from the SPS have prevented themselves from running in 100 seats, I must tell you, Mr Markovic, that we have won 32% of the votes (from the hall: topic), in places where we held between 11 and 15% of the votes on 23 December 2000. I advise you to stick to the real facts, including those results, as well as the positions of your party in these elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15621	The word is Mr. Pelevic, right on the line. Replication to Mr. Dragan Marsican's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15622	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that Mr. Martian has made a series of findings regarding the Soviet Union, I just want to assure him that in our view that we will vote for his shift there really was nothing personal. I tried to make an argument about our views that Mr. Marsican should leave the office of Parliament President, but to remind you that we also voted in public, and against Ms. Natasa Micic's appointment as Parliament President. For the same reason, because they are both from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. As for the SSJ vote, we have indeed twice supported two government projects, which are the Law on Extraprofits and the Law on agencies for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is so irrelevant, it's just a technical law that doesn't essentially change anything. I also want to remind you that we voted both in principle and in particular against the Labour Act. Just to remind you once again that, thanks to the DSS votes, this highly anti-work and inhuman law was passed yesterday in the Serbian Parliament. So things are quite different than they're shown. I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15623	Right on line, Mr. Vukic to expose Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15624	I, Madam Chairman or Madam President, will not interfere with the fact that some people are getting a replica without having any basis and that they have no right to do so, because I usually don't mind when people get the right to express their opinion. I feel guilty, and it bothers me when you don't give it to us, and we have every right to have a replica. I have to admit, I didn't understand what Mr. Ivkovic was saying. Maybe I'm not smart enough to figure out what he wanted to say, what it occurred to him, but I'll repeat it for the public, and then answer him, of course, everything he said. In fact, we sent a memo because we know we're against every government bill. We have no entry, no dating in one way or another, we are the most disciplined MPs in the opposition, because we always vote against the legal proposals of the government and therefore we have sent such a type letter, but you should not have abused it in such a way, because from my presentation it was clear, the first presentation of the SRS MPs, what our relationship would be. I don't understand why it bothered Mr. Ivkovic, especially that no one from the SRS was ever the director of the tobacco factory, did not participate, nor was he mentioned in any cigarette smuggling, no one from the SRS ever accused anyone of anything like that. I don't understand why he's bothered by it. It seems he's got something against the SRS. I have nothing against it; we are politically different and proud of our political differences with the SPS; we are proud and proud of the fact that we would never talk and negotiate with Chad Jovanovic about delivering our president to The Hague; we are proud that we would never and would never talk to any of them and negotiate, which we would protect, not only the Serb people and not just our own members, but all the citizens of Serbia, which they would like to deliver in such a way. And you, Mr. Ivkovic, ask yourself why you needed it, why today and as a joke, not only in Serbia, but I hear and beyond, in Republika Srpska and Montenegro, it circles: "Why Osama Bin Laden cannot be arrested -- there is no Banet and Chad to go there, and they cannot catch them." That's what you should have thought, when you're talking about it, and as far as the SRS is concerned, we're going to have a principled relationship, a principle attitude, the way we've always had, consistent, opposition, we're not going to go in and out of the cards when someone doesn't have a majority, but we're going to stay and vote for the polling board, so to explore the role of the authorities in this affair, to see who's responsible for what's happening to the tobacco smuggler; and don't forget, it's the most profitable job today, and we're going to solve that. As for constantly some polls and something that individuals mention, they come out here and mention even those polls that, by the way, are irrelevant and usually made up. I must say, when Vojislav Seselj won, in Serbia in time, that a daily newspaper, according to some agencies and research, gave him 3.8% of the votes. It's all possible. It doesn't bother us, it's all good and good for us, we can't wait for the election, because the government boasts that it stands extraordinary, and representatives of the DSS, and representatives of the DOS, and others boast. Here, we ask that the election be called as soon as possible, to see what the people say in these elections. These elections are much more important than your television, your radio stations, than your newspaper, so let's see who goes by. As for Mr. Martian...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15625	Mr. Wolfie, it's the fifth minute, and this is the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15626	I'm done. I see you're very zealously following every second of my exposure. As for the one whom Mr. Martian praised, I am proud that he has never praised us on any television, I am proud that we are his afflicted, not scarred (I used the wrong expression), but fierce political opponents, we are proud of it. And besides, we're talking and using all seven downfalls, we can't be any more rude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15627	The word has been made by MP Branislav Ivkovic, the second announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15628	As things stand, ladies and gentlemen, here should be a little more survey committees made in this assembly, that through these survey committees -- out of the consciousness of each of us that every thing still comes out eventually -- somehow sort things out in this assembly and improve relations, it becomes clearer who, to whom and where it belongs. Because here's one coincidence, to put an objection to the Rules of Procedure, that it wasn't in order, that the MP group with the least MPs spoke first, and more, and more, and it turned out to be "the rabbit, and the bear," it turns out that one of the groups that is declarative for some proposal is essentially reporting that it's against the proposal, and then over time it's slowly going, and then the man is asking, is the use of the glass with water random or not? You know, behavior here, for a congregation speaker like this, can be very different from the essential way of acting and agreeing, which happens on different sides. However, in principle it is very important -- if someone is once on the board of inquiry, and especially allows himself to be a proponent of the formation of a polling committee, then in principle, the parliamentary group should always support proposals for the formation of survey committees. Here, for this speaker, the SPS parliamentary group requested the formation of a polling committee on events, which the MPs of the current polling committees made clear, even held a press conference and a spokesman and the parties pointed to five members of the Constitution, who were injured on June 28th, who were not injured, but violated -- that no one from Serbia can be extradited, that even in such a situation they have the right to seek the protection of Serbia's justice system for their personal integrity. And the parliamentary group, at the moment of proposing such a polling committee, which is to be examined, even confirms the justification of their public views and their president, votes against the formation of the polling committee. Of course SPS MPs will vote for formation, not against, like some. So it's to form a survey board. Because we believe that whoever is exercising power, whether in Serbia's judicial system or in the government of the Republic of Serbia, must know that sometimes in this assembly someone can propose and get most of it, and then control their work. This is the quality for Serbian citizens, this is the formation of a survey board, so we will vote for the formation of a survey board and we have given our member, even we propose that it would be good for the authority to have the chairman of the polling committee as someone from the opposition parties. Because the truth, for example, is not true that there is such a thing is great, but, otherwise, the truth that it exists is essential and represents clearing up to the end. Therefore, SPS MPs will vote for the formation of a polling committee, one should put an ad act on the subject, but they will also vote because we want Serbian citizens to have the awareness that those who exercise power always know, both now and in future times, that here a group of people of these MPs, the national representatives, will have the task of examining any possible public event. That's the principle. But I have the right, as a representative of the motions for the formation of committees of inquiry relating to arrest and kidnapping, to oppose and to suggest that we are essentially not experiencing entering your respective DOS accounts. We don't get into them, we don't get into them. We generally vote in favour of the polling committee, but we are caught up in the fact that you were against the formation of such a polling committee and we expect that the motionary here, in the final word, will state his parliamentary group's position, that in the future the parliamentary group will be in principle for the formation of the polling committee, because it has allowed itself to form a polling committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15629	Thank you. It was the second report by Mr. Ivkovic, which caused the replica, which Mr. Tomislav Nikolic has the right to do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is in principle against any draft law, which is submitted by your majority in the National Assembly. It was a typical form, but it's already a discussion of Alexander Vukic, and our views publicly expressed in connection with the tobacco affair, they're clearly telling you that we're going to be in favour of forming a survey board. There's something else that's been specifically outlined today in this assembly -- the reconciliation within DOS is returning to old positions and some people and entire political parties. Then when you thought you were going to break up, they were dividing between you and it was obvious who was going to which side. Now that you have to be unique again, now you're going to have those associates you had again. Mr. Ivkovic, we bathed the Martian because he smelled of democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15631	Mr. Nikolic, please take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15632	Mrs. Micic, if he hadn't been a non-democracy, you wouldn't have been the president of the National Assembly; he would never have been removed. It's a fact that you're defending him now, and you've taken his position. He was replaced because he was a non-democracy in this congregation. DOS has long earned good fishing and swimming. But, Mr. Ivkovic, you're trying to load a Serbian radical party with something that's not here. We don't have your behavior with the Belgrade friar. Our party president has none among MPs, nor among a hundred members of the Central Country Administration of none who would come to his home with Cedo Jovanovic to convince him that he should believe Djindjic and Kostunica's promises and afterwards dive crocodile tears where his party president is. We have such members who would come with guns to defend him if someone attacked his house. I guarantee you that, and don't try that. Don't even think about trying if we're ready to do it or not. We're ready for that. And to betray our president and regret that he is not there and we measure his position; there are no such people in the Serbian Radical Party. In the Socialist Party of Serbia, there are such people, and today you have shown that you are one of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15633	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15634	Ladies and gentlemen, you don't need to waste words about the health damage of cigarettes or the seconds I've received. However, when it comes to cigarette smuggling, it is harmful not only for health but also for the budget. Whether or not we're going to reduce his health and budget damage, and increase the damage to the smugglers, it's up to you today. It is obvious that this polling committee must respond to the link between the top of the government, the Prime Minister and the smuggling lobby, in particular in light of the regulation that has been adopted. There's something else that characterizes this time when cigarettes are involved, which is that there's never been more cigarette advertising in Serbia than today; in all the media, they're full of ads, advertising tables. Today, when a mass anti-smoking campaign is under way in the world, it is mass advertising in Serbia. It's all upside down again. It is amazing that in light of the desire to develop this country, especially Djindjic, Vela Ilic, including Canak, are propagating various cigarette factories and that this will help Serbia develop. Please, in the world today, thousands of people are dying from the harmful functioning of cigarettes; today in Serbia millions are being spent on treating people because of smoking cigarettes. Never in any country have tobacco factories created development. It may have benefited individuals and their factories, but when the problem is more fully looked at, it is seen that more damage and investment in the treatment of these people, then in advertising, because the weak and thin will of individuals who want to leave cigarettes. Therefore, gentlemen, do not build the development of this country on the poisoning of your own people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15635	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15636	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, one United Nations agency conducted a survey in 1999 that included Serbia, the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, among the ten countries in the world where corruption was most developed. In 2000, the same agency repeated its research, and then Serbia, at the rate of corruption, was in a solid second place. Nigeria alone was a more corrupt country, a country with a higher level of organised corruption. Of course, the greatest form of corruption is the kind of organised crime, so where there's a rope with the state administration. It would be completely naive to believe, and I don't think any of us belong to such naive people, that by changing the political system in December last year, corruption itself disappeared. It is clearly impossible to do so, especially when it comes to a country that has been isolated from countries in its environment for ten years, which has been the real center of all possible illegal trafficking, from weapons and narcotics of overtransmitters of prostitution, trafficking in white slaves, to organised tobacco trade and tobacco products. The latest events, especially the one that took place at one of the Thessaloniki port warehouses, show that the largest cigarette warehouse in Southeast Europe has been discovered so far. If we know a few more information about this, such as that of the Italian Ministry of Finance, which is otherwise in charge of tobacco and tobacco products, in the past few years has been dealing with the story of co-operation between the tobacco mafia in Italy, and what could be called the state establishment in another federal unit of SRJ, or Montenegro, it is clear that Serbia could not pass the wave of organised crime, i.e. smuggling of tobacco and tobacco products in the area of Southeast Europe. For these reasons, it is more than necessary to set up a committee of inquiry. Clearly, the National Assembly is the very institution, the largest home of the national representation, in which there should be a barrier that will oppose such tendencies. In doing so, it's clear and I don't think there's any need to overexplain it, that no one has been convicted in advance. It would be extremely irresponsible if they would advancely claim that the government of the Republic of Serbia is behind organised crime. Of course, no one can confirm that this is the case, but it is a matter of the committee of inquiry to determine whether there is some kind of corruption in the bodies of the state administration, i.e. the trade between the state administration and organised crime. In this sense, it is an educational example of what happened in Montenegro, where such a survey committee was formed, which thanks to the complexity of Montenegrin opportunities received a second connotation. I suppose, thanks to the different political mile that exists in the Republic of Serbia, such connotations will not be in the work of this polling committee. On the other hand, regardless of how they treated the "National", the Financial Times and the "Gardian", therefore, according to all those papers that wrote about the existence of an organized crime dealing with tobacco and tobacco products and the structure of government in the Republic of Serbia, regardless of how they treated those lists, it is important that, as Parliament and as the Assembly, we respond adequately to all the misunderstandings that exist in this regard. Simply put, no matter what I, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the people who work in the government think, it has nothing to do with the reputation of the Republic of Serbia and what is called the reform process, or the transition process in which we are currently in place. So it's much more important for all of us to take down the brand that exists and which the leading international media is broadcasting. So it's not a political problem either, it's not political rivalry either. It's just, it's a lot more serious. In order for more serious investors, and of course we need investments, not donations, we need investors, and not donors, to invest their capital in this country, Serbia must show that it is a serious European country that will completely demystify any story of organised crime in its administration, which will demystify every story that claims there is a spread of organised crime and the Government of the Republic of Serbia or conclude something else, and we cannot judge in advance. But in any case, it is important to show that we are as a country and as the first democratic authority after ten years of the authoritarian system able to deal with all the negative phenomena that exist in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15637	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15638	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, esteemed journalists, ladies and gentlemen from opposition political parties, let's focus our political energy as a political laser on just one point: the name of this point is DOS. Let's not chase political opponents at the moment. The time will come for us to burn politically in another political environment and in a different relationship of strength. We are not wasting our strength in that direction that can serve as a political amalgam of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. With regard to the poll committee proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia is in principle for the formation of every polling committee, i.e. the polling committee on all issues that can resolve certain doubts, which are put before the MPs, because of the impressions created in the public, because of the actions or inaction of the authorities, because of the misrepresentation of the authorities, and because of the adverse consequences that this action has on the citizens of Serbia and the people of Serbia. A few weeks ago on the Defense and Security Committee on this matter, I said a few sentences, which I'm going to repeat here. For a year since it's been operating as a government, the DOS is still talking about organized crime. Dear gentlemen, there is no organized crime between the opposition and criminals. If organized crime exists, it can only exist between criminals and officials. If you said on the Security Committee that organized crime exists, then there's a claim that at this point there's a rope between criminals and people in power. (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: That is not true. You accused each other here yesterday; you transferred a ball of responsibility from the federal to the republican level and brought it back again. As MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, as opposition MPs, we do not care who is responsible. We are interested, and therefore we will vote in favour of this committee of inquiry, whether there is a responsibility of the people of the government in respect of what representatives of the polling committee have stated in their request for its formation. Also, I want to say a few more things about this subject. At the moment in Serbia, Mr Dusan Mihajlovic, the minister of police in the government of the Republic of Serbia, is the most responsible for crime prevention. True, he didn't qualify for this place by dealing with crime earlier in the police department. He was head of Belgrade's UDBE analyst for the internal enemy, so for Chetnik emigration and Serbian nationalists. However, he has advisors who can help him to probably bring this thing to that level that is wanted for some organization here. You have for nothing given this man to take care of those who violate the rules of conduct in Serbia. You left a goat next to the cabbage. It is not good for Serbia, nor for this country, nor for all those who intend to work honestly and live honestly from their work. Here I will read a brief quote from Mr. Pukanic, which is on the question why "Nacional" brings all these strong texts about Mr. Djindjic, said: "I also have nothing against Zoran Djindjic. It's not my fault he entered with Stanko Subotic Canet into certain variants. He must explain his ties with Sutotic to the Serbian people, not to me. I did not use Subotic's plane to save on the budget, as Djindjic said. It must also explain why a cigarette factory in Kragujevac was to be built, besides those in Nis and Vranj. Why did he come to conflict with Nenad Canka over a tobacco factory in Vojvodina? It's not all mine, it's his problems, and I'm not working for any lobby, and least of all for the Rovinj tobacco factory, which they tried to impute me." So that's what Mr. Pukanić said. (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: And you trust the Croats, the Socialists. ) Dear gentlemen, we are here today in front of a built-up dilemma: whether there is enough good side in the existing DOS to gain the sympathy of Serbian citizens in a sufficiently good way. For the SPS there is no difference; you are the government in Serbia, you are the one who is responsible for the exercise of that authority and will not draw any attention from what the real problems are today in Serbia, and the real problems in Serbia today are that we have a lower standard than a year ago, more prices, a worse tax system, that we have abnormal privatisation, anti-reform and anti-work law. Speaking of that law, all the media called in orchestra last night...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15639	Please, we have completed the Labour Act and return to the agenda, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15640	Dear Mrs. Micic, be kind enough to finish what I'm about to do. All media said last night that representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian Unity Party voted against the law. Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Party of Serbian Unity voted against the law. Serbian Radical Party MPs used their rights and did not vote, at all, when the law was at stake. It can be checked on the document, it's their political right, but apparently someone had an interest in putting them in another group. They said what they wanted yesterday during this vote. (Milka Marinkovic, from the post: Read what the Croats write about Milosevic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15641	Replication to Mr. Baralic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, for days, as long as the debate on the draft labour law lasted, gave its opinion, it seems clear to me to the whole of Serbia. So that Mr. Baralic wouldn't be smart and he wouldn't keep the public informed about some truths, and I don't know what, I went straight to the vote for this pay phone and said that because of all the manifesto, because of all the machinations, the card draws, who puts the cards, where and how he votes, we won't do it at all; our votes won't get to say who he is, how and how he voted. Don't laugh. If we had voted yes or against, however, that law would have been passed. When it was supposed to be against the presence of the O.R., we were all here and we were all against it. Come out and tell me if we helped DOS any way to vote any act, like you did by voting for the Chamber Act. Please state what act, apart from the Declaration on Kosovo and Metohija, all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have declared. What kind of act is that? (A voice from the O.R.: Privatisation Act. We were against the Privatization Act. We voted against the Privatisation Act. So much so that you don't deceive the public, it's good to say. I know you have a problem with the SRS. What do I do to you? Then don't demagoguely come out of the pay phone and tell the people how you are about such or such opposition unity, and then you'll be corrupt and perfiduous in the end -- they weren't, they were not, and that's their attitude. Mr Baralic, I said what the position of the SRS parliamentary group is, clearly and loudly came out for this pay phone and told all of Serbia what our position is, not you to go out and interpret what my position is and what the SRS's position is. You're going to teach us what kind of attitude we need to be? You teach us what our parliamentary group will be like, are we going to act opposition or not? You're going to teach us, which every time you say a word to Cedi Jovanovic, you come down and pat him on the shoulder? You will teach us who and how opposition in the Assembly will behave and how and how will we react? The SRS parliamentary group never does anything in secret. We work in public, we go out for this pay phone in front of Serbian citizens, except when they take our word or give us a reminder from the chairman for only her known reasons, so she starts recalibrating us. So whenever we have the opportunity, we turn to the people and citizens of Serbia and tell them the truth. Please excuse your participation in many of these matters. Excuse me, please, we're very sorry to vote for some of these laws. We are neither and I am convinced that, in this mandate, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote for any of these proposals; neither is the proposal for judicial laws submitted by the DSS, which you also voted for, ladies and gentlemen of the SAA. That's not what the SRS is and won't do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15643	National MP Aleksandar Vukic had a replica of the presentation of MP Rajko Baralic (Alexander Vukic: No right. [[Branislav Ivkovic: I have the right to replica on behalf of the parliamentary group.]] ) Replica was on the presentation of MPs from your parliamentary group. This concludes the round of mutual exchanges between SPS and SRS parliamentary groups Here you go. [[Branislav Ivkovic: I have the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15644	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it's a clear situation. Mr Baralic spoke directly to Mr Baralic's presentation, but in the replica, the MP who spoke before me directly insulted the parliamentary group and the SPS in general. I, as a representative of the SPS and as a member of the Secretariat of the Executive Board of the SPS, only remains to realize that the intensity of the performance of certain people behind this speaker shows the extent of their internal unrest and feelings where they are struck by the results of 4 November this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15645	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. The basis for the replica - an insult to the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15646	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, don't talk about anger, Mr. Ivkovic; I may have an excess of emotion. It's either my parents' fault or it's my parents' fault; I guess they're genes. Don't insult them because I believe what I'm saying, because I'm honestly doing what I'm saying. Don't insult me because you've been reported and you're acting like a Belgrade dude from a circle of two, who's going to play nice here for all of Serbia, and I don't know what or who. I didn't insult anyone with a single word, except for telling the facts. The fact that it bothers you is something else and I won't talk about it again, Mr. Ivkovic, except I said what the whole of Serbia knows. Your problem is you can't deny it, Mr. Ivkovic. Let me tell you that already today in some newspapers, even though I don't believe in any of these research, we're already close to another place. The only thing I know is what's the schedule on Interpol's research and warrants. There's the first Democratic Party, the second is the SS, and we're nowhere on that list. Mr. Ivkovic, it is better and more honorable for a man to live one day like a hawk, not for a lifetime as a mouse, to apologize and worship his alleged opponents, to beg them and beg them. I'd rather, Mr. Ivkovic, get out of politics, I couldn't look my child, my son in the eye, and come down and ask Chad Jovanovic for mercy, as you do. You should be ashamed, both of you and your choices.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15647	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15648	According to the Rules of Procedure, such committees are allowed to be formed, and this item of the agenda is accepted by most MPs, from which I conclude that there is a mood to discuss this issue. The press first raised the issue of tobacco production and transport, in part in a sensational way, but is also part of the press that supports the Serbian government's programme also opened the issue, bringing out a number of indications and facts that require that they be really checked. In addition, the Serbian government has said on several occasions that the gray economy market has been reduced, but a percentage is listed in which there is no control by the government for that market, so it is also one of the reasons why it has defined us to come out before this assembly with a proposal to form a survey board. As you have noticed, the time period in which the production and traffic of tobacco will be determined has not been established, so the proposal that those who are considered to be true opposition take part in this work is not bad, because I think they have experience as previous government, so they could help clarify a number of facts. On the other hand, this country was admitted to Interpol. It is, on the one hand, recognition, but also obligations and met conditions are not met for ever, but will be kept under constant review. In addition, as far as it can be concluded, this country will soon knock on the door of the Council of Europe. In order to become a member of the Council of Europe, the state must have a clear situation in many fields, especially when it comes to what we are talking about today, the production and transport of tobacco. To those who have said that this is proposed to go against the crowd, I recommend that others do not judge themselves. I therefore recommend this proposal to your attention and expect you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15649	The People's Messenger Marijan Rističević has the word, and after him, the MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the Vojvodina Coalition at the beginning of this session have suggested that this item be removed from the agenda. Turns out we were absolutely right. Asking for this point to be withdrawn from the agenda, we didn't want to save the government. We wanted to save the man's honor. Such a proposal usually comes from opposition lines, this is the first time someone has proposed a committee of inquiry to investigate the government's work and that it is the ruling party. What our people say is, "one crow can't squat on two stakes." I suggest you seriously consider whether it's the government or the opposition. Dragan Markovic-Palma noted this well, so I would recommend to the head of the MP's group that he recommend that the party president recommend this recommendation to Dragan Markovic as a forced manager, that the promoter be a little consolidated. At the same time, I suggest that the motion be withdrawn and apologized to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why would I think that? The proposal for a decision and the Priory found the fault of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If the government is guilty, criminal charges are filed against persons from the government who have allowed tobacco smuggling, i.e. in the text of that decision, damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the federal state. The composition of the survey board does not reflect the situation in the Republika Srpska Assembly. That's another reason. The third reason, as regards the period covered by the proposal for this decision on the education of the survey board, it is clearly 2001. Whose interest it is to be covered just in 2001, not the previous years. To be clear, it's an interest of smugglers. The only person damaged by the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are smugglers. They functioned in Serbia for six or seven years, smuggled tobacco and cigarettes, and when the government of the Republic of Serbia got in their way, I suppose they got into one political party or proposed such a proposal, in order to bring down regulations by the government of the Republic of Serbia that interfere with the work of smugglers. That's what I'm gonna prove. The tobacco law that is being prepared should cover tobacco production, tobacco processing, tobacco production, wholesale trade and retail trade. In drawing up the regulations that were provisionally adopted, and it turns out that one of the government's vice-presidents from the drafts took part: the Federal Customs Administration, the Federal Committee on AP Kosovo and Metohija, the Co-ordination Body for Kosovo and Metohija, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Public Revenue, the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The adoption of the regulation, two out of three, came on the basis of conclusions on the taking of concrete measures to achieve the functions of state authorities, which were adopted by the Federal and Republic Government at a joint session of 23 May this year. Therefore, the regulation was not brought by the government of the Republic of Serbia itself, but was also attended by federal authorities in the drafting of the regulation. The only person who can be threatened by the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have already said, are smugglers. So let's see, for the last six years, the former government has charged 700 tons of cigarettes of excise, tax, etc. 700 tons of cigarettes. The government of the Republic of Serbia has charged 3,166 tonnes in eight months this year; if we take it as established in February, we can say in seven months. In transit, too, the government charged excise duties for 2,000 tonnes of cigarettes. The production of domestic cigarettes, thanks to these government measures, has jumped and is 75% of the total needs of the Republic of Serbia. For the first time in 12 years, a low factory works in three shifts. In eight months this year, the production of domestic cigarettes is higher than in the whole last year. The use of foreign cigarettes from 33% was reduced to 25% and thus the government's result is even higher. What was the idea of a decision like this to do? That the government is being accused in advance, and the composition of the board is in favour of the former government, which says it would be good for someone from the opposition to stand at the helm. There's some logic there, since they know very well how to smuggle it, when they've charged their taxes for 160 tonnes of cigarettes all year round, and they're asking to investigate a government that's charged it all for 3,200 tonnes in eight months. (Doljub Stamenkovic, from the place: Ah, what, is the government untouchable? ) How much less pensions, social benefits, etc. last year, I don’t need to talk about it. So, the former government doesn't want to investigate the work of the former government, which apparently did nothing in this area, but wants to get revenge on the new government for doing something. I propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia invite Interpol to make a report, and we believe Interpol, to produce a report on the smuggling of cigarettes in our area, given that it is cigarettes originating in foreign states, that the report is requested by the government and that it be delivered simultaneously to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and all parliamentary groups. I think that's the only solution and that this decision on the education of the survey board doesn't make sense, that this is pure politicisation, that it's trying to pull analogy out of Montenegro, and for that there's a folk saying, "She saw a frog bitch, so she took a leg." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15651	The People's MP Vladimir Garčević has the word, followed by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15652	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I thought that those who handle the National Assembly adhere to some basic principles, which are the principles of truth and equality of all MPs and all MPs. Unfortunately, I have to tell the former president now, although I don't want to tell the former, Mr. Marsican, next -- it was your obligation to help determine the truthfulness of our survey board. I think that, if there is any honesty, the new chairman, since it is not the president, that he will put it on the agenda and that all the proposals submitted by the parliamentary groups, when it comes to determining the actual situation, will be treated equally and that he will be able to pass through the polling committee, with the correct work of the polling committee to come to some knowledge. It cannot be delivered in the country of Serbia, and unfortunately I see that it is still threatening Serbs from our current government to deliver to The Hague; so it does not matter, they say, they took citizenship more recently and we will deliver them. What it means is, if we had established the truth then we would have created some legal views through that survey board of what who did the given moment and there would be no more polemics whose and what role it was. It has been prevented, but you should know the following: preventing the polling committee from coming is confessing and your guilt. On the other hand, why are the DOS individuals now afraid of the polling committee? Why did they get caught up in a panic? What's that for? The Committee of Auditors is nothing more than to determine the actual state of affairs, hopefully, of people who find themselves in it that they will work only correctly, honestly, that based on the documentation they will say -- that's what's happening. We all know, cigarette smuggling goes. If the smuggling goes, let's see how. No one has the right -- as the current government does, which declares judges guilty before guilty -- to find people guilty before being questioned. Everything the current government does. As a congregation, we don't blame anyone now, we want to come to some knowledge. Please, knowledge can be dual: it can confirm our basic doubts or deny it. If he confirms his suspicions of smuggling and government involvement, then someone will answer what he's doing. If not, then it will allow that authority a normal approach to what they have advocated - transparent, fair, public. Well, give the DOS MPs, fill out those three things. It means public, well fair, then transparent. This Committee, if equalising all parties in it is possible, will allow for the truth. On the other hand, he says, we need most of us, DOS says, we need most of us to vote on the board. I think the board should work fairly, regardless of whether it's the opposition, whether it's the government. That really based on the fact that he does it. It's not the opposition's fault if someone was driving on some of Cannet's planes. It's not the opposition's fault. He shouldn't have barged into that man when he knew he was being investigated in Montenegro, perhaps even wider. Therefore, please, Kosovo is holding a representative of the authorities of Covic. Let the smuggling of cigarettes, via the Tower, Rožaj and down Ribarić, say he cannot, prevent it from going to Kosovo. Excuse me, please, a cigarette smuggling from Kosovo to Serbia can be prevented. It's not true he can't. Don't let the people talk, they say across the crossing for Croatia go trucks and loads and loads of cigarettes. It's in your time, not ours. ) Bill, and you continued, which means you were involved at the time and you were running that smuggling along with others. So the government smuggled cigarettes, and now it's smuggling. So let the government see where he is. (I'd like to ask the MP, when you come out I won't say if you should sit down. You should do it by law, you promised. Don't be afraid to prove what's not proven. Sure, it'll prove a lot of things. I hope that this committee of inquiry is the beginning of other committees of inquiry in this assembly; that this will all come on the agenda, including the responsibility of the ministers for which the materials have been submitted, somewhere since the beginning of May, to be placed on this agenda. I think that once we should, if we want everything to be transparent, fair, not fear the committees, but put them on the agenda and create conditions for their work. They'll do their job right. People who are afraid mean they have something unclean. Don't be afraid. Our citizens want to know, and now I'm going to say, 10% less cigarette smuggling, 30% increase in education, not to beg the minister by 10% or 20%. The next 10% means providing health care to raise their salaries. Stop the transparent smuggling of cigarettes and the budgets will be full.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15653	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, followed by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15654	For the past 12 years, we have witnessed major criminalizations of society and, particularly worrying, the awakening of organised crime. In its criminal activity, the Mafia is always relying, in all countries, on part of the state structure. In the previous period, it was once customs, it used to be police, and it used to be some federal and republican ministries. Isn't that right, socialist gentlemen? These phenomena still exist today, and the state must be extremely energically defended, brutally accounted for, and especially with organised crime that gnaws the tissue of every society. Today, however, we have a new phenomenon. Today, the state speeds up its legal solutions, facilitates the mafia's criminal activity. The government of the Republic of Serbia, by adopting its regulations, practically facilitates this activity to the end and that is what is worrying about the previous period. Yesterday we had an example that one part, one representative of the government, Mr. Martian, gave us several examples, and related to the smuggling of cigarettes. Imagine if that's what the government's saying, that's how it's done, what's the real situation in that field. In that sense, I advocate to establish this committee of inquiry, by staying on the SRS proposal to be on parity principle, from each parliamentary group to one representative at a time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15655	The People's MP Dragan Tomic has the word, followed by MP Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15656	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS advocates unconditionally the establishment of a polling committee on the identification, who manufactures and carries out traffic, because on the domestic ground, too, foreign cigarettes are partly produced. I get the impression when someone puts up fences and says, if this survey board looks like this, it puts the condition that he should look, that he's automatically against forming a survey board. Says Bogdanovic, you who stole. Bogdanovic, unlike you, I don't have my own private company at all (Nenad Bogdanović, from the place: I don't have any. I live off my salary and I never had a private company. Therefore, I absolutely advocate that this survey committee be formed and that many facts be established. What facts? It is very important, almost fatally important also because of this country, because many facts are mentioned. Among the first, spending foreign cigarettes worth over a billion and a half marks per year in Serbia. It's just foreign production. The domestic producers aren't great here either. So we'll determine all the facts. The power of this committee can be extremely large, if this assembly gives him authority, the committee can propose measures to state authorities, the Assembly to adopt those conclusions, to definitely fight cigarette smuggling once. I have no intention of defending anyone in the previous period, nor the SPS, nor this parliamentary group intends to defend anyone who has dealt with these suspicious actions, because it has definitely damaged the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. And we care about definitely establishing -- who are the bearers of the process, who are the bearers of organised crime in the area, and who are the biggest tax evasionrs in the area? Of course, if we do not declare from this pay phone the conditions, if we do not declare that we are not asking each other for another reason to determine these facts. And, of course, that we don't form any quasi-caves to fight corruption, from some advice from old people who never knew in their lives, and they couldn't or could not do the job. What is important in the work of this committee - it is important to establish a list of enterprises in Serbia that are authorised to deal with tobacco traffic; a list of free shops that can be engaged in the production of tobacco; a list of those involved in the import of cigarette paper, which deal with the import of fermentation and all that is necessary for the production of cigarettes; cooperation between domestic companies; who are authorized freighters, who are in the area carrying out the transport of documents and papers. Then there will be no problem for any of the parliamentary groups, and I mean neither the Government of the Republic of Serbia nor anyone else, nor the Federal Government, of course, if we get to that -- what are these flows? And this is the ability of the board, in my opinion, to come to this -- what are the flows, from which the centres are coming, where are they distributed, what are the ways in which this quasi-business is done, and what are the losses of the state of Serbia, i.e. the SRJ in that area? I think it's a lot more important to us than some help we're going to get from 15 million marks or 15 million dollars. And then we will certainly be able and able, as a state of Serbia, to serve our health obligations, according to education, and according to the functioning of the state administration, and to the economy as well. How these streams go - through a crisis. We are still a very potent area and a crisis hotspot, through which you can easily do it, there is someone who can handle crises in this area, because we have secluded areas of territory or angry politicians in some areas, who always have certain ultimatums. It is no secret that it has been done through Montenegro for years, through Republika Srpska, and now it is said to be done through Kosovo and Metohija. Whether or not it's working, I don't know, but that board can determine the fact-- whether it's there or not. Data are known to be that self-called, though registered in front of official state authorities, freighters, who out of all things at a border crossing purchase one central container and place two to three officials, traffic or earnings annually from 500,000 to 1,000 marks. What is it or what is it that you can't see and what is made to be a transit paper? It's only when the state of Yugoslavia charges at the entrance, so when the tow truck comes out of the country, comes back, then we won't have a problem. You know, there's a lot of paperwork that we're transiting in that area, and we're not. There's no exit paper anywhere for those who come in, but they never go out with a cigarette trunk. Well, at least then you take away the boot, empty if nothing else. So, I don't know, maybe there are invisible travels in Serbia, so I guess Mr. Janjic, since he's been making some statements in the press these days about how invisible planes travel, can also explain the smuggling of cigarettes, since he's there in the border area, how these things work. Of course, to go back to what's important about all of this -- if this assembly is interested, but not declarative; and don't spill the dust from here that we are in, but if, then we put a point; there is no -- if, but we are or we are not. If we are, and here, Milka says that she is, then, of course, we as MPs, who were elected by some people, and he expects us to solve these issues, will be responsible in that sense and form this committee of inquiry. There is a possibility that it could be formed and is in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of this congregation. So, with all the fences that have been discussed here, we're going to be in a position to raise that question and work in the area, draw certain conclusions. Since we are in the process of preparing the budget for next year, and we are publicly saying that we are interested until the end, without conditions, in that area, then we certainly expect all parliamentary groups to take certain measures, agree their views and come up with that committee to start working: that in some time, which we will or won't, we will come to a situation that we know who was really dealing with it; who is still dealing with it; whether or not there is damage to this country. If there is, then those who have done so must respond; or at least pay for tax evasion, if nothing more. If there are state authorities, let's see who they are, and if they don't, then let's say publicly that there isn't and that we support the state's authorities in the fight against it. If there is, that someone answers on that basis; and, of course, if they are outside the institutions, to make them publicly branded and to bear sanctions as provided for by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15657	Thank you. There's a word from MP Slobodan Janjic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15658	Since I have no right to speak by the standards of democratic authority, I am taking the opportunity to replicate to the gentleman. Since an incomplete quote of my statement came out in the paper, I will read it to you: "On 3.12.2001, at 13 o'clock and 7 minutes at the border crossing of Čukarka, the Yugoslav-Macedonian border, Mr. Borislav Novakovic (this is the gentleman in the fifth row), a blinded black Mercedes, from which he came out bearing in his right hand a larger briefcase and in his left coat; on foot he reached the border ramp of the Yugoslav border, where he held a direct phone conversation with Zoran Djindjic at the crossing. The conversation lasted a few minutes and after a conversation was held, a vehicle of the Audi A-8 Belgrade registration mark came in front of a customs office building in Belgrade, with dark glass, in which Mr Novakovic sat and headed towards Belgrade. During all this time, customs and police authorities have not exercised any control over the travel documents of a person entering the country, i.e. Mr. Novakovic, nor the content of the above-mentioned act, carried by Mr. Novakovic, because officials were ordered from the highest place to remove themselves from the border crossing into the interior of the customs building, until the gentleman mentioned left the border crossing. Climbing into the n.e.c. The car just smiled, "Hi, guys." How is it possible for someone to be within 13 hours and seven minutes within 450km of Belgrade and at the same time vote in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. "It's connected to this agenda point and you'll be quiet now. There is information that Mr. Zoran Djindjic himself bought the entire production of "Partner" cigarettes and that therefore our market is flooded with these cigarettes, which are much worse quality than domestic cigarettes of the same class. To be able to work, the former Prime Minister, Zoran Djindjic, should be arrested immediately today to prevent the destruction of documentation and pressure on witnesses and accomplices. What's certain is that the head of the tobacco mafia is Mr. Zoran Djindjic, former Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister is William Montgomery, Ambassador...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15659	You've been taken from the word, the next measure is, as you know, a distance from the session. Please take care of what you say. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15660	Madam Chairman, my time is not up, your time is up. I was quoting, and as I quote, time stops. The Prime Minister is William Montgomery, an ambassador of the United States, who is an extended hand of criminals who bombed cities and villages, and our murdered citizens and children were only collateral damage. One more sentence. By the way, during the operation, cigarette smuggling is worth $160m, organised by Stanko Sutotic, Zoran Djindjic, Milo Djukanovic, Neboja Covic, Hasim Thaci and Hekerup. Cigarettes go from Montenegro, via Serbia and enter Kosovo. You know that well. Gentlemen of the DOS, very soon you'll be begging God to pick you up some police stamp and put behind bars to protect you from angry citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15661	The word has a folk MP, Stanko Kovacevic, please prepare MP Branislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15662	The honourable presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, following the nebuloses heard about this speaker, it is really hard to talk about any proposal. It became relatively known that when I showed up at this pay phone, one of the socialists gave me a very good clagworth. And today, the SPS gentlemen, Mr Obradovic and Mr Bane Ivkovic, gave me good cream, but about him a little later. The question arises as to why this proposal is today on the agenda of the Assembly. Our friends from the DSS had to find a reason why they were returning to the congregation, so with some proposal for the Assembly they had to come. For another reason, our DSS friends have had to find some sort of compensation for several very independent behaviours in the last six months, which has absolutely proved that they are not ready to work together with DOS to realize the programming goals that we have set for ourselves and promised to the citizens of our country. Then the next question is, who can make a proposal like this at this point? He can only be uninformed or ill-intentioned. That the proposer was very well informed, he speaks the brightness of the data he presented yesterday in an explanation. Therefore, the possibility that he made this proposal out of ignorance is out of the question. And that he is very well informed, also says the fact that all parliamentary groups have received a clear report from the competent ministry on the activities of the government of the Republic of Serbia on this plan. So they're also very well informed, so that's the element. There's no evil intention or malice left. It didn't happen again. Why is that going to happen? It must be shown again that the DSS is fighting for cleanliness in the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and probably wants to absorb their own responsibility through this proposal. If the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia exists, and no one can abolize that responsibility, regardless of which they have withdrawn their members from the government and their vice president, because they may be forgiven if it says that only their members have withdrawn from the government because they are responsible for the poor work of the government. And if they were very well informed and were to point to the current degree of problem of illegal tobacco trade in our country, then their proposal would have to be quite different. When my colleagues asked me last night, "Kovavić, would you vote to form a survey board? ", I said, "Yes, I would vote for him, provided that point 3 of the proposal is put into practice and that point 4 is expelled, as the head of our parliamentary group has suggested. "Unfortunately, such a proposal is impossible to accept. That the proposal is completely unfounded, the best say is the fact that the Serbian government made several moves this year, reducing the illegal tobacco market dramatically. This is best said in the data: in 2000 the total imports of tobacco amounted to 160 tonnes, and in eight and a half months this year, the imports were 3.196 tonnes. The next data -- the Republic of Serbia's budget, thanks to such activity, is increased by 391 million dinars each month, or nearly 5 billion dinars each year. If the Serbian government hadn't taken it, the budget would have been really damaged. In an explanation of his proposal, the proposal said the survey committee's task is to determine the responsibility of the government and the degree of damage to the Republika Srpska's budget by the fact that an illegal tobacco market exists, and forgets that the Serbian government has taken over this market from 50% of the illegal tobacco market, and has reduced it to only 17% by six and a half months of work and activity, including regulations. They forget that of the total and legal traffic of tobacco, 95% of the import tobacco went to an illegal market. Who did this in the last period? We're going back to creamworth. A man should be crossed when representatives of the SPS come out for this speaker and say- we advocate the formation of a survey board, for the current determination of the degree of the illegal tobacco market, and cannot say what they have been doing back a few years. If the degree of damage to Serbia's budget or to any state was the volume of illegal tobacco traffic on the market, then the JUL-Radical-SPS government could not rule Serbia for a day back ten years. And the Serbian government has no reason to fear even threats to the polling committees, as data on the results of the measures carried out quite enough to tell what results the government has achieved. The proposal then clarifies the illegality of the regulations, and even the regulation on oil and the regulation on cigarettes, especially the regulation on the transport of cigarettes across the territory of the Republic of Serbia to Kosovo and Metohija, is mentioned. They say it is not in accordance with federal law, and the gentlemen who propose forget: at a time when the federal law was passed by Kosovo and Metohija was an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Yugoslavia, there was no United Nations administration on it. At UNMIK and the federal government's initiative, the government of the Republic of Serbia, in co-operation with the federal government and UNMIK, has adopted a regulation on the way cigarettes are transported across the territory of the Republic of Serbia so that these cigarettes appear legally in Kosovo, while not stopping by and staying on the market of the Republic of Serbia. It is precisely the data on the revenues received by the regulation and on the quantities of cigarettes that have been legally through Serbia's territory, (Mr. Nikolic, calm down a little if you know God) that data is saying enough that the extraordinary results of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been achieved in less than 6.5 months to suppress the illegal tobacco market. In the end, there was a speech behind the remarks, again, under the stereotype of the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not fight enough to contain all types of crime. Gentlemen, Serbia's government needs to be told that it really didn't do enough. But if the government had done enough to combat all types of crime inherited from the previous regime, then the opposition ranks in the Federal Assembly, and possibly even in this House, would have been significantly distributed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15663	It's clear that this exposure has caused a lot of replicas, so I'm going to read to you now who has the right to reply to this exhibit. There is a National MP, Slobodan Janjic, then a representative of the SPS parliamentary group and MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15664	Mr. Kovacevic, I think you'll be banned from coming to the O.R. after this. You were here a few months ago in public through the halls talking about how Mr. Djindjic robbed you by kidnapping you of 500,000 marks and a locale on a street, when you left the Democratic Party; that he recruited you with 500,000 marks. You're protecting him now. Maybe he gave you a million in the meantime. Mr. Kovacevic, you tricked everyone and everyone you could. You double-crossed tobacco manufacturers. You pay them at the prices agreed eight months ago, and in the last eight months, it's all gone 300%. You tricked the villagers in Vojvodina because you bought them grain, and then everything is more expensive, and what they're buying today, so with their income that they've achieved by selling to the state their products are now at a loss -- 300% is all more expensive than that moment. There's an imperfect dramatist here, he's not in the O.R. now, playing some shepherd, holding you all together. That's what sheepmen call us, because he's very special. Who did you recognize? Here, the gentleman says he recognized Chad, and I say Chad has his deputy and Chad isn't in the O.R. Who, gentlemen, cheats on disabled wars here when they protested on the streets? You said within 30 days you'd improve their material position. You don't mention them or receive them anymore. You are some new government, but that new government has been for a year and a half, and nothing is new after a year and a half. How many individual union presidents did you pay for those statements they made on behalf of the workers last night? How much did you pay? (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: What do you care, keep your mouth shut.) ) When it was a question of voting on the trust of the Martian, Mr Ceda was here, when we said that New Serbia would not vote, MEPs Velje Ilic, in front of 20 people, said: "Yes, he would not vote if Vela did not like jeeps either, he does not love just the baggers. "Did you give Veli the jeep? Whose money? From the people. The gentleman who sends us appointments for judges and judicial functions isn't in the O.R., 100,000 dinars as chairman of the board of directors of the public firm charges. Why would he need a 16,000-dollar MP's salary?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15665	Replication rights, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15666	My fellow MPs, apparently my colleague Kovacevic completely misunderstood what I was saying. The Committee of Auditors has not introduced any time limit related to the subject for which it is formed. Therefore, the survey board can establish absolutely everything, but all facts, not since 1990, but since 1945, if it cares to establish facts relating to the production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products in the Republic of Serbia, or anything related to tobacco smuggling. Secondly, there is probably no smart man in this Serbia who can think that after 11 months of forming a government, any of the Socialists are involved in this without criminal charges being filed. When you were able to file criminal charges for inciting and abuse of your official position, and that this crime that is most effective remains out of it! Thirdly, if any of the Socialists were involved or were involved in this, without the current authority publishing his name, the matter is simple: either the government is totally incompetent, or is in business with him, in business; and you see what suits you more. Fourth, is there anyone in this Serbia who doesn't care about the truth? It seems that the congregation’s majority does not care. Here, support the establishment of the board and determine what the committee wants. If he says he doesn't, then he doesn't, and if he says he does, then we'll see who it is who's involved in the production, traffic and smuggling of tobacco, and he'll be responsible. Show your example that you have nothing to do with it. If you don't, you plead guilty, and then find yourself where you are and what part of the chain you're in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15667	Right on the line, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15668	I don't know how to always bring Stanko Kovacevic to attack Serbian radicals, but at a time when I saw Stanko Kovacevic sitting at a press conference next to Vuksanovic, I asked Chad Jovanovic what would happen to Stanko and he said -- he made only one evening wrong, one phone call returned him to the right path. Here is now the ovation of the government of the Republic of Serbia by Mr Kovacevic. Mr Kovacevic, when the president of the Serbian Radical Party was called by The Hague tribunal, asked for a visa to go to The Hague, and America has been holding an antenna against Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, to co-operate with criminals before entering the government and since he was in the government. Why stop Zoran Djindjic from washing that scar off of himself? Why are you preventing the establishment of a survey committee to determine that Zoran Djindjic has nothing to do with this? Why should we continue to believe in the word of the media, Zoran Djindjic and those he calls on the phone, then praise the government afterwards? Why? What is this connection between the Prime Minister and Stanko Subotic Canet, the biggest tobacco smuggler? Why is he riding his private plane? The coffee that Cane Saturday makes him in the house is one part of the stolen money, from the money stolen from the people. It's completely clear and obvious. Why are you stopping? You can obstruct the work of the survey board. They're not investigative organs. You can refuse to give them information, papers, and they can't bring anyone in. Why do you constantly point to the sins of the previous government by justifying the sins of the new government, saying that 50% were once stolen, and now only 17%? I don't know how long it's been stolen or how much it's stolen now. They used to say nothing was stolen and now you're saying nothing was stolen. No member of the government has any record of what's being stolen. The mafia doesn't belong to a political party, the mafia is made up of individuals. If the DSS claims it doesn't know who's stealing in the Serbian government, if New Serbia claims it doesn't know who's stealing in the Serbian government, if DHSS claims it doesn't know who's stealing in the Serbian government, I believe them. There's a possibility that it's stolen without any minister knowing anything individually. They're gangs, but let the Assembly determine. Did we steal until you came to power? You have all your weapons in your hands. Your stories from the bench about us being thieves aren't worth anything. They're only giving us a cause for replication. You have power in your hands. You have three types of authority: legislative, judicial and executive. (President: Time. By law, some of our honest and fair deeds turned into crime 10 years later. Let it be for you. Executive power, judicial authority, law enforcement, everything is in your hands. Let them accuse us, that they judge us. Don't you, you're politicians. Don't take on a heavy burden of responsibility to call each of us a thief here without even knowing what you're talking about. Let what we've been doing investigate the authorities that the state has for it, and since these authorities won't interfere with the current cigarette smuggling, let the survey board form. It is a bit harshly appointed task of the polling committee, for God's sake, the survey board already knows there's a theft. But if there's no theft, the board of inquiry will find there's no theft. (President: Mr. Nikolic, fifth minute. It's a hook for me. Did I endanger your life by speaking for a minute longer, and you took away my right for 15 days to show up at the pay phone, Mrs. Micic, or do you mind what I say about the government... (Honey Angelkovic: You're boring. )......................................................................................................... Or maybe I'm boring you. But my job in this congregation is to bother you who are in power, to be boring to you, to be uncomfortable to you and not to love me. (President: I that you respect the Rules of Procedure. ) And to respect the Rules of Procedure, but I also warn you, Mrs Micic, that you respect both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When you can say that the total number of MPs in the Serbian Parliament is 248, I can speak at the pay phone for one minute longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15669	The word is Mr. Marko Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15670	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Serbia was mentioned here by the previous or speaker before him. I'm sorry, I wasn't in the O.R. to react immediately, although I can react now. It was about some kind of means of transportation owned by our president. As for this means of transport, which we had a regular press conference on two occasions, about a month and about a month and a half ago, it was officially proven who was its owner, how and how we rented it as a political party. Therefore, the insinuation that it is a means of transport or a gift of someone to vote for and for some lobbying here in the Assembly shows a way of thinking about who brought it here. The truths are this: the facility currently owned by New Serbia is owned by the Yugoslav Army and rented by us very regularly, the payment is monthly, and the object in which our president is driving must be such for the simple reason that his safety is threatened, precisely by those on which the survey committee will be formed here. So I'd like to ask the MPs, and now I'm speaking as head of Parliament, to a little... Madam Chairman, I would ask that some MPs who do not have the right to go out for a pay phone, do not get out of place, because for all I know, the Rules of Procedure are followed by a warning, and after the ban on going out for a pay phone, the next warning is a disfellowship. I urge the MPs present here to pay attention to the formation of this polling committee and to shorten this discussion, do this job as soon as possible and let the Assembly do its job, which we came here to do, and the committee of inquiry to do what it was formed for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15671	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15672	Dear Presidents, honourable Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is Parliament's agenda to set up a polling committee to look at the situation in the area of tobacco and tobacco products. The question here is why the polling committee is set up, and I ask if there is a cigarette smuggling in Serbia. Every day, on television and in the papers, we see - various helmets, trucks, etc. I don't think that's a discussion at all. So, there's a smuggling, and no one said who's smuggling cigarettes. Most likely there will be some names that do so in this country, there may be no one from the leadership or from the government, but those people who are on those lists, damages this country and damages this budget. If the committee had proposed any opposition parties, I might have understood. But if the proposal goes from party to government, i.e. from the DOS party, then I don't understand. A proposal by the DSS increases doubts among Serbian citizens that serious malfeasances are being created and that big money is in play. Since you're in power together, you know best who's doing what, whether there's a mob in tobacco smuggling and who's profiting. You know it best, and now's your chance to say it. I'm afraid that the initiative to set up a survey board is not some contract of yours in DOS, your division -- you're taking more money than cigarettes, you need a certain percentage to give to us, because we're in power together. That there is truth there is also a proposal for members for the committee of inquiry. The promoter asks the DSS to be chairman of the board, to give the DOS three more members, DS one member, NS one member and PDS one member. What it means is that out of the 10 MPs that make up the board, seven of them will be DOS. Why form a survey board when you know in advance what kind of report a committee like this can offer us. Isn't that what it means: "The grassy mountain was born a mouse"? Doesn't that mean that the board will be tasked with legalizing everything that happened last year with tobacco and cigarettes smuggling? If you want to tell the public the truth, then you need to put together a survey board to make it look different. We Socialists are for the establishment of a polling committee, but the president's seat is to take an MP from the opposition party. Whether it will be an MP from the SPS, the SRS or the SSJ, it doesn't matter. Secondly, all MP groups in parliament propose one member at a time. With this, as the proposer has drawn up a survey board, we will only distract the citizens of Serbia. We also believe that, if a survey committee is already set up, the committee's task is to expand by looking at the situation of building new cigarette factories across Serbia's cities; whether the right to build a cigarette factory has its own price and whether it has that manipulation. And finally, the board would be tasked with seeing the situation in the tobacco production area: if tobacco producers knew what to do with tobacco smuggling. When they have the smallest part, and if they work the most, that of what individuals do for themselves, they'd probably reduce their production. But I don't think this problem with tobacco production is going to be dealt with by the board at all. And in the end, you can agree to vote no cigarette smuggling, but you'll just put this off for a while. The truth about tobacco smuggling will be learned at some point. It will probably determine some other parliament, which will be in a different composition. Most likely, this issue will not resolve this parliament, but will derail it for the first item of the agenda of the next parliament elected by Serbian citizens. Why do you have a problem with control when you control everything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15673	The word has a People's MP Bozidar Vujic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the interesting things in this debate we're having today. If it's more interesting, it's even more indicative. The first thing is the regulation, and not only this transport regulation, but also all other regulations that DOS authorities have adopted over the past year. And in this year's time, you've brought in more regulations than the previous regime for the past three years. What you, while you were opposition-DOS, and you were opposition and you were being, told the people and used as the strongest argument to popularize that you came to power today, is to defile the people of the regulations, to make them unpopular. You did it and that whip, because there are two ends, now you're going to get hit in the next election. That's the first one. The second is that we were witnesses to what was in Serbia; we were listening to pots, pots, buckets, things not; we were listening to whistles and whistles. Now more than ever, Serbia sounds like pots falling inside DOS, which you're doing because you've torn up and broken pots. It's good to see it in Serbia, next election will come, now you're naked and that's good. What's good is that as a Serbian radical, I support the proposal to form a polling committee because with everything else it will prove and dissipate your DOS power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15675	The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by a folk MP named Nada Kolundžija. I remind you that there are two candidates registered from the SPS parliamentary group and that they have eight minutes left in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15676	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my presentation, I must say that I would be much more pleased and that many of the citizens I have contacted would be much happier to discuss some much more current problems in our society. This one, however, is not for underestimation either. I have to say that a large number of our peasants would be more curious if we were to discuss why there was no regressed oil for sowing this year, why not provide enough seed material for planting, but it's not for underestimating or the issue of tobacco smuggling, because we have to get rid of something that we've heard many times in the past. It was mentioned many times, and the previous government organised this, and Slobodan Milosevic organized it, and Marko Milosevic organised a cigarette smuggling, etc. All right, gentlemen, if you care so much about the truth, why are you now against the establishment of a polling committee that can confirm all this, verify or confirm some fact that may not be in your favor, which may reveal that all your claims about the previous period were false; that maybe it should or may reveal something that reduces your rating in the sense that you are connected to those who smuggle tobacco and who earn money on that smuggling and how much. That such a thing is necessary, I will illustrate it by example: a month ago at the Yugoslav-Bulgarian border, near the Gradin border crossing, a group of some 15 people engaged in organised tobacco smuggling was discovered. Gentlemen, that didn't happen a year ago, it happened a month ago. Do you think there's someone much stronger behind that, or do you think only people have organized themselves, self-initiatively? It is hard to live and that they must somehow provide means of survival in this difficult time, when over 300% of the standard has fallen under your authority, but I highly doubt that 15 people could have been organised in such a good way to smuggle so many cigarettes across the border. So why are you against this kind of thing being revealed? Also, I have to point out that we have heard many times that the reasons why we do not want to determine or form a committee like this are you, and you explain the proposal of one of the previous debaters, that Interpol makes a report and divides the government and the National Assembly, a report on who it is that smuggles and organizes tobacco smuggling. Okay, gentlemen, I've got a little bit of another thing going around, which is that in this way it is particularly becoming visible that the centre of government, the one that is now in power in the Republic of Serbia, is not within Serbia, that the centre of government is somewhere abroad and that this same centre dictates or should control all the roads and all the activities that this government needs to do. In this regard, this proposal was made for Interpol to make a report, as if we were not able and that we were not able to establish all relevant facts about this issue on our own by forming one survey board. And finally, I must note, it seems that the political goal of some of the opposition parties, and in particular the SRS, obviously moved, is not only to criticise the opposition but also to criticise the opposition. And because of the inability to say all the things I had to say to the end, I must appeal once again to all to deny the time for my presentations, which I would have to deny to my colleague, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15677	The word is a folk letter from Nada Kolundzija, and after it is the Messenger of the people Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15678	I would like to say at the very beginning that the Democratic Alternative, and I believe that all MPs of the DOS, will always advocate greater control of the government. This implies that we will always vote for the formation of survey committees, for all those areas where there is a problem, suspect that things are happening outside the law. What makes us a problem in this decision are the following facts: First of all, we are in favour of forming a survey board that will determine the truth about tobacco production and transport, and above all because we want to control those who are in power today. We care about knowing what they were doing before in the authorities that are now so keenly seeking to form this committee, whose mandate is limited to the current government. It is a basic and essential proposal for this proposal for a decision. Another principled question that we have to answer, and this is just a reason that we have a clear view of it in the future, so that we don't keep making a problem for ourselves at one precedent, and that's the question of whether this assembly will every time some domestic or foreign media announce an affair, jump and create a polling committee. Is that how the Assembly is supposed to work? Will the Assembly continue to employ a team of teams, some spin doctor, some counselors who will launch affairs in this congregation and we will deal with the facts or writings of the media, and we will not deal with what is the basic work of this congregation. This is the second key problem of this proposal. The third key problem of this proposal is that it does not clearly show, in fact, insinuate that the government is responsible for trying to solve the problems that exist in tobacco production and transport. So, is this a problem, whether the government's responsibility is sought because it tried to resolve it by means of a regulation, because this proposal indicates the possibility that this is the topic that we need to discuss. At the same time, this proposal insinuates that the government is responsible and involved in tobacco smuggling. If the government has adopted a regulation to establish order, does this automatically mean that the government is responsible? These insinuations stem from the finding of accountability for budget damage, etc. It is the insinuation that the government is responsible and it is predetermined. What we must fully agree on in principle, whether we form survey committees in advance, or whether it is our obligation to say: we are establishing a committee of inquiry because there are problems in some areas of society and then this committee of inquiry should investigate what problems it is. The third insinuation, which comes from this attitude, is that it is actually suspected that the government, because it was collecting money, was taking that money. And so much money goes through the hands of the government, I don't know why it's more suspicious about tobacco and tobacco trade now than about collecting taxes and collecting other money that the government has. So that's a little bit of a problem, too. What also raises us in doubt as to the proposal's intention is the fact that the motion is seeking to examine the constitutionality and legality of one regulation, signed by one Deputy Prime Minister, and does not require a review of the constitutionality and legality of another regulation signed by the second Deputy Prime Minister, who is also a member of the DSS, as a proponent of this act. Indeed, the question arises: was the intention of us, indeed, as the National Assembly, to establish control over a single area that, without any doubt, is criminalized and should establish legal control over it or we are in favour of forming a committee of inquiry. These reasons I spoke of make this decision difficult for adoption. I propose that all MPs who are in favour of forming a polling committee sign a request to put the establishment of a polling committee on the agenda, with an explanation that will not have such serious shortcomings that we cannot all vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15679	Thank you. The word has been made by a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15680	Probably in the last report, due to time and obligation, I'll try to sum up the debates so far. Maybe I'm not gonna make it as a proposing representative to answer that question. I could, I think, at this very moment conclude the debate so far, try to answer some of the questions that are open here. What seems to me to be indisputable in all the previous exhibitions is that the fact that there is an organised crime has been found; therefore, it was not disputed; that there is an organised smuggling of cigarettes; that the volume of smuggling has been reduced compared to the previous period, or if you want the new government to be reduced in the period since the election of the new government compared to the previous period. It is also undeniable that against the organisers of cigarette smuggling during the previous period have not been filed by the MUP for criminal charges. So, no smoke-smuggling organiser was identified during that period without speaking in this one. It is also indisputable that the government of the Republic of Serbia has passed the regulations, and this raises the question of who signed them. They were signed by whoever was obliged to sign them, whether he decided one way or the other. As the president of the assembly is obliged to sign every law, regardless of what he voted against it. Therefore, it is not disputed that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has passed regulations allowing, in addition, imports of cigarettes without excise stamps and without paying federal customs duties, customs duties on goods imported into the SRJ and on Kosovo and Metohija territory. There is also a response to attempts to seek formal reasons to challenge the proposed act. When the proposal says it is necessary that the survey board determines how much the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia's budgets are damaged by the existence of illegal trade, i.e. by the act or inaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that this is based on something which is indisputable, that regulations allow the federal customs office not to be paid. That's a fact. That's what regulations do. As it is true that these regulations were adopted by the Government. I agree that this formulation is clumsyly written and that it allows manipulation. To allow those who seek formal reasons to refuse the proposal to bind themselves to these clumsy formulations. The fact is that the federal budget is damaged, the fact that it exists, that's where we agreed, it's an uncontestable fact, a huge percentage, 17 per cent, and 30 per cent of the other data, the traffic of smuggled cigarettes. That it's from illegal sources. The fact is that when you have 150m marks of value imported by smuggling on the market, it is a damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that it is, of course, the one who is obliged to prevent the smuggling. It's such an indisputable fact that every other story, as the people simply say, cannot drink water. Except to appease the conscience of one who would try not to accept a proposal to form a survey board prevents the determination of the truth about the situation in this area. It's essentially only in the jurisdiction of this committee of inquiry. He can answer anything else: we couldn't get to the facts, we couldn't determine the facts, and that's just how it was finally established. As far as further indisputable matters are concerned, it is indisputable, therefore, that is all said, the need and justification of forming a committee of inquiry. The text of the proposal shall contain appropriate or inadequate formulations, to which this is explained. The challenge is yes, the well-meaning of the Proposer is disputed: the proposal is good, but the proposing's intentions are suspicious. The intention, highlighted here by those who challenged it, is to attack the government of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen, this proposal, this story was opened about seven months ago by the DSS. An act was filed here two and a half months ago, put on the agenda by voting on all DOS MPs and DSS MPs. At that time, no one in that group, who now formally contests the validity of this proposal, has thought of a single argument, to say - let's not put it on the agenda or let's take it off the agenda, as far as possible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Suddenly, arguments against the polling board appear yesterday, for the first time and suddenly yesterday, on a topic that has nothing to do with the current political crisis in Serbia, it is noted that the polling committee should not be formed. The facts are cited, and they are facts, that the previous government - because organised crime, without co-operation with the current government - was certainly involved in cigarette smuggling, and that now smuggling is reduced, so I guess the link between today's government and organised cigarette smuggling is smaller. But what is this argument, so that the National Assembly takes the view that there is no need to lead the debate and that the committee of inquiry should not insist on establishing that relationship if there is one; and those who have spoken in this way have actually confirmed that it exists, unlike the proposings, which requires to determine whether or not there is a situation in that area. I am particularly puzzled by that challenge by DOS representatives, who highlight the group's view that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should, according to the means of information and the media, refer to that people's "dog barking, wind carrying". It's really something I can't just explain to myself. Who can explain this to himself, on several occasions it has been said, that the writing of the press should be ignored; that what the press writes is not important; that in such and such ordered articles, I don't know from whom; that it doesn't matter what the foreign press writes; that in no way can the reputation of the state be scolded. Gentlemen, if that's the relationship of this group to the means of information and to the media, then it's really something that's a big news to me. The proposal does not limit the period to which the work of the anaquet committee will apply. It is only established here to pay particular attention to the regulations and to the consequences of those Regulations, but no definitive position is given. The DSS position is famous, but it's not moderate. The task of the survey board is to determine what the facts are and what the truth is. The second question is what is our position. With that attitude, our representatives will join the polling committee if the National Assembly accepts its formation and works on the survey board. But the committee of inquiry is obliged to determine the truth. If the truth is contrary to the DSS opinion, then it will be no different, but that is exactly what the polling committee's task is. So, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, it seems to me, are the facts on which today the National Assembly will decide on a proposal to form a committee of inquiry. The rejection of the proposal, according to these facts, can mean, in my opinion, only fear of the success of the polling committee, because I don't see why anyone would find in advance that the formation of a polling committee is directed against the government. I don't understand that position, unless something more than I do knows the one who utters this attitude and which makes it an argument that the committee is not forming, or that the proposal is to form a committee of inquiry against the government. It's not a prejudge by the promoter, it's a prejudge by those who think by refusing to establish the truth protect the government. Think about what this is about. And also, there's another big question here, and that's what I'm going to end up with, these are attitudes that, in advance, demeaning the Assembly, further destroying this institution, claim that the polling board can't do anything. It is a stance that MPs, regardless of party membership, should not say from this pay phone, besides the fact that the current events and the National Assembly have made it clear that Serbia and Yugoslavia will not be able to enter the European Union unless they respect the rules of parliamentaryism. It got up to date yesterday, go through some websites, and you'll see how things are. Then there was a lack of preparedness, therefore, worried that the government and state authorities would not co-operate with the survey board and that it would not be able to obtain official data. That attitude really confuses me again. And finally, if the National Assembly accepts the proposal, the DOS parliamentary group has not given its candidates, I will be, as a proposaler, free to propose myself; if the parliamentary group points out its candidates, then they will, of course, be respected and replace these names which I, I must admit, are completely arbitrary here - so far are the names of the members of the polling committee, the following: the president of the polling committee, Dušan Budishin; for the DOS MPs, Goran Vesic, adviser to the federal interior minister, a man who can competently engage in the work of this polling board; Leila Ruždić - Trifunović, a lawyer, who also... Why are you laughing, Mr. Vesic? It's my own, indeed, arbitrary proposal, but you will give your candidates. I'm writing these names down finally because the proposal without a name wouldn't be flawed, and we wouldn't point that out again here as a possible objection. At last, Neda Arneric; from the MP group DOS - DSS, Dragan Šormaz; from the SPS parliamentary group, as proposed by them, Dragan Tomic, from the SRS parliamentary group, as proposed by them, Natasa Jovanovic; from the SSJ parliamentary group, Petar Petrovic, on their proposal of course; from the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group, according to their proposal, Miroslav Markicevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15681	He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15682	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that it is 14:00 hours, but given Mr. Marsican's findings that he will not be able to participate in the debate during the afternoon, I would ask for three minutes of attention, so that you can participate in the afternoon's work with more arguments and facts. Mr. Marsicanin, not only is your choice arbitrary, your choice of representatives of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, but that's your initiative. As for the arguments with which you went to the National Assembly, you deceived the MPs and the public because you said that the Ministry of Finance did not respond to your official request; you never sent this official request to the Ministry of Finance. You also noted that the MUP did not respond to your official request for the effects of fighting organised crime in tobacco smuggling; you also did not make an official request to the MUP either. Well, since there are already traditional divisions in your political performance, I ask you to deny me, you were the president of the Assembly, so explain when the President of the Assembly sent it to the Government and the Resoring Ministry some initiative, that is, when any congregation working body in that way tried to get some information. As for the dilemmas that followed your performance, as regards the August 6, 2001 regulation, which was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", you did not offer us an explanation of the questions I asked yesterday, so I will do so, so that your initiative will not be terminated on an arbitrary basis. The federal and republican governments participated in the draft regulation you criticise. The regulation stemmed from a joint session of the Federal and Republic Government since 23 May 2001 on concrete measures to achieve the role of the state authorities of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. It is not your finding that the application of this regulation has damaged the federal budget, because, according to UN Resolution 1244, Regulation 1999/1 in Article 1 requires that all the legislative and executive powers in Kosovo have UNMIK, including the regulation of the tax system, which, whether we want to admit it or not, was the decision of Mr Kushner, the then administrator in Kosovo and Metohija. This regulation, which was applied on 6 August, provided clear financial resources and very detailed information to you as the speaker of the Assembly, the competent assembly board and the government themselves in September 2001, at exactly the same time that you submitted an initiative to form this polling committee. (President: Time. ) At this point in our society, the survey committee, in addition to what you are proposing, is actually trying to find an answer to a very tragic topic. The poll committee was initiated by representatives of an opposition party in the federal assembly, asking for answers to the question of who killed Mr Bulatovic, his timely defence minister. The results of the survey committee's work are indeed discouraging. If you want to contribute to the fight against organised crime in this society, then do so on the basis of facts. Don't send us letters missing a name and a last name. You're a representative of a party that behaves so politically. Be as correct as the representatives of the opposition, and tell us in the face what they say, say, radicals and socialists. Put your finger on us. It's much more correct than pushing this kind of political pamphlet, disabling not DOS, but this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15683	Mr. Jovanovic, I warn you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15684	If we need to discuss writing "National", tomorrow we will discuss another topic that in itself is not an expression of political seriousness, but of political unculture. I apologize for this overrun of minutes and forty. I was entitled to another announcement, but I tried to shorten my debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15685	First Mr. Goran Vesic. But you caused the replica. Goran Vesic asked for your presentation, and then you asked for Cedomir Jovanovic's exposure. I see they're all up and I'm setting a break by 3:15. [[After break - 15.55.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I'm realizing we have a quorum and we can continue to consider the 12th point of the agenda. Right on the line, Mr. Goran Vesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15687	I had to cross myself, among other things, when Mr. Martian declared the composition of the board. It's really strange that someone who convinces us all day how serious this thing is in such a way chooses the people of the board. I think it would be very good if he at least tried to talk to the people he suggested, not standing in the hallway, next to the bar, that's how he chooses people. I have to thank Mr. Marsican in this way, because he didn't ask me; if he had asked me to do it personally, and there would be no need for such controversy. Unfortunately, I cannot participate in the work of a committee that has only one task, which is to prove that during Milosevic, everything was fine and that nothing is wrong today. I really cannot participate in the work of a committee that has only one task, which is to condemn someone in advance, and in the end such composition is proposed, whose name and whose regulations are mentioned in the conclusions. As for Mr. Marsican, this time I publicly give him consent, since I see that he has been given a new assignment, is no longer the president of the Assembly, but is now assembling committees: when he is building a survey committee on what he did, Rade Markovic, who is otherwise sitting in prison because he has organised murders with some high-ranking officials from his party, I will be very happy to participate, given that my ministry's headquarters in the Federation Palace, where this is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15688	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15689	Respected colleagues, it is not the first time that someone from the ruling majority is accused, or in advance sentences to SPS members for what the court should determine. It shows how DOS understands the rule of law. This shows how DOS treats the judiciary. That shows how DOS treats people. Say "not correct" are small words. It's a shame for the state to tell someone that he committed murder without being told by those authorities in this country who should say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15690	Right on line, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15691	President Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have used my right to a replica since I represent the MP group of DOS. I think we have not only a very important agenda point coming to an end, but also the end of this session and the debate on the budget. We have some time limits, and I'd like to ask you to get back to it. As far as our relationship with the judiciary is concerned, I hope that as politicians we have given our final answer by adopting the law on justice, which depolitises this segment of our lives and let it remain that way. Let future courts do their job. We have political views and the right to express these political views. Please return to the debate on this agenda and, accordingly, speed up our work and try to hold another session by 31 December, at which we would discuss the budget, also a very important issue. If you can accept that, it would be my pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15692	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15693	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of a mid-day debate, on the basis of all that the opposition MPs have drawn up, and in particular the MPs, it is certain that this parliament should adopt an investigative committee that should examine suspicions of organised crime in the area of tobacco production and transport. I don't know why DOS representatives mind when, on the basis of all the discussions, it limits the time period when the committee of inquiry needs to reconsider this suspicion of illegal tobacco trade. So, I'm sure they mind, because through this review, they'll find that there was no illegal tobacco trade, or complete illegal trade, especially while the previous government was active, even though they're all trying to degrade the previous government by all means, to say that it has been illegally working and leading organised crime, especially with regard to the production and traffic of tobacco. When it comes to illegal trade, dear gentlemen, I can tell you that there is not only tobacco trade in Cosmet, but as we know from various channels, illegal trade and other products, especially alcohol, oil and everything else that is of priority for life, especially for the people of Kosovo and Metohija. That is why it is of interest to all of us to prevent this illegal trade, especially after the signing of the SRJ and UNMIK regulation, that the goods that are being separated from central Serbia towards Kosovo and Metohija pay 5% for the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija. At this point, however, I do not see that the percentage of the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija has benefited. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, given that I have a little time, we've received a supplement of some committee members today. However, since the start of the constitution of this assembly and to this day, we are urging us, representatives of the SPS and MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, to form a committee on Kosovo and Metohija. It bothers some, as it bothers this survey board, so they cannot put the formation of that committee, which, I'm sure, on many of the things that are happening in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, in order to help beyond what we discussed today, could have and provide certain information. I hope that the current president, Mrs Natasa Micic, will bear in mind more than the previous president and that this committee on Kosovo and Metohija will finally form.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15694	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this minute can only be a song: "In Parliament at the end of the day, the letter party accuses yellow, besides the smuggling of tobacco and illegal tobacco roads; the Martian has begun the charm, with dignity of holding the turquoise, that cigarettes have no stamp and therefore it is about smuggling, so ask loudly, the polling board to resolve things and to make it clear to the people whether or not it is being smuggled; the Chad dissuads the cheeks of pure - the smuggling of tobacco is an unsaved joke, and in that sense, the writings of the two sides of the list are still yellow from the "Nacional"; I have conducted an investigation of petty, to establish the truth of the right, for matter is quite important and to the next one came to the attitude; no one here wanted to steal, the two sides of the list not to pay, but the intention of the Government, that Cosmet returned to Serbia; and not to do so much of the cancer; and not all the cancers, but the cancers of the cancers, the other. The contribution of this tobacco affair is also seen in the development of folk poetry on the ground, so they sing in Chačka - my pipe with silver chained, will the Vela factory of tobacco. In Novi Sad they sing -- the budget in Vojvodina is thin, so the factory wants Nenad Canak. In the Raška area they sing - we are not exactly the last village, now the factory is looking for the Raška area. Those around Kragujevac say -- we would like the smoke to be blown, in the middle of a beautiful Serbian forest. And I say, "If anyone meets all the requirements, the earth will smoke like Etna.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15696	The word has a folk MP Branko Pavlovic, absent, he wrote for two minutes, the next MP is Srboljub Zivanovic, and after that, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15697	Ladies and gentlemen, I've told the truth many times about the criminal actions of individuals at the top of the government -- as a result, I've received warnings. Today, these areas are ruled by organized mob clans and individuals who have legalized their dirty jobs and become newly-roasted businessmen. Such dirty work at the premises of Kosovo and Metohija deals with UNMIK and KFOR headed by Hans Hekerup; at the premises of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is carried out under the auspices of the peacemakers; it is carried out under the auspices of Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro. And in Serbia, gentlemen, it's under Mr. Zoran Djindjic's protection. Planning to quickly become the master of Serbia and create the strongest mafia in Europe, with the position of Serbian Prime Minister Mr. Djindjic taking over the main affairs, from the work of the mafia, with oil, cigarettes and narcotics. In his exposé, Mr Djindjic always said that the government's work, or individual ministers, would be transparent...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15698	Mr. Zivanovic, please return to the agenda topic and get...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15699	The tobacco affair launched over the pages of the Zagreb-based list "Nacional" well shook Mr. Djindjic. Expecting this attack, Djindjic has been hasty to remove Deputy Prime Minister Vuk Obradovic, who led the Commission to fight organised crime. The affair that Obradovic planted was ground floor, but the prime minister did not celebrate either. It should be noted, where the mob business is cloudy, there's godmotherhood. Our best man for the cigarette business in just the first four months of government...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15700	The word has been given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, followed by Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15701	Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative on the establishment of a polling committee is not controversial and Serbian radicals will vote for it. It should not be controversial for the DOS parliamentary group either. In fact, if this committee finds that the government is not involved in these criminal acts, the government will only come out stronger out of all this, it will receive support and trust from citizens. If it finds otherwise, the government will resign as an honorary one and walk away from political life. However, it is not the essence of the polling committee itself, the essence of this matter is the conflict between the two political groups within the same set, within the DOS, between DS and DSS. Namely, the Democratic Party of Serbia, which supported the government by yesterday, is now trying to play a role at once, while at the same time being the government. That is the essence of all these disputes: the DSS is trying to deceive the Serbian public. The DSS has insisted all this time on supporting the government that ruled the regulations, the DSS supported a government that failed in a year to establish a Constitutional Court of Serbia that would assess all these regulations, have over 100 of them, and most of these regulations are unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15702	After the folk letter, Natasa Jovanovic has the word of a national envoy, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15703	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it would be best for the parliamentary group of the majority, for the DOS, to accept the formation of the polling committee, which would have been asked in the proposal, not because it disagrees with one of the formulations, but because the committee actually confirms whether the exact allegations that the president of the Republic government, Zoran Djindjic, had repeatedly said in the press, that it was some conspiracy theory, that it was a conspiracy of some tobacco lobby he had never heard of, and that his associates, as he said, were pure as tears. Then, in that sense, the board could determine exactly where the Republic of Serbia's Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's relationship with the largest tobacco mobster, Stanko Sutotic-Cannet, was written about by foreign presses. But you must be aware that it is only one of the reasons that are listed, so you should do so first of all, if you are already fully certain that neither the prime minister nor his associates have anything to do with it, because this affair has been shaking the entire Serbian public for a long time. And then let's put all the cards on the table and see who's to blame and who's not and what's actually going on around it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15704	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, followed by the people's emissary Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no problem in organising this polling committee and determining to determine certain facts proposed in the DSS proposal. Why? The provisions of Article 10 shall apply. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that the public work of state authorities has been provided. Article 73. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia determines that the Serbian Parliament, as parliament, exercise control and control over the work of state authorities. Third, Article 93. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled for the government and state officials to meet parliament for their work. Therefore, there are no problems, no distractions. On the other hand, the question would be asked now, could a survey committee be formed to determine whether the DSS is an opposition or a government; and they write about it in the paper, you know. But that's what some MPs here have just said. Therefore, there is no obstacle here, it is here that Parliament's right and duty to establish complete control over the executives and the government; and it should live in the Republic of Serbia. That there are justifiable reasons for forming a survey board, says the fact in addition to today's release by Blic that cigarettes and alcohol were taken yesterday in one action at the crossing of Kelebija, worth 650,000 German marks. So there are illegal flows. It is necessary to determine what channels they are going through, what damage the state has suffered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15706	The word has the People's MP Stevan Kesejic, he is absent. Then, MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and after that, MP Lazar Marjanski. The remaining time is nine minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the formation of a survey board for traffic insight is only one political farce. When I say political farce, I will only quote to you the regulations that the Serbian government has brought. Article 5 states that the goods of foreign origin, which have not been taxed, have been taxed, accounted for and charged for a specific tax burden. Furthermore, the tax referred to in Article 1 shall be charged and paid at a rate of 5% on the basis of which it constitutes the value of the goods established by customs regulations. Extraordinaryly, I am undermining, in addition to Article 2 of this article for sending oil derivatives, cigarettes are also paid a tax of 168,000 dinars. I ask you to stop me this time, because I have quoted the Government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation, and now I would like to explain this. If the fact is, everyone knows that one tow truck drives 450,000 packs of cigarettes. If it's, let's assume it's in that boot (it's not over, because I've been quoting the law for a minute) 100 dinars, then it turns out that the boot value is 4.5 million dinars. If the purchase costs are 50%, there are 2,250 million dinars left, amounting to around 750,000 marks. And that's one very exceptional number and you don't need any survey board. Evidence that the Serbian government is in serious crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15708	The People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15709	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you a few questions. The current position, which was the opposition, says the previous government had smuggled tobacco, narcotics, etc. The current opposition, the SPS, says the same thing. There are all kinds of questions being asked. In a duel for Montenegro's president, Djukanovic and Bulatovic accuse each other of being tobacco smugglers and smuggling in Serbia. "Nacional" from Zagreb writes that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, along with Montenegrins, is smuggling tobacco. I suggest we set up a polling committee, once on who smuggled and who didn't. It's safe, and there are other hard words here, that there are murderers, that there's all this in DOS and it's high-ranking. All of this needs to be examined and the conclusion is -- new elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15710	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15711	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the initiative that came from the DSS doesn't need to surprise anyone. It has been present earlier, but it surprises us, Serbian radicals, as the current coalition partners clashed in the morning. You forget, gentlemen, you have a common name, a common denominator, and his name is Dr. Vojislav Kostunica. No matter how you guys split up here, if there's a cartoon after DOS, then Dr. Vojislav Kostunica or DSS, then the same name stands. You've got a lot in common, and you've shown it in this debate. You participated in all decisions together and even counter-constitutional regulations, with the DSS only in September realizing that it was anti-constitutional. They thought of it as a village bride. Now you want to show the people how innocent you are in all this. You're not, gentlemen. The Committee of Auditors will determine how much anyone is involved based on your claims in criminal activities. Crime, financially, should be questioned this time by the Assembly as a legislative body. It would be logical for someone to be in front of the opposition party at the head of a committee like this. You won't compromise here either. It is a little strange that this initiative as a proposal brings before the Assembly yesterday's speaker. It all shines from the marks(s) of shortness. Imagine a man, imagine what cynicism is, he adopted this Rules of Procedure because of his personal vanity. He's the one who showed that he has nothing to do with Marks, especially him personally. Now he wants us, most of us in this congregation, to gain some of his personal interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15712	The People's MP Vitomir Plužarevic has the word, and after that, the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, and the remaining four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15713	This item of the agenda should long have been set as a point from which the people will draw conclusions on who DOS is, who is ruling Serbia today, and what is tobacco and other mafias. The legality of today's DOS is regulations, i.e. the government mostly rules; they are valves and the way in which individual members of the Government are enormously rich. All members. These regulations are only a farce, through which illegal trade is carried out. A polling committee has already been formed in Montenegro and there is already a political and economic war in the tobacco sector. I don't want to talk about the details, because it's already been said a lot. In Serbia, there are about 500 ino-cigarettes circulating and operating on the roads. The smuggling of tobacco in our area is so great that an ordinary man can't even imagine. It's a order of 150 million marks. The government's reactions at this point were gone. How can it be when Mr. Djindjic has to correct himself, i.e. to give up many privileges from this branch? This survey board can't do anything, nor will it be able to do anything except to find out. It is known who will judge and what decisions will be made by the one who should do so. The DOS majority, even today, if it was all over, wouldn't accept it if it were true. At previous meetings of the Assembly, someone said the symbol in Serbia is a hekler.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15714	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Time remaining - three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15715	The fact is that illegal flows and illegal trafficking of tobacco and tobacco products exist on the Serbian market. The fact is, the DSS is well aware of that, because she's worked with the rest of the DOS recently. Together they stormed the Assembly, burned TV together, made crisis headquarters, and formed both governments together. As far as the SRS is concerned, we have long claimed that there are criminal lobbies in the government or close to the government, which control tobacco and other excise products. We hope that the survey board will reach Mihajlovic, the police minister, Zoran Zivkovic, the Federal Police Minister and Mr. Begovic, director of the Federal Customs Administration. In any case, we are fully convinced that all roads lead to Zoran Djindjic, the Prime Minister and the people who are very close to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15716	The word has been made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15717	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, due to organised crime, or the smuggling of cigarettes, where excise stamps are not primarily paid, where the state loses around 20% of taxes, where there is no established way of paying, must surely require the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's survey board. If we know that 500 cigarettes are illegally entering Serbia, if we know that the DOS regime does not give us the Constitutional Court, the only committee of inquiry can answer the question - who is taking 500,000 German marks on the boot of illegal imported cigarettes. In the past few months, there has been a small war between tobacco companies for the Serbian market; the American Tobacco race for Kragujevac, Rovinj Tobacco Factory for Novi Sad, European Tobacco, the Greek-Cyprus firm, Cačak and Bulgarian Paracin companies. Only a country can lay down rules of production, purchase, processing, traffic, as well as the distribution of cigarettes. This should be produced by companies that have the right equipment, a quality control laboratory, because citizens' health is the primary task of the state. For the sake of citizens' health and the increased inflow of funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget, the Serbian Radicals will vote in favour of forming a committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15718	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15719	The formation of a National Assembly polling committee should allow to determine whether someone in power is involved in cigarette smuggling. The involvement of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, his close ties with Stanko Sutotic -- Canet, who is known as the head of the tobacco mafia, is mentioned. We, the Serbian radicals, are in favour of forming a polling committee, in such a way that the parliamentary groups are represented evenly, not proportionately. Let the survey board determine what is true, and what is a lie in everything that is happening, which moves goods from Montenegro's territory, through Kosovo and Metohija further into Serbia. The responsibility for violations of the law and organised crime must be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15720	The floor was addressed by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a representative of the parliamentary group, under the authority of the president of the parliamentary group (second call).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia is constantly complaining that there is not enough money in the budget, there is no education workers. Educational workers demand a 50% salary increase; they say -- they can only be 9%; they have no money to support the birth of children in Serbia, abolished mothers' right to a two-year maternity leave for a third child. The minister told me the day before yesterday - there's no state money for it. Here's a way for the state to get the money, all it has to do is put cigarette trade and oil trade into legal flows. Given the adoption of these controversial regulations, which have been discussed today, the government of Prime Minister Djindjic Kosovo and Metohija appeared to have seen outside the SRJ in March and August. Because the traffic of cigarettes heading towards Kosovo and Metohija, which passes through this second part of Serbia, is treated as a transit trade and the state is left without much income, i.e. all around 168,000 dinars per transport and about 5% of turnover tax. As far as it's supposed to be: I think the excise duty is about 11%, the sales tax is 20% and the customs office is 11%. Well, let each citizen calculate for himself how much money the state has cut off. The DOS reportedly wants to clear Serbia and Zoran Djindjic's government, and the Democratic Party of Serbia again argues that both ministers participated in the adoption of these regulations. To us, truth be told, no matter who was sitting in that government, who was deciding the regulations. The regulations have been adopted and have produced certain consequences. While DOS was in opposition, he claimed that there was organised smuggling, crime in Serbia; and we, Serbian radicals, claimed that there was organised smuggling and crime, and we asked for, at a time when we were still in the government, resignation, or a vote of mistrust, Interior Minister Vlajko Stojljkovic, except that he was smart enough, so he resigned in time, and here, apparently, regardless of what the whole of Serbia knows is involved in cigarette smuggling, no one thinks of resigning. We Serbian radicals support the formation of a polling committee, regardless of what these tasks could have been a little bit different, the essence would not have changed significantly, as the basic question arises -- where this link and where the press came from, and in other means of information, both abroad and among the ordinary world, the story of Stanko Subotic's relationship with Canet, which applies to the largest mobster and cigarette merchant on the Balkan Peninsula, and Zoran Djindjic, as Prime Minister. Shouldn't DOS be in the interest of forming a committee like this and determining whether the state summit -- whether it's on a federal level, whether it's on a republican level, in any body or organisation -- has anything to do with a mob dealing with cigarette smuggling; and that the mafia exists -- there is. I'm just afraid that in the end, there won't be as much trade for as long as it can by law by market inspection, because they sell cigarettes without excise stamps, and that the main mobsters, as usual, remain unpunished. It has been said here on several occasions that the rejection of the polling committee is justified by not looking at the situation in the area of tobacco production and transport and in some earlier period. This, first of all, does not stand in reason, but let's say that, by any chance, you don't want to investigate any irregularities, which is happening today while you're in power, why are you on the agenda of this assembly, and the SRS also asked for an emergency procedure, did not find our request for the establishment of a survey board, which will determine the circumstances and facts related to the role of state institutions and individual politicians in the destruction of the Jugoscan company, which, by chance, is not involved and involved in the destruction of the Jugoscan firm. The tobacco affair is clearly staring at Djindjic's chair, but this "Yugoscanics" affair is still shaking all over Serbia and shaking all those citizens who remain damaged for their savings. And let us remind ourselves, until this regulation was passed, until customs checkpoints were established in Raška, Rudnica and Ribarići, near Ribarić in Brnjak, all goods went through the Rožaj-Kula crossing from Montenegro. There's UNMIK for one tank of gasoline, for example. prescribed a fee of 13,800 dinars. Djindjic has it, they say, 7,000 marks, but it is not a fixed price. So a deal is possible, and what's that? It's a racket. On a daily basis, dozens of drop-offs pass at those crossing points, and what is the amount for which the state is damaged, each one can calculate. If we know Milo Djukanovic spent about a million-and-a-half marks on his own personal security detail and all that he's got, starting with a car, going to the rooms he's staying in, I wonder - how much of that state money did Zoran Djindjic spend on his security? Some here incorrectly interpreted the need to set up a survey board. The Board of Auditors shall be formed when the competent authorities do not want or are unable to examine certain circumstances. Then the National Assembly takes it upon itself and explores it through its survey board. That's the aim of the committee of inquiry. For all those who said there was no need to set up a survey board; there may not be a need for today's government to investigate the current situation in tobacco transport; they would like to examine what happened before they came to power, and they have the right; but they can do so through state authorities, because all the documentation is available to them, because everything in their hands, they do not have to form a survey board. However, when they do not want the truth about themselves, when they block the competent state authorities to investigate and investigate, then the National Assembly, part of the MPs, insists on forming a survey board. In this case, it was the DSS. We've been looking for the establishment of a survey committee on the "Yugoscanics" affair. The National Assembly should be interested, that is, as representatives of the people, to come to the truth and to present that truth to the public. The first task of the survey committee was to look at the situation in the area of tobacco and tobacco production and transport. Here, this is the cheapest cigarette that can be bought on our market, it's "Fast", a tobacco-based Nish cigarette. It only costs 25.00 dinars. You probably noticed in the roughest times, when sports games are, how long commercials are for these cigarettes, despite the fact that it's illegal. I'm just asking, do you know how much it costs a second of advertising on state or any other television? Who's interested in advertising this cigarette, who's behind it? And this committee of inquiry might be able to examine it. I'm sure there'll be one of the politicians behind it all. The Serbian Radical Party supports the formation of this and each other's committee, which aims to reach the truth and inform the public of the truth from any area of social life.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15722	The word came from Mr Dragan Markovic, the second report, in front of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15723	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I won't speak for long because I spoke a little longer this morning and I mentioned why the polling committee should be formed in the previous period and for farmers, for Serbs from Cosmeta, etc. The Serbian Unity Party will support the committee. As a candidate, we proposed Mr. Peter Petrovic. We do not agree that Mr. Goran Vesic is one of the board members, not because it may be unfair, but I am afraid that Mr. Goran Vesic will not convince the chairman of the DSS board and the other members to make the record in advance as well. Because that's how he convinced you -- you said you wouldn't vote for the Labour Act if an amendment to Article 105 was not accepted, which says, "Article 105 is deleted. "Article 105 remained and you voted in favour of the Labour Act. That's why I'm afraid Mr. Vesic is on the board, because he has a big impact on the DSS. The Serbian Unity Party also complains, we don't know how many people have nothing to live on. Since this new regulation has been passed, over 5,000 workers in Serbia have not worked, I don't know what the number is, but I think 50,000 of those who sold cigarettes on the cardboard box to support their family. The signator of that regulation was Mr. Pradic of the DSS. Gentlemen, don't wash your hands and say others are guilty. Since Mr. Martian isn't here, I'm asking Mr. Michael to tell me, since we have a member on the board, what are the material evidence, how many invoices, invoices, severance and orderbooks you have in your purse, and I'd like you to say tonight, as well as what number -- how many tobacco trucks and how many tons of tobacco. I'd like to ask you to make that public right now, so that it doesn't happen... I don't see why you're hiding it. What is the first company to go to, on which they will make a record and determine whether there is a crime or not? Come out and say it. What's the amount, how many tons and what number is it? Whether members of the survey board will have the security to go into non-enterprises and ask for documentation from company owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15724	Right on the line, Mr. Vesic. Here you go, Mr. Vesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15725	There's no need to worry, since I'm not a member. Since I'm working with Mr. Budishin on the board, he's really a man who respects his arguments. He's a man you can talk to, which you wouldn't say about, so it's a good thing I'm not on the board of inquiry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15726	Is anyone else answering for a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is Mr Marko Petrovic, in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15727	Dear MPs, respected counterparts, New Serbia, as a political party that advocates democracy in our society, and that it agrees with the need to form a polling committee in the assembly. As you can see, Mr. Marsican is here, and he presented it in the afternoon, Mr. Miroslav Markicevic proposed to be a member of the polling committee in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group. So polling committees should be formed, especially when it comes to this problem written and printed, which the whole parliament is talking about today, and is already somehow prejudged as guilty, before the guilt. It's not supposed to be done here. That should be done by the board of inquiry, so that he serves his opinion here, and then, through a discussion of the position of the committee, we give a definitive position. I'd like to ask the promoters, gentlemen of the DSS, whom I greatly appreciate, why is he not respected until the end of the contract where we have 10 members of the committee of inquiry. Nine members of the survey committee, including one of our members, were proposed, but 10 members were proposed in the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board. The tenth member is ahead of the Democratic Serbia Movement. It is true that the ambassador groups are now missing, but it is also true that when this proposal was submitted to the assembly procedure, the parliamentary group existed. It is true that when the proposal was submitted to the assembly procedure, there were other parliamentary groups. That's less important. It is important that there is a tenth member here, not only because of the Movement for Democratic Serbia that exists or does not exist here, but it is important to have a parity relationship between people who will join the survey board. The Bureau should have 10 people and that's extremely good. However, this way, when the polling committee is seen to have nine members, it seems that some variations are already being prepared in advance. So I would like to ask again, and the promoters and all of you, if we can fill this list of members of the survey board with another member -- here is Mr Stanko Kovacevic, who stood for it the most -- and thus complete this list exactly as the DSS requested. I don't think there's anything controversial about it, and in this case, New Serbia, as a political party that advocates the formation of a polling committee, will vote for this polling committee. However, I openly say, as I have also said about the Labour Act and the vote of confidence to Mr Marsicanin, unless this happens and a survey committee is formed in this composition as foreseen here, our parliamentary group will be abstained.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15728	Anybody else answer for a word? Does the Proposer's representative want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15729	Dear ladies and gentlemen, not thinking that I will welcome the time to vote on this proposal, I have actually already given the final word and I would just like to respond to the president of the New Serbia parliamentary group that it is perfectly acceptable for the 10th member to be a member of the Movement for Democratic Serbia, so that Mr Stanko Kovacevic can, as far as the proposal is concerned, be the 10th member of the polling committee, if, of course, he agrees. I just couldn't suggest, because there are no MP groups at this point. Just one more note, some kind of response, the stenographic notes will confirm whether among us there are those who speak so openly, so publicly the truth: I never told this speaker that I asked the Ministry, of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of any competent authority to provide information on the topics that are open here today. If I did, it would be in the stenographic notes, and if I didn't, then I wouldn't be the one telling the truth, but whoever made that claim about this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15730	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15731	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, anything is possible when a politician allows emotions to overcome reason. I think there is certainly enough motive for this kind of unargumented performance in the initiative to resolve Mr Marsican, but it cannot be expected from the Assembly to violate the Rules of Procedure which clearly determines the rights and obligations of each MP, including the rights and obligations of association in parliamentary groups. You have made one proposal, and you can change that proposal by withdrawing it and, in accordance with DOS's position, re-proposing it at the next session. You have refused such an option, following yesterday's consultations, and it is practically not possible for your intervention without prior respect for Article 24 of the existing Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic's Parliament, which clearly specify the rights of MPs, including the right to association with parliamentary groups. The Democratic Serbia Movement parliamentary group does not exist. There is a DOS parliamentary group that does not want to support this kind of initiative, for already clearly underlined reasons. As for the problematic argument with which you tried to deny what I said, I will forward to you after my performance an official statement from the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of the Interior and the competent assembly service from which records show that you have never actually asked for official information on the fight against organised crime, nor any information about the moves that the Republic Government or any state body is carrying out in an attempt to deal with illegal cigarette smuggling.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15732	Mr. Jovanovic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15733	Mr. Jovanovic, you are becoming a very skilled manipulator. It's nothing wrong and it's a quality for a politician. (Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, from the place: It is far from quality. ) The misunderstanding between us is this: you say that I said that I asked for it and that I deceived the MPs and, of course, the public, because this is being transmitted, I said that I did not ask for it. So, you do your best, so ask the departments for official reports that I didn't ask them to, which I say. There was no need to bother the ministry at all. They've got better things to do. For example, the Ministry of the Interior could finally bring someone from the world of crime to justice, instead of sending you official memos to prove the same thing I said -- that I didn't officially ask them for that kind of information. So, we totally agree on that. You just tell the truth that I said I asked them to, and that's what makes you a manipulator and what makes your exposure completely untrue.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15734	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a unique search. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to look at the situation in the area of production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products. We'll determine the quorum before I put it to the vote. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to look at the situation in the area of production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products. For 98, against 100, abstentioned 11, a total of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to see the situation in the area of tobacco and tobacco products production and transport. The president of the DOS parliamentary group Cedomir Jovanovic, based on Article 159 paragraph 3 and Article 43(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that, following an urgent procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2001. I would like to put the motion of the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, to put on the agenda of this session a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. For 137 against 19, the abstention of three, was not voted 34, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal of the president of the DOS parliamentary group. We move on to the 13th item of the agenda: – DEFINITIONS AND STOPMENTS OF THE JUDGET AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, THE JUDGES AND THE PUBLICATIONS OF THE PUBLIC AFFAIRS For this part of the agenda, you have received proposals from the National Assembly for decisions made by the Committee on Justice and Administration, and this is: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the Judge and President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade, 3. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the duties of the President of the General Court, 4. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts, with amendments and additions to the motion for a decision, and 5. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the functions of public prosecutors, with amendments and additions to the draft decision. You have received a request to suspend the office of Judge and President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, Ratko Butulija. You were given amendments and additions to the motion for a decision on the termination of the Judge's office to the Judges of General Jurisdiction and Commercial Courts and Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the termination of office of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which was established by the Committee for Justice and Administration at the sitting held on 22 November 2001. In addition, you have been served: a motion for a decision on the discharge of the office of the district attorney in Novi Sad and a motion for a decision on the discharge of Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which was established by the Committee for Justice and Administration at a session held on 3 December 2001. I remind you, according to Article 157(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Please submit the list. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, can we continue our work or can I set a break? Please provide me with the conditions to work. Consent to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single review of the motions for decisions on the resolution and termination of the office of the judge and the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, judges and prosecutors. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to put to the vote a proposal to open a single review of the motions for resolution and termination of the functions that I have cited. For 110, against one, the abstentions were not voted 43, a total of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to open a single search on this agenda point. I give my word to the motionary representative, Mr. Dragor Hiber, the chairman of the Justice and Management Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, you have a series of proposals from the Committee on Justice and Management of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which can be grouped as follows: the first group makes proposals, and most of them are for the termination of the judicial post on a personal request and for retirement, and for the termination of the prosecutor's office on a personal request and for retirement. The National Assembly only adopts a declarative act on these proposals, realizing that the conditions for termination of the judicial office have been met. In this group of demands, I would like to point out, it is also a proposal that the functions of judges and president of the Constitutional Court of Serbia be resolved by Mr. Ratko Butulija, a graduate economist, due to his retirement. The second group consists of motions for resolution from the office of the President of the Municipal Courts. In one case, this is due to the end of the term of office, and in three cases in accordance with Article 29(7). Law on the courts of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, two requirements are specific, and they are requirements for a resolution against the will of a judicial holder. This is a proposal to relieve the judge's office of the Supreme Court of Serbia, Mr. Pavel Vukasinovic and the motion to relieve the district attorney's office in Novi Sad, Mr. Miodrag Malo. When it comes to the resolution of Judge Pavol Vukasinovic, the case, provided for by the Court Act, and the general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia has been proposed by the Justice Committee to resolve with an explanation that you received in writing. When it comes to the resolution of Mr. Myodrag the Little One, V.D. the republican public prosecutor has educated the commission that formed the proposal, with an explanation that you received in writing. The Justice and Administration Committee has found that all these proposals have been made in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15736	Do MPs want a word on this agenda point? No, they don't. ) We will wait for a list of reported participants to be made. I give my word to MP Djokovic Dragashi.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15737	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not sure we have a quorum, but it's not mine to look for. But while we're here, I'd like to point out a few things when it comes to justice. Namely, what I want to point out is the ineffectiveness, i.e. the inadequacy and obstruction of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Batic, who does not allow the Justice Committee, according to my assessment, to do the job well, and that is where individuals from the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Team have been involved. In fact, on September 28, 2001, there was an initiative to dismiss the President of the General Court where you have numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. The numbers 4 and 5 include Miroslav Ivanovic, the head of the Kosovo Mitrovica District Court, a very interesting name, and, under the number 5 - Blagoja Jaksic, the head of the Kosovo Mitrovica Municipal Court. However, in the next material of the Justice and Administration Committee, you have a decision to say - they are relieved of their duties on the day of their decision and number 1, 2, and 3, but there are no 4 and 5, there are no gentlemen from Kosovo Mitrovica - Blagoja Jaksic and Miroslav Ivanovic. When we asked why, we received the answer that Mr Batic was under the same number, only on the second date, but on October 12th 2001 he sent a letter to the National Assembly, or to the Committee on Justice, informing them that he was withdrawing the initiative to resolve the duties of the president of those courts because of the need for further consultations with the Coordination Team. We MPs from Kosovo and Metohija have held consultations with the Co-ordination Team, i.e. we have held consultations with Mr Bozo Prelevic, who is on the Co-ordination Team in charge of the affairs of justice and police and who told us that he is absolutely not familiar with this, that this is not his initiative, his request and that it should not be done so. I will remind you of the elections in 1996 -- following a subsequent report by the six-seat Serb polling commission, which are purely Albanian, mass vote for MPs, representatives of the SPS-JUL-New Democracy coalition. According to the report, 605 voters, Poljance 534, Lauša, Likavac, etc. voted in the village of Gornja Prekaza (this is the birthplace of Adem Jasari). The presidents of election commissions were then Mr Blagoja Jaksic and Miroslav Ivanovic. Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic, with Mr. Aleksandra Vukic, wrote a criminal report about the gentleman in question. They know very well how they stole and what they did. If it were the only theft, we'd forgive it, but last year, one of those gentlemen was on election committees. I don't know why we're hiding them now. I don't know why we're keeping them. Whether this is the goal of Batic, whether it is the goal of Covic, is it just because Mr Miroslav Ivanovic is the brother of Oliver Ivanovic, who is now one of the most influential people, whether these are some private initiatives. Because I repeat once again, Mr. Bozo Prelevic, who is in charge of justice at the Coordination Centre, has nothing to do with this initiative, it's not his initiative, it went past him. Judges from Kosovo Mitrovica were coming to the Justice Committee, they were at the Justice Department, they were all promised, and, in addition, the gentlemen in question are already 14 years in office, their mandates have long expired, re-elections, you lawyers better than I know, on the other hand, there is a report of the Justice Department inspection where there have been many abuses. The Kosovo Mitrovica court building is, for those of you who do not know where Kosovo Mitrovica is, the northernmost point in northern Mitrovica; it is abandoned and it is the only building that has been handed over and where Albanians, Albanian court officials in Kosovo Mitrovica are now located. You know how to judge that court, you know who to judge. The building was handed over, left by Mr. Ivanovic and Mr. Jaksic. I expect that the initiative will come here to choose Ivanovic perhaps for the Supreme Court because a man lives in Belgrade, there is at the Belgrade address, as well as Blagoje Jaksic; their families are there, in their apartments live foreign citizens, while they get good fees, i.e. rents for these apartments, etc. In the elections stolen in 1996, the party was voted in favour of the SPS, JUL and New Democracy coalition, the damaged party was the Serbian Radical Party, and in its name Kragovic and Vukic wrote lawsuits, applications and other things. I think it would be my turn to simply give the Justice Committee a chance to, unobstructed by the minister or some informal groups, and this job is properly and specifically done. You will have a report of competent inspections, you will have full insight into the merits of the gentlemen mentioned, and I think they deserve to be relieved of these duties at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15738	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic. You're going instead of Veroljub Arsic? A replica, MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15739	I think I have the right to a replica, given that here my name, and Mr. Ace Wolf, is mentioned on two occasions. The finding -- that in 1996 there was a major election theft, when a mandate was stolen in the Kosovo Mitrovica electoral unit -- was correct; in the Serb municipality, about 6,000 Cypriots voted, and among other things 17 terrorists who were on jail time. They are circled to vote because members of the electoral committees did not know who to round, but needed to round up 6,000 voters, Shipara, in order for the mandate to belong to so-called. the SPS-JUL-New Democracy coalition. I repeat again that there were also 17 convicted terrorists in those 6,000 rounds who were on prison time in Nis. After the event, criminal charges were filed against members of the electoral commission, against members of the electoral committees, which still stands today in one of the drawers in the alleged judicial bodies. All these facts suggest there have been major electoral machinations, but unfortunately these electoral machinations are repeated in 2001. There have been major abuses, although 6,000 voters have been falsified before, and now it's falsified, ladies and gentlemen, by DOS 60,000 voters. It's falsified to create some sort of alleged "return" coalition. What is shameful is that there is a continuing practice where there is no free and fair choice; and as the government of the Republic of Serbia today, I am simply afraid of what all elections will be. If, at the expense of Serbian citizens, public robbery is made through various regulations, which were up to a few minutes ago, how the election results will then be robbed, all in order to protect the chair, to protect the function, to protect the regime. I fully support Mr. Djokovic's presentation that is right with all these elections, voters, by adding these electoral machinations and electoral machinations that occurred recently in the alleged Hekerup elections in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15740	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15741	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the chairman of the Justice Committee, Dr. Dragor Hiber, has given very strict reasons why individual judges and judicial officials are relieved of their duties. I would divide it into three groups: one group that is resolved because certain judges are retired, one that is resolved on the basis of its own request and one group that literally needs to be taken out of court. Now the question arises why some certain judges simply throw themselves out. I believe that there are also those who deserve it on that list, but I believe that it is political rematchism, and even the political incompatibility of certain judicial and other functions in the judiciary. The question arises as to what Mr. Justice and Local Self-Government Minister, Mr. Vladan Batic, is doing constantly throughout Serbia, in municipal and district courts. It is already a minor public secret that no proposal from the Ministry of Justice to the Justice Committee will reach unless the parent and municipal board of DHSS confirms the proposal for a judge or any other holder of judicial and judicial functions. The question of the legality of this shift is raised, because I simply cannot believe there are so many unfavourable judges in Serbia. I ask a simple question - whether there will be judges and judges in Serbia in the month or two at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15742	The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people, Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15743	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing total social reforms, including reforms in the area of justice. The judiciary is the last branch of the government to start reforming itself, because, as everyone knows, the legislative authority was reformed the moment after the 2000 free elections, the Assembly was elected as it is here before us. The executive power was established in January of this year and it created a prerequisite for the executive authority to be reformed. Of course, we cannot be satisfied; reforms should affect all segments of society, there should be continued reforms in the executive government, where a large number of executives, a large number of executive authorities still have stakes, definitions and burdens carried out by the previous regime. The current government is in great trouble - reforms should be implemented, and reforms should be carried out by institutions infected by ideological attitudes of many executives. The situation in the judiciary is indeed with great burdens from the past, because the judiciary in the past has been politicised, because the highest judicial functions were primarily chosen by party membership, and how obedient they were to the centres of power that created our social and legal life. Only when the new government began to regulate this area, when it passed the laws on justice, was the set of laws that constitute system laws as the basis for changes in the judiciary, were the conditions for personal changes in this very important area. We know that Serbian citizens were extremely unhappy with the work of judicial holders, because they felt that judicial institutions did not meet all those criteria that would guarantee the rule of law, the equality of citizens before the law. We are also witnessing that in the past, a large number of procedures have been politically motivated, mounted, that persecuted political insinuators, that the judiciary and judicial holders were instrumentalised by political centres of power in election processes, and all with the aim of falsifying the electoral will of citizens. Unfortunately, in these mounted electoral processes, the leading role was played by the highest legal holders. So we witnessed that judges of the Federal Court, judges of the Supreme Court, judges and presidents of the district courts were involved in the election theft and assembly of election results. All of this has caused a great dissatisfaction by citizens who have also resulted in mass protests, which is why citizens did not trust the state institutions. I can say, as a lawyer and now as president of the Yugoslav Bar Association, that Serbian and Yugoslav lawyers watch and watch closely what is happening in our parliament and how initiatives will be carried out to resolve judges who have not acted honestly and who have not acted in accordance with the law. That's why we can't accept the interpretation that some judges are guilty now just because they've tried according to once-in-a-lifetime non-democratic laws. I tell you on this occasion that many judges have sinned against such, undemocratic, laws. When the Public Information Act was in force, some judges also wronged their function under that law, as individuals on request for their exemption advertised and rejected such requests for their own exemption. When it decided on complaints and complaints to resolve election commissions in 1996, the same bigger one decided on the same day that the objections were not allowed and rejected those objections, that after half an hour the same objection would be rejected as unfounded. So these are evidence that such a larger one has acted against the law, since it is obvious that in two identical cases, the exact opposite has occurred. As far as the judge's resolution is concerned, I was, for example, about the new law, the new set of law on justice predicting the possibility of a general re-election of judges, holders of judicial functions. In this way, this assembly and the Committee on Justice and the President of the Supreme Court and V.D. A republican public prosecutor has a difficult job. In any case, he will have to prove by means of a negative selection who wronged the law, who acted immorally and unworthyly, and who would suggest his resolution in this congregation. We have here a motion to relieve the judges and holders of the prosecutor's office, based on personal demands, for the fulfillment of the terms of retirement. Unfortunately, many of these judges have wronged the law. They did not need to make a solution to the resolution in this session of the Assembly for the purpose of meeting the conditions for retirement. Individuals were the inspirers of electoral theft and forgeries of the people's will. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to prove their behavior in time and get rid of them in front of this tall home for responsibility and for illegal behavior. There are several such judges on this list who do not deserve to be relieved of their retirement conditions. Likewise, many others who have wronged the law, who have acted against the law and morals, and who have wronged their dignity to perform a high judicial function have not come to this list. For example, no district prosecutor from Prokupje came to the discharge list, and all forces prevented the conduct and initiation of criminal proceedings against people who have sinned as holders of functions in public or social enterprises and damaged the social community for enormous amounts. Although a large number of lawyers, a large number of citizens signed an initiative or petition to resolve this man, still, unfortunately, our state authorities have not acquired the possibility of this injustice of correction. I expect that the minister of justice will initiate the resolution of all those whom the citizens have pointed out, which the profession has pointed to, and which there is numerous evidence that they have acted against. We need to make personal changes to the judiciary, and it is only a guarantee that a new set of laws guaranteeing depolitisation will indeed be applied, that citizens will be leveled before the law and that the rule of law will be established. I am sure that the judiciary will be depoliticised in the future, but we must also not be naive to establish depolitisation from previous centres of power and from all those judges who have come to high judicial posts on the party line. I expect that the ministries and the competent state authorities will speed up the initiative for their resolution and come instead, as holders of judicial functions, young people, unburdened, decent and very important and significant functions, which guarantee that the laws will be applied consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15744	He has the floor of MP Zivko Selakovic as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15745	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, as an MP who has not been missing from one session (with great respect to a number of my colleagues and colleagues), I think that from MPs who attend only when some decisions are made, and then leave us here, to sit here and listen to speakers in front of an empty room, this is not correct in relation to those who do not, and I ask that the quorum be established.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15746	I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15747	I'm guessing we have a quorum. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15748	Dear Presidency, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, we are probably all a little tired of the lengthy duration of this session, so I will try not to hold your attention too long with my discussion. Maybe I wouldn't have answered if this point had remained the way it was when the agenda was formed, but I had to answer because we got two new proposals today to get rid of one Supreme Court judge and a district attorney in Novi Sad. I don't think those two dots should pass without a little comment. Otherwise, as far as the work of the Justice Committee is concerned, I think it is good that the Committee has taken a position to respect the fact that this assembly has passed a package of judicial laws, under which the holders of judicial functions will be elected by and proposed by the High Council of Justice in the future, means that this assembly, acting under the old laws, should be very restrictively acted, i.e. only in cases where it is necessary for the functioning of a particular court or a certain prosecutor's office. As for the package of motions for the resolution of legal holders on a personal request for retirement, in law or other duty, we are left here just to agree to it, because it is their will. We Socialists will support that part of the motion for resolution, and I am also taking this opportunity to get rid of all these people, who today we solve and formally thank them and to wish them a long and healthy pension. As for these two resolutions and the arguments we have received for them, this is not about the resolution on a personal request, nor about the Supreme Court judge, nor about the district attorney in Novi Sad, but about the assessment of the competent authorities that they were working unprofessionally and unconsciously. One brief comment - as regards the Supreme Court judge, in the light of the proposal, we could read that he was burdened with intricacies in one case, as well as the way he made the decision in the case. We think that this way of resolution is not good in principle, not only because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that no one can bear responsibility, who participates in the trial, for a vote given during the trial, but also because of the fact that this resolution did not follow the basic documentation on the work of that judge either. I'll remind you -- when we ask between candidates for the election of judges for the municipal court, professional associates, young lawyers, to see what grade they graduated from, we ask to see what the opinion of the court's college is, in which they interned, worked, looking for plenty of data to determine which of them would be the best judge of the municipal court. Now, when we resolve the Supreme Court judge, who is the highest court in the country, we allow us to do so without having a single figure, no indication of how this judge worked, whether his convictions were lifted, how the higher courts acted on complaints and other legal means on his judgments. So it's obvious that the reasons for dispensing that Supreme Court judge are not hidden either in unprofessional, nor in unconscious work, but in some other sphere, but I'd like to use this pay phone and guess what the essential reasons are. As for the district attorney in Novi Sad, there are things, I think, even more eclectantly moved in a negative sense. We received a proposal from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to relieve the district attorney's office in Novi Sad, with an explanation (I will read only the first position) that "for several years back this district prosecutor had built his work and conduct by putting his subordinated associates, deputy district attorneys and municipal public prosecutors in his area in a humiliating position, while the superiors were completely ignored" etc. The Justice and Administration Committee received a letter signed by all the deputy district attorneys in Novi Sad and all municipal public prosecutors from the districtal public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad;ion, among other things, said in their letter: "In view of the proposal of the perpetrators of the Republic's public prosecutor for the resolution of Miodrag Mali, with the duty of district attorney in Novi Sad, we express our strictest dissent and opposition both to the content and procedure for determining the existence of reasons for resolution. Our disdain and opposition stems from the fact that the motion for a resolution has no support in the provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Law, that it is based on completely incorrect and constructed facts, and the procedure which allegedly obtained facts is absolutely inappropriate and is not in accordance with the provisions of the law. The proposed claims are absolutely unacceptable from the point of view of the reasons for the resolution of prosecutors due to intricacies and inconsciousness in the work, and the result of the simplest structures at the level of the personal animosities of the people most competent to assess the work of any prosecutor, especially when assessing his expertise and safety in the work. This kind of act makes us feel humiliated as public prosecutors, as the act came out of the public prosecutor's office, in which the district attorney in Novi Sad rightly has a recognizable authority." The act was signed in the Assembly by all deputy district attorneys in Novi Sad and all municipal public prosecutors in the district of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think that, both as a Committee and as a Assembly, we are unfair and against these people, if we go over one of these attitudes of people whose authority we really shouldn't doubt, at least not like this, when they characterise and judge their superiors. Also, this resolution proposal has not been followed by any figures. We have the unofficial knowledge that the prosecution, as well as the imnomial comrade in Serbia, was the subject of regular and extraordinary controls organised by the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and that, in all these controls, the actions of all prosecutors in the districtal public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad were in accordance with the law. From all of this, I think that behind all these reasons for resolution, there is neither intricacies nor incompetence, but that the reasons are of some other nature. It is likely that both examples today are on the agenda so that all judges and prosecutors in Serbia will be sent a clear message that anyone who dares to publicly contradict the executive authorities in the way these two carriers have gone. Since we have been defined for the second concept in the judiciary and other relations, for the depolitisation of the judiciary, this message from this session should not have been addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15749	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Sikimic is giving up the discussion. The word has been issued by MP Dragan Cholic, after which MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15750	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the arrival of DOS manlia, no sphere of society has been able to proceed through improvement and prosperity. In all areas of society, chaos arises, as well as in the area of justice. It seems that the most active committee of the National Assembly is the Justice Committee, led by Mr. Drago Hiber. I think it would best fit that committee's name - the Extermination, Fire and Destroying Committee of Justice Officers. The choice of legal holders is gone, so to speak. The election may have been made in the cabinet of the minister of injustice Vladan Batic. The basic value and characteristics for selecting the holders of judicial functions are the moral-political resemblance, so that the promise in the pre-election campaign, which DOS minorities have benefited greatly from the deception of Serbian citizens -- that the judiciary will be independent, that political parties' influence will be freed -- there is nothing. I was here in my earlier stages saying that the sensual incident occurred in the halls of the National Assembly, when the goddess of justice came to see how the minister of justice worked, Mr. Vladan Batic and, seeing him, she fainted, she fainted, they barely regained it, and then they had to put a blindfold on her. Chaos is in all areas of society because of your criminal understanding of democracy, it's hard to say anything about choice or non-election, destroying the holders of judicial functions. There's chaos everywhere, gentlemen, wherever you put your hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15751	The word comes from MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15752	Since most have already prepared bags to return home, I cannot help but point out a few facts that really burden all of us, especially those people who are tied to the judiciary and those who earn their bread by working in the judiciary. I must point out that this, in a number of similar acts, the Serbian judiciary is indeed reduced to the lowest possible level, to the lowest level that does not allow and does not provide in any way the independence of the judiciary, which is really necessary, if we want to insist on the consolidation of the rule of law. However, although there is now a kind of legal vacuum, since the applicable Law on Courts and the applicable Public Prosecutor's Law must be respected, there are some acts that are absolutely incompatible with the provisions of this law. Namely, this is just another example, and there are many of them; I would now point out that it is being prepared (and as far as I'm aware it has been through the Justice Committee) a proposal to appoint some holders of functions in the judiciary, without the fact that previous holders of the same functions are being resolved. So it happens without consulting collectives, without holding a session of the Supreme Court and without any arguments on the basis of which it appears. So, all these people are still working in these places and you gentlemen are proposing some new solutions that may not even be appropriate. However, some time ahead of us proves and shows how things are in this country, I mean you DOS, and if you care about the rule of law and legalism, you have to act a little differently, in a very different way than you're acting right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15753	The word is from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a moment when the proposal for a decision to set up a polling committee to determine the paths of illegal tobacco and tobacco transport was to be rejected, there were over 100 DOS MPs, obviously quickly collected; they are now not and are not expected to allow the opposition in the hall to quorum for decision-making to be resolved by some judicial officials. The Serbian Radical Party really wants the holders of judicial functions in their work to be independent, to judge by law and conscience. We do not want political parties involved in the work of judges, we do not want them to have a crucial impact on the choice of judicial holders. The fact is that all this time, since the DOS took over power in Serbia, there has been a constant argument between members of individual political parties whose judge, prosecutor or judge for crimes will be appointed to the National Assembly. Now we have the impression that he is involved everywhere, I think, the almighty minister of justice or injustice Vladan Batic. When Vladan Batic asked for his time...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15755	Sir, please take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15756	But I really didn't say anything that could endanger the minister or any member of the DOS. When recently Justice Minister Vladan Batic resolved a number of misdemeanor judges, the reason was that they acted in accordance with the Public Information Act and that they could no longer be judges for violations. So the judges who tried by law were cleared because they did not correspond to the current ruling regime. We now have a motion to rescind the Supreme Court judge and the district attorney. This explanation here is not enough to rule out or be fired from some work organisation by a cleaning man or a worker working on the work of a physical worker, and you expect us to now believe in these few sentences of shrewd explanation that require the resolution of the Supreme Court judge. We really don't believe that you're doing things by conscience and doing what you think will be better in Serbia's judiciary. And this time there's a party charge going on. The point is that we want to propose party people and that in Serbia we still do not have an independent judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15757	The People's MP Rajko Baralić has the word, and after that, MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15758	Dear Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, esteemed journalists, among those who retire on a personal request are judges of the District Court in Cačka, Mr. Veroljub Raketic and Mr. Milovan Gavrilovic. These gentlemen fall into the order of those people, those judges and those Chacans who, with their decades of duration, marked everything they've done in the best possible way and belong to those people whose qualities are almost all qualities of virtue. They deserve to be spoken of on this occasion a few sentences. Mr. Milovan Gavrilovic has been the judge of the District Court in Cačka for more than 30 years. Mr. Veroljub Raketic is also more than 30 years of judge of the District Court and the recent head of the County Court in Cačka, one of the best district courts in the Republic of Serbia. Once 15 years ago, hardliners challenged Mr. Raketic's various things -- that he had something to do with Chetnic emigration, that he was married to a family that wasn't partisan and something else in this area. But Mr. Veroljub Raketic was and remained an honorable man, an honorable Cachanian, an honorable judge who is also from a decent family, as he was married from a decent family, no matter what those people said about him at the time. Mr. Milovan Gavrilovic was removed from the seat of Parliament Speaker Cačak in 1989 because he was born in a village where Ivan Stambolic was born and because, as they said, it was not enough on the course that was currently in place. These people, with their own professional relationship, have outdone everything that can be opposed to them, what opposed them and what they were in a position to endure, because I note that they were able to judge for another two and a half years. Mr. Veroljub Raketic chaired the council, which said several Western European officials punish for what NATO's alliance has done to our country. It is my honor that from this pay phone in front of the Chacan and Serbian, in front of the professional public, I could talk about these two judges, about Mr Raketic and Mr Gavrilovic, to say at least a fraction of what they deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15759	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarevic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the justice system is now known to everyone but the judges. First, in the means of informing and making decisions that are people for the shooting (your assets), and then Justice Minister Mr Batic takes effect and as a major reformer solves this by an urgent and short procedure. The next system is a TV camera and a democratic proposal is strengthened through the media. In the end, just like today, DOS majority do so in the Assembly of Scissors. I don't know if this Serbia of ours will have so many clean people according to your criteria, who will be able to work in courts. Mr. Hiber has an assignment to clean up the judiciary, and after that, he's back on the line, I just don't know which one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15761	The Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and after him is the messenger of the people, Lazarus of Marjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15762	The proposal, which took place primarily by the resolution ministry headed by the resolution minister, was delivered to the Assembly by the committee in principle by the competent committee, has nothing unusual in itself. It's the right of every authority to change, and in this case also the holders of judicial functions. But something that leaves a mark on all of this, something that would not be desirable to go into practice (and apparently most of it works that it's inevitable to become a practice) is that most of these people are resolved after talking to a resolute minister and, imagine what miracle, attended by Aleksandar Stefanovic, popularly called a pharmacist, with a fake degree in pharmaceuticals. After that conversation, most people are relieved of their functions. This leaves a mark, leaving dirt, given that a university professor who has accepted this kind of dirty work by the chairman of the Committee for Good Compensation paid him on behalf of the board of directors (which is over 3,000 marks or 100,000 dinars). That's the same man who, by order of a quadrupled pharmacist, needs to teach students what is right and what is justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15763	Mr. Mircic, take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15764	You know, though, with all of us, no matter what party we belong to, there's one opinion that we can do anything on behalf of party discipline, but don't, colleagues, as a person, leave dirty clues like individuals, your colleagues from DOS, and in this case the chairman of the board of directors and a graduate pharmacist.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15765	The word has Gordana Pop-Lazic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group, under the authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, did any of you ever wonder why this number of judges is asking on a personal request to stop him from being a judge? You know very well how popular a judicial function is among the lawyers and how much we lawyers are trying to achieve some dream of meeting us in the judiciary, and how few of us could have been found in the judiciary, because the judiciary has never been depolitized, and not today, on the contrary. These judges, there are 16 of them, and it's not the first time we have this long list, they obviously didn't want to become members of the Society of Judges or they didn't want to sign the accession card of the Demochrist Party. Vladan Batic is running around the courts, with several judges visiting courts and leading teams of RTS and other TVs, which are recording along the way because he is working as a professional and is actually promoting his party. I'm convinced, not knowing these people personally, that these are honest people who didn't want to get their cheeks dirty, who decided to pull out of the judiciary in this difficult time and wait some other time to prove themselves professionally in court. There is also the resolution of the district attorney in Novi Sad (Miodrag Mali) at the request of V.D. The Republic Public Prosecutor, although V.D. There's no such thing as law. I wonder why any haste to resolve these judges and prosecutors if we have already passed a set of laws on courts, judges and public prosecutors, which have come into force, although they have only been applied since January 1st, that's 10-15 days from now, why now, by the old law and by an emergency procedure? Perhaps their colleagues at the High Council of Justice wouldn't have stepped behind these proposals. It's easier through this exterminator, Drago Hiber, who gets a hundred thousand dinar fee for his dirty work. Yes, Mr. Dragor Hiber, that's what the papers say, and I believe that your compensation is even bigger a month for the post of chairman of the Telecom Management Board. (President: But it's not a topic. ) The reason for the resolution of Mr Miodrag Malo is, according to the Committee here, a lack of awareness in the conduct, which has shown in refusing to respect and comply with the mandatory instructions of the Republic Public Prosecutor, using their own personal opinions that have deviated from the practice of prosecution of all public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. Where's the functionality of the function? I suppose a man should have a personal attitude, or perhaps he should come to you, Mr. Hiber, or to Justice Minister Vladan Batic for a personal opinion? Pavle Vukasinovic is also an anonymous person to me. The name I know is, he's the Supreme Court judge, as successful or unsuccessful as he was, in an explanation you're dissatisfied with how he handled the case in just one case. Is that the reason for a judge's resolution, and there's a higher truth, there's a real complaint? It's something you can't really accept. It is a criminal case against indicted Vladimir Nikolic, a former member of the D.B.'s service, who, on the indictment of Belgrade's district attorney, was responsible for the crime of giving away state secrets and illicit weapons. The appointed judge, Pavle Vukasinovic, accepted, during his duties as judge of the Belgrade District Court, that he acted in that case as president of the council, even though he knew that the case was assigned to him in the course of the reception, contrary to the provisions of the court's Rules of Procedure. Can a judge choose which case he will take if the President of the Court, perhaps past the Rules of Procedure, assigns him some sort of case? I don't think he can, he could never, and he can't now. Leprechaun Karamarkovic assigns an object as she thinks it should. Here's a case of administrative dispute in the case: Vojislav Seselj v. Faculty of Law. Leposava Karamarkovic decided that, past the law and the case law, she preserved the legal nebulosa of Gaš Knezevic, and chose a particularly judicial council composed of: Aleksandar Doncic, Milena Savatic and Olga Djuric, who agreed to defend their views and protect Gaš Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15767	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm interrupting you on the basis of article 100 and under article. 81st and 84th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As the end of the working day approaches, and to allow Mrs. Gordani Pop-Lazic to complete her presentation, I suggest we continue the work on the 13th agenda, there are a dozen more registered speakers, (about 17 minutes to discuss) and end the 14th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to put the motion to vote so we can extend our working hours until the end of item 14. For 109 against 23, the abstentions were not voted by 17, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to extend the working time until the hearing is completed and the decision by point 14. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I apologize again. I note that you have used six minutes and that you can continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15768	Madam Chairman, you have now denied me the right to vote. You knew I was reporting as a representative of the parliamentary group, where I have 10 or even 20 minutes at my disposal, because I can put the debate together for 20 minutes. (President: That's exactly why I asked for a vote. You could have put your proposal to the vote before I went out for a pay phone. This is how you interrupted my exposure, made it impossible for me to vote, and you should be carrying out some conjunctivals about it. An apology to me really isn't enough. When it comes to the election of public prosecutors, we also warned you when you passed a new law on the public prosecutor's office that your criteria are below each level and that they undermine such important state functions. For the municipal public prosecutor in Bujanovac, you are proposing Zoran Mitic, who worked on the affairs of lawyers at the Social Labour Centre in Bujanovac, was the director of the same centre; the judge for violations in the municipal body for violations, and since 2000, the secretary of the Construction Directorate in Bujanovac, which he is doing today. In the opinion of V.D. Director of the Construction Directorate in Bujanovac, which was provided in accordance with Article 32. The Public Prosecutor's Law, in addition, states that the appointed professionally and quality performs its tasks. Neither this Zoran Mitic knows what it is to be a public prosecutor, nor this martyr v.d. The Director of this Directorate is known as the Public Prosecutor so that he can assess whether he can perform that function in a quality or unquality way. All of this shows what kind of attitude you have towards justice, how much you're looking at instrumentalizing the judiciary, how politicized the judiciary is. More than ever. And frankly, we are worried about what will happen as of January 1st when new laws will allow you to make a smaller click, similar to Drago Hiber, Vladan Batic and Leposavi Karamarkovic, deciding on the human rights structure of our judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15769	Right on the line, Mr. Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15770	First of all, a lie has been repeated here many times, but repeating lies cannot create the truth that the compensation received by the chairman of the Management Board of Telekom Srbija is, I think, 100,000 dinars. The fee received by the chairman of Telekom Srbija's Management Board is several times lower. So much for that. I can't say how much, because it's under the sale agreement. Yes, that's how much I can say when you're telling lies. I'd go back to matter. It has been said that the motion to dismiss Serbia's Supreme Court Judge, Mr. Pavol Vukasinovic, was brought to me by which circles and I don't know what talks. The motion to dismiss Judge Pavol Vukasinovic was established by the General Session of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which is made up of all judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, therefore, the widest possible forum, and by the vast majority of votes. The adoption of the proposal could not have been attended by any official of the executive authority and even less by the Justice Committee and by its chairman. As regards the motion to resolve District Attorney Miodrag Malogi, for reasons of disregard for mandatory instructions that raised the issue because it allegedly constitutes an attack on the independence of the public prosecutor's office; of course, such a claim is totally contrary not only to the law, but also to the logic of the organisation and the work of the public prosecutor's office. A lower prosecutor is required under the law to follow mandatory instructions. Any other treatment would mean self-will in criminal prosecution, the inequality of citizens, and therefore the legal mechanism, whose final act is to be resolved on a proposal by a Republic public prosecutor, is foreseen. On this proposal, the Committee on Justice shall give its opinion only.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15771	The word is by MP Lazar Marjanski, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15772	I don't know a judge in principle, but I would say that I agree that the public prosecutors and judges change because they stole the Serbian Radical Party in the elections several times, and we filed criminal charges against them, so the D.A.'s gentlemen wouldn't press charges. However, this new government, to this day, has not filed a criminal complaint against those people who drastically stole the Serbian Radical Party. As for public prosecutors, for Mr. Malloy, I don't know much about him, but I can say that there is fear of such a public prosecutor who is exceptional, who can be measured with the greatest honor and honesty; such a public prosecutor, who has never been in any election, who has refused the pressures of all parties, should not be intimidated by this authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15773	The People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15774	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, we were just listening to Mr. Hiber's replica here publicly said that his receipts were not 100,000, but more times smaller. But he didn't say which currency it was about, and probably the only time he said this was right: it's multiple times smaller, but in German stamps or in euros, I don't know which currency. Normally, it's just a job to get 100,000 marks, and it's enough with 100,000 dinars. As far as the motion for a decision on the transfer of judges is concerned, I happen to only know Mr. Pavel Vukasinović, because Mr. DragorHiber and I were members of that same Federal Election Commission. It says here that the reasons are unconscious while he was still the District Court judge in Belgrade. The lack of awareness in the performance of the judicial post and the lack of awareness in the conduct of Pavle Vukasinovic also showed the role of a member of the Federal Election Commission, appointed as judge, agreeing to carry out the SPS order and publicly announce the incorrect results of the election for the president of the SRJ. I would like to remind Mr Hiber that this same sentence should have been written in the text and said - the lack of awareness in the conduct of Pavle Vukasinovic also showed as a member of the Federal Election Commission, in which he was appointed as judge, agreeing to carry out the DOS order and publicly announce the incorrect results of the election for the president of the SRJ. Why wouldn't that be, if we were all familiar with that finding, that there were also machinations and various kinds of pressures on the members of the Federal Election Commission. Normally, the members of the Federal Election Commission of the Serbian Radical Party did not participate, nor do they want to participate in any of the dirty things. All this suggests that that promise -- the rule of law, the rule of law, an independent, impartial judiciary -- remains for some future political power that will be at the head of the state and for some future government, which will succeed in creating, at last, conditions for the rule of law, for the judiciary to really be independent. What we have now is only a shift of party-like personnel in the authorities of the judiciary and the public prosecutor's office. By yesterday, members of the JUL and SPS did so, and today, the DOS political powers. All this suggests that what the Dosmanians promised citizens before the elections that they had violated, and I think this is another concrete evidence, I apologize, that it is time for the Serbian government to resign, to disband the assembly and discuss new early elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15775	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the last year and several months, there's been an open haranga and haika, I'd say - a subsidiary in courts and prosecutors. It was never in this way to get rid of judges and prosecutors. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes a way of resolving and choosing; the Law on Courts and Judges also, as well as the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. For the second time, I spoke to the authorities of the Justice Committee, and I did not get these data from which it could be seen on the basis of which the Justice Committee found that a judge or prosecutor had performed his post unwittingly and unprofessionally. If he was unwittingly performing that function, he broke the law and it was necessary to establish the fact that he committed a crime - violation of the law by the judge or abuse of official office. He was supposed to be charged with criminal charges. In the absence of such evidence, it is easiest to appeal to incompetence and unconsciousness. But, gentlemen, give this information to the MPs so that the MPs can make sure and convince them that your proposal was in place - that it was established and that there are facts. The resolution of Miodrag Mali, the resolution of Vukasinovic, is not proof; the proposal is made in the Supreme Court and delivered as a notice to the Justice Committee, and the Justice Committee should only declare it to the MPs and MPs to vote. So this isn't how it's supposed to work, this is a haranga and a tsarania in the judiciary. I'm appealing, and I'm asking it to stop, because this doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15777	The word is made by the MP of the people Natasa Jovanovic, followed by the MP of the people Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15778	In a minute and a half, as far as you're giving us in your democratic Rules of Procedure, I can only say a few words about your proposals for the resolution of the judges, received by the MPs. Namely, this continues one DOS tyranny led by Vlad Batic, and now Drago Hiber. We expect it to happen until the people drive you out of power. So not only in the area of justice, but wherever you go in such a way, through your kind of humanization, you replace people without any valid arguments and arguments. The fact that you're here is a reference to the law, and what do you say as proposed by V.D. a republican public prosecutor, talks enough about you, that you have no honor, no morals with you, when you can stand behind such an argument signed by V.D. a republican public prosecutor. We've been warning you for months that V.D. a republican public prosecutor, an absolutely unconstitutional place and an unconstitutional way to be taken by Mr Nedic - all what Leposava Karamarković does, all what Vladan Batic and Dragor Hiber does, along with your DOS majority, through the so-called The High Council of Justice. And in the end, everything the public has said and many of the honorable judges you're going to drive out of their seats will be enough for you to bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15779	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic. The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, followed by the National MP Bozidar Vucurovic, then after the MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, it is up to Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15780	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the same time of black socks is coming. Just as Mr. Vladan Batic was breaking into Galenika, so Mr. Batic falls into the judiciary and wants to solve problems in the judiciary. In your election campaign, it seems to me that you promised Serbian citizens that there would be no rematchism, or that you would solve problems (whether in the judiciary, whether in the economy) only where there were certain errors in the previous period. For now, I guess that doesn't apply to you. It's about the principle: whoever isn't with you, who isn't with you, he's actually changing. He doesn't really have a place in either, and especially in a judicial system that should probably be a character nowadays, as you say, of the rule of law. There's no rule of law. You also showed this with this proposal for a decision that was ahead of us, when a survey committee was to be formed, where your transparent behaviour was to be determined, your rule in the previous period. There goes Mr. Chad again, because he won't listen to it; for, however, he is the one who gets probably from Mr. Batic's orders, that they only know, that they come after the hypodromics and see what they do on these hypodromics when they're racing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15781	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Miroljub Veljkovic. Also on the list are MPs Branislav Blazic and Goran Cvetanovic, if not there, then MP Miroljub Veljkovic, after them, declared speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this item of the agenda is called: Resolvement and termination of office to the Judge and President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, judges and public prosecutors, on the basis of a proposal for a decision taken by the Committee for Justice and Administration. It would be so that all MPs in the Republic Assembly are naive. Since not all MPs and members of the DOS can't all be naive. It is an official proposal for a decision taken by the Committee on Justice and Administration and is that under it is the signature of Mr. Dragor Hiber, chairman of the Justice Committee. How truly, these decisions, as suggestions from the Committee, can be appreciated by this congregation. The question is how far behind this can be signed by the president of the Committee, Mr Dragor Hiber, when we know that behind that, behind all the resolutions that this assembly has been doing in the past few months, the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice of the European Union has been standing. Mr. Stamenkovic, an SRS MP, when he spoke and tried to convince MPs in this assembly that behind all these decisions was Mr. VD, who is the minister of justice, commented that he would receive a warning. Here, we don't have to mention his name. The entire public of Serbia knows that. May he today’s name be N.N. Minister of Justice and Injustice in the Republic of Serbia. So, by the express order of the Minister of N.N. - The chairman of the Justice Committee does so and forward this decision to us. That is why it would be rewarded by the chairman of the board of directors, where it receives more than the amount spoken (100,000) and probably nearly 2,000, but not the dinars but the euro. As long as he is the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, and also a professor, a respected professor of Law School, he speaks enough of his signature behind these decisions; these are decisions that speak one and only: DOS principle and postulate - an independent judiciary - speak through these resolutions. You don't need an independent judiciary, you get the authority that needs a judiciary that depends on DOS authorities. So you're introducing -- what you used to have since most of you were, members of the Communist Union -- a moral political resemblance. That's it and that's the solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15783	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. It's the last registered speaker. There are two minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15784	I don't know if there's a man in this Serbia who believed Mr. Hiber had a salary of less than 100,000 dinars. I didn't believe him either, because I'm absolutely sure that his receipts are far, far greater. You know, technical co-operation with Simmons, etc. However, Mr. Hiber, you around that salary should see with the editors of these media who published it. If there was an information law that you had abolished, you would now have the right to seek material evidence under that law. I understand, however, that it is a state secret of special importance, so you couldn't tell here how much adherence was prescribed to the chairman of the board of directors. Dear People's MPs, I do not dispute that there has been an abuse in selecting the holders of judicial functions, and as you like to say in the previous regime. It was, of course, but you still have to agree, it's what the judges and the holders of the judicial functions look at, that they were controversial phenomena. As you from DOS came to power, it became a practice. It is a controversial phenomenon that legal procedures are respected when selecting legal holders. How does that work in your DOS directorship? Some local DOS committees at the level of municipalities are meeting: firstly, they measure the moral-political resemblance of new judicial officials; the shifts of those old, regardless of their professional qualities and without any procedure; they deliver some kind of DOS central committee here in Belgrade, which filteres it all, agrees because any political party (normally the most Batic) must participate in the judiciary. Then the Justice Committee, chaired by Mr. Hiber, is a simple formality. They've only been amening it here and that's how it works when you choose a judicial officer since you came to power. So please, Mr. Hiber, don't distract us like this anymore, I apologize for having to say so, with stupid explanations. This is a short political pamphlet, this is nothing. So, changing a member of Serbia's Supreme Court with such an explanation really doesn't make any sense. You should have, as the Czech Republic did, passed a law on lustration, taken down all the holders of judicial functions, and then people would know it was a political memory. It would be far more honest, not like this, to defile honest and honest people, most honest and honest people, who work in the Serbian judiciary. Because of this methodology, to be first published in the press that because of incompetence and intricacies, these judges are being changed; and then allegedly, the Justice Committee will decide on this; because of it, so many people, honest and honest, have retired without wanting to expose themselves to this harassment. All in all, I don't understand, at the end of the day, why hastened with these two last and at all with these last amendments, when the new law on courts comes into force on 1 January 2002; it is seen that it is a simple political harangus, in fact, racing for some important seats in the Serbian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15785	He has the word Mr. Zarko Obradovic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15786	The esteemed presidency, fellow MPs, has already discussed the situation in the judiciary several times this year and held a choice of judicial officials. And today on the agenda, however, we only have a solution, whether it's a personal request or a proposal from the competent state authorities. In relation to all these changes that have been made, which are certainly going to be, a fundamental question arises: has something changed in Serbia's judiciary compared to these human rights changes; can we say that there is an independent judiciary, professionally and capable of solving current problems; is there a rule of law being built, whether citizens believe in law and justice; are they safe and protected from the will of individuals or groups; is the situation in Serbia good? Are those basic criteria applied to the resolution of judicial officials; for example, for judges: the quality of judgments, which means abolished and revised decisions; or are other criteria? I have to say that the socialist attitude is that the answer to all these questions that I've asked is negative. It means that there is, unfortunately, an independent judiciary; and I say, unfortunately for Serbia and the citizens, that rule of law is far from what should be - when selecting the holders of judicial functions, party criteria are applied, not professional ones. But since this is about the resolution, that part of the explanation was given by my colleague Zoran Nikolic, at least regarding these two requests from the competent state authorities. I wouldn't add anything to that. I would like to mention one thing, one very important reason: why, in our opinion, there is chaos in the judiciary - and until this systemic error is removed, it is hardly that any current or future choice and any human change can bring about something better to the judiciary - it is because of the interference of the executive authority in the work of the judicial authorities, that is, in everything that is related to the work of the judicial authorities. First of all, this chaos that exists in the judicial system, in Serbia's legal system... (loud from the gym: no transmission) So it's not all about transmission, if someone's doing it for transmission, then they missed the address. The chaos in the judiciary has arisen and there are many reasons -- firstly, because of the disrespect of the Constitution and the law, firstly by those who are most called upon to respect the Constitution and the laws. Unfortunately, the most recent example of such a case is when the president of the SPS, Slobodan Milosevic, was kidnapped, and none of the judges, who were directly or indirectly responsible for it, said a single word, expressed their position, let alone reacted. First of all, it had to be the investigative judge, and then the other judges in the chain of responsibility, who followed the case. Secondly, chaos is also due to, paradoxically, believe it or not, respect and application of the law. We are witnesses, all of us in Serbia, that a number of misdemeanor judges have been resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice and Local Self-Government, imagine, please, that paradox, because they respected the law. In this way, in our legal system, in our country, in our legal history, if I may say, an unprecedented case has been introduced, that any future power may abolish a verdict, or punish those who have implemented the law, calling for examples before that. The chaos in the judiciary is also due to the permanent pressure exerted by the executive authority on the work of the judicial authorities. First of all, unfortunately, people are accused, convicted, the content of criminal charges appears in public, so that the people of the judiciary are in advance in front of the final act. And now, please imagine one situation, if before that was the choice of people by DOS, what these people can do and what they do if in public before that, by the leaders of DOS, the verdicts are made. Court decisions shall be commented and challenged by the representatives of the executive authority. And finally, even judges, who judge individual cases, are also challenged in public by executive officials, both professionally and morally. Starting with all this, the fact is that the rule of law in Serbia only exists declaredly and that nothing will fundamentally change until such a relationship between the executive and the judiciary is changed. Until this is removed, no appointment and resolution will be complete and will lead to the strengthening of the rule of law, which should be the objective of this process. We even have a situation where, compared to the chaos that exists in the judiciary, individual judges, people who obviously look at the legal system and in justice and justice, even apply for early departure from justice, whether with the intention of dealing with a lawyer, or some other business, not wanting to make their profession, to subdue their knowledge to the interests of daily politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15787	He has the word National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic (second call).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems you are insufferable to discuss in front of the public the resolution of the judges, and you have ruled out the TV transmission from this session. During his time, Mr. Marsicanin found this button, demonstrated democracy, said: From now on TV is going to the assembly forever, but Mrs. Micic apparently found that button again or Ceda Jovanovic went into television technique and said, ie. Order - turn off the TV transmission. We have warned you even when you adopt this non-democratic Rules of Procedure that the Assembly is slowly but surely entering the dictatorship, and today here you are also demonstrating your democracy; and this democracy, which you are conducting, has a different name, is called dictatorship. Well, you're lucky for such democracy, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-13-0.u15789	Is anyone else answering for a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search and we move on to a decision. Before we move to a decision on the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of Judge and President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that, according to Article 175(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the choice, i.e. the resolution or termination of the office of each Constitutional Court judge individually, by a secret vote, unless it decides to make the vote public. I therefore propose that the National Assembly decide on the termination of the office of Judge and President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia by a public vote - using an electronic voting system. I am putting the motion to the vote to decide by public vote, by using the electronic system. For 114, no one, abstentioned one, voted nine, a total of 124 MPs, which means we don't have a quorum. We need to determine the quorum. I ask all Members of the Parliament present to insert identification cards into the MPs. No quorum. I'm giving a ten-minute break. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen, please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. We can't keep working. I'm scheduled to resume the session Monday at 10.00 hours.
