ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6115	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't want to say anything terrible last night, and there was no need for you to get up and leave the O.R. I just wanted to point out a few facts. Namely, since the president of the National Assembly reminded me of about ten and a half minutes during my presentation, that it was time for me to finish my speech, I spoke about 11 minutes, and in those 11 minutes I tried to say everything I thought about the bill that the government put before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that I've been speaking quite appropriately, talking about all the problems that it brings to itself the adoption of such a law. I didn't say anything besides the subject unless someone thought it was because I mentioned Mr. Obradovic at one point, because he is the signator of the bill. I didn't get off the subject. Then came a man who never or at least I can't remember, didn't show up after this pay phone, never said anything, never prepared a discussion under any single law, never prepared a single amendment, but therefore found it appropriate to resent the MPs, first of all, the Serbian Radical Party, even though the party's name was not well remembered, to resent them for talking about something else. I just want to point a few things out to him and the others. Opposition MPs, primarily Serbian Radical Party MPs in the National Assembly, are preparing for discussions, seriously preparing for parliamentary debates, are serious. Whether someone likes it or doesn't like it, it's his private business. But if anyone wants, they can always turn out to be MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. You've noticed that we're very correct about this, and every time we want to mention the one who wants to go out on the line. So we're not running away from it and we're not hiding from, possibly, someone's different opinion or possible insults to our own account, etc. In any case, I think that such behaviour was completely unnecessary and that Serbia's citizens were not to be afforded such a thing. I would just say, about this law, that it would be better if he were a fellow MP, I apologize for not remembering his name, that he noticed something in the discussion about the bill I was talking about, because the bill itself is really something that is brutally trampled by the Constitution, and that is much more important than his petty remarks and from the fact that he is having a hard time criticising DOS. Criticism at the expense of the government will always be, as the government will always answer to the opposition. (President: Time) Sometimes it'll be meaningful, sometimes pointless, sometimes it'll be in a normal and usual political way, sometimes it'll be too fierce or excessive use of force, if you want. Anyway, I think it's something that's normal in a parliamentary life. I call on you to deal with the opposition MPs correctly in the future, so that you can respond at any moment to what they say about this pay phone, but in this way, the way you did it yesterday, it doesn't make any sense, either with your scream and someone being upset. I wasn't upset at all, and I didn't throw anything at anyone. It seems to me that you all notice that you're going out for this pay phone, so it wouldn't make any sense for you to invent it in such a way as to deceive the public. As for Serbian radicals, we will talk about what is on the agenda, about what the people are interested in and what we consider to be of interest to the MPs in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6116	The word has a folk MP Stanko Kovacevic, followed by Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6117	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the DOS MPs of the Democratic Serbia Movement, to whom I belong, have accepted the suggestion that unless it is necessary, we do not take much part in the debates on proposed legislative projects, in order to make our contribution to the efficiency of the work of this assembly session. But discussions by individual MPs from opposition groups force people to come out for this pay phone even though they would not talk about a specific legislative project, to point to certain inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the stages of opposition MPs. On account of this legal project, I felt that there was no need to go out and talk about it, because it regulates one substance in a non-regulatory work, it wants to correct the mistakes in the personal incomes of workers of the government and public services. The legislative project wants to seduce order, and in particular to seduce the control of budget spending, as all workers employed by the state administration and public services, 420,000, receive salaries from the budget. Where now is the lack of logic and indiscipline of the approach of opposition MPs, when everyone in the order criticises such a legal project and all the legal projects we've had so far? We do not expect opposition group MPs to accept our legal projects. We expect them to understand what is the essence of the draft legislative projects and what is the essence of DOS and DOS government policy in changing the inherited situation, the extremely bad one, in Serbia. We also don't ask for a lot of correctness, but it's enough just to understand the essence and to advocate your views on legal proposals, if nothing else, at least correctly here, and not to throw everything into your discussions and anything that has nothing to do with legal projects. I came out for this pay phone precisely because MPs from opposition groups, and from the Radical Party, and I am particularly surprised by those from the Socialist Party of Serbia, and a special inspiration for this speaker to come out to me by the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Bane Ivkovic, and I am sorry that he is not here today, to hear what I want to point out. For this speaker, all opposition MPs shed crocodile tears and show great concern for the fate of the working class under this DOS authority. (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. It's absolutely a theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6118	Don't throw it away, it's not a topic, but I'll warn you when the time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6119	In doing so, they forget that in their performances, they have not said a single word about their own responsibility for all that they have led to. When Bane Ivkovic honors us here yesterday as we have to worry about creating the possibility that certain officials in different municipalities, different services, can be rewarded, conditionally speaking, and indefinitely, give a very strange example, and that example of the Bačka Palanka municipality. He says, "Why wouldn't a successful president of the Bačka Palanka municipality, because he contributed to the development, and that too, receive much more pay than the limiting elements of this bill don't give it? Then he gave me the association that one of the very successful presidents of the Municipality of Backo Palanka, the jogurt of the revolution, Mr. Curtis, was appointed as director of the Federal Customs Directorate, so that he could reward himself to the will.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6120	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6121	Excuse me, Mr. President, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6122	To stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6123	Yeah, and this is the topic, because it's about rewarding successful community presidents in line with the proposed legislative project. One of such rewards was to place himself on the job, to reward himself to the will, to reward his like-minded, to reward cars, billions of dinars and millions of marks according to his own discretion. Is that rewarding in line with the legal project? We, gentlemen, have not made you out of power to tell us such stories, but to answer precisely for what you have done and to make it impossible for you, not just for you, but for those of us who are in power, to give you more opportunity for such behavior. That's why I answered for the discussion. Don't mind me, but because of the nature of your efforts, you must go with examples of inconsistencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6124	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6125	I'd just like to take advantage of the line on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. You've now had a chance to see a typical DOS representative behind this pay phone. There are many people who in 1990, until the arrival of the multi-party system and Milosevic to power, the house had nothing to catch. Now they belong to the richest people in Serbia and go out for a pay phone to laminate over Serbia's fate in the last 10 years. If it's immoral, it's immoral. You, gentlemen of the opposition, whom Milosevic for 10 years did not mind getting rich, at least you should not attack the system that Milosevic has created in the last 10 years. The system was created by rich people who are now in DOS, who finance DOS and who are setting up affairs, so that people who reach the source of crime must be removed from the public political scene. I hope we get a chance to talk more about it when we start on real crime. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6126	Replica, Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6127	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, there are no members of the government, so I cannot greet them, from fellow Kovacevic, we heard the grades in these assessments and the SPS was normally mentioned. I claim that when we're socialists, we absolutely don't stand. Please, in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from Articles 204 to 204, the rights and obligations of the Members of Parliament are prescribed. The second member of the Rules of Procedure, 90th and some I do not remember, correctly regulates what the Rules of Procedure considers to be not the work of the MP. I call on anyone in the assembly to say whether any of the SPS MPs in the last three and a few months, as far as we are working together, have violated the Rules of Procedure in a way that has compromised the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're... Please, sir, come out and tell me what you have. It's a common method, that you like to talk from the bench. Go out and tell the citizens of Serbia what your political position is and what you think about the specific issue. From the O.R.: Thieves. ) No comment is needed. Please, one more thing, for the few months we've been working together, I think there were a few dozen draft laws. We Socialists, by every or almost every law, have made our remarks, which in our opinion are absolutely constructive and which had their own meaning, and hopefully understanding for the citizens of Serbia. If that understanding was not here from the congregation majority and regarding the fate of our amendments, of course I expect that the citizens of Serbia will have an understanding of what we have done here. The last thing Mr. Kovacevic mentioned was that we don't understand the essence of their laws. Maybe that's the way it is. We obviously understand these laws in our own way, and our way of trying to present what we think about these laws to the citizens of Serbia. Why am I saying this? Because we were faced with a situation where we had a law of one to two members. We had a situation where the same legal explanations were used in multiple laws. We had a situation where explanations were used sometimes for the same situations. So we also tried to show the assembly majority and the citizens of Serbia what the SPS's position is on concrete issues, without insulting any of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time. We will continue to do our job and continue. If you don't understand, please, and I expect the citizens of Serbia to understand what we are doing and how we are doing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6128	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. I only ask the people's messengers who are against insults not to insult themselves, if they are against being thrown out of place, that they do not earn themselves, which are against shouting and screaming, that they do not make noises or profit themselves. When overstepping the agenda theme, they don't come out on their own. Please, we all have the same criteria in respect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6129	Mr. President, I'm saying I won't insult anyone. In accordance with the provisions of Article 95, I ask that the National Assembly be heard about the violation of Article 101, this is the last position, and the MP, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, I think that is the name of the man, has cast a very inappropriate and ugly insult heard by all the MPs. It's not the first time. So I ask the National Assembly to make a statement about it. As Mr. Zarko Obradovic spoke, he quite loudly threw: thieves. It would be, dear fellow, another round of applause for a song that slowly but surely dies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6130	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the gentleman called me and said I was insultingly throwing away the word "snaps." First of all, they don't have a good hearing. I didn't say "the thieves." Speaking of thieves, I'll remind you that in this country, the biggest thieves have never worked against the law. They passed and wrote laws. The party member who went out here to talk really belonged to that party, who did everything the thieves wanted from the law. So our biggest thieves weren't working against the law, they were ordering or writing laws. If I had thrown away, I would have apologized to the thieves, why I compared them to such a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6132	What should I put to the vote? To give a warning? I can't put that to a vote. I put Mr. Obradovic's proposal to vote, stop throwing people away, why are you so impatient, there's going to be a choice again, what's wrong with you? What do you need? I would like to put to the vote Mr Obradovic (Baralic, sorry) to give Mr Rističic a warning about the throw-off. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the president decides, not the National Assembly. I ask him what he wants us to decide. I'm putting on a vote on his request. I can't give a warning about something I haven't heard. I can put to the vote only or what the MP is asking under the Rules of Procedure or that the Assembly declares that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure due to a warning, which is practically a statement of notice. That's what I did. I just defined it differently. So, I would like to put to the vote Mr Baralic's proposal that the Assembly declare that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure in article 101 because of the failure to give notice to the MP, Mr Ristic, and because of his offensive expression to the SPS parliamentary group. I'm putting you on a plea and I'm asking you to vote. For 57, against 81, with 26 abstentions, it did not vote 11, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly, perhaps because of the lack of hearing, has not accepted your proposal. Mr. Pelevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6133	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice president, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I was very uncomfortablely surprised by the discussion of my esteemed colleague, Mr. Stanko Kovacevic, who spoke of the work of MPs from all opposition groups indeed expressed an opinion that was incompatible with his personality, as I greatly respect Mr. Stanko Kovacevic. I did not recognize myself in this, Mr Kovacevic, but I believe that the quality of this assembly is to hear opinions that differ from the opinion of the ruling coalition in this House. If Mr Kovacevic or the other DOS MPs don't think so, then it only leads to autocraticism and I don't think that's good. I think the quality of democracy and this assembly is if we all talk differently about legal projects, with the best intention of improving them in various ways, or to return to the government in the process or by adopting the opposition amendment, they improve to the benefit of all Serbian citizens, regardless of whether these citizens voted for the ruling coalition MPs or for the current opposition. I would just like to warn Mr Kovacevic, but also all the other MPs that there are three opposition groups in parliament, the SPS, the SRS and the SS, so please don't always equalize us with everyone. Unfortunately, we were not in power, and we wanted to be in power and we want to be in power, Mr Kovacevic, and I hope that one day it will come. If he doesn't come, it will be the will of the citizens, and we won't suffer much, but I ask you to pay attention to what's called a notorous fact in the future. Yesterday, since I was appointed as one of the MPs who speaks of this bill, I spoke, and today I will talk about that this legal project is not good. It is simply because, if adopted, these are given really great powers to the Serbian government, and the Serbian Parliament is placed in the position of the Serbian government's executive body. On the contrary, it should be the opposite, but unfortunately not. If a member of the 3rd legislative project on the salaries of state authorities and public services and a member of the 5th legislative project is taken into account, it turns out that the basis for the payment of salaries in state and public services is determined by the Serbian Government. Article 5 speaks of the classification of the pay groups of employees and the determination of the coefficients also being determined by the Serbian government. This means that we are putting the Serbian government on a pedestal of the Supreme and Legislative Executive Authority in the Republic of Serbia, which I hope you too think DOS gentlemen are not well. It is not good to put on the pedestal of the country's supreme commander, the Serbian government, because she is not. I hope you all agree with me that the government is divided into three parts, into legislative, executive and judicial power. By adopting this law, the Supreme Authority is the Serbian government, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the National Assembly regulates its work, organisation and way of exercising the rights and duties of MPs. So the Serbian government cannot determine the salaries of the MPs, our coefficients and cannot determine the salary of vice presidents and president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is not a custom in other democratic countries of Europe and the world. Also a member of the same Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, number 90, which speaks of government ingenuity, does not mention anywhere that the government's function and ingenuity is that it determines the basis and coefficients of state authorities and public services. It's really not recorded in democratic practice. I just wanted to do it yesterday, and I want to warn today that we are disdaining and discrediting the Serbian Parliament and the citizens who voted for the various parliamentary groups in this assembly. However, according to the Constitution of Serbia, the Assembly is the supreme legislative body and the highest home in this country. If we want to give the Parliament's powers to the Serbian government, then there is centralisation that I hear you from DOS are fighting both well and positively, if that's true. But if we adopt this legal project, then it means that it's not honest and that government is given really great authority. Yesterday, I suggested that today I propose that there be a solution and a compromise that the Assembly still determines the basis and coefficients by making it possible for the competent Finance Committee of the Republic of Serbia to determine the basis and pay coefficients in the state bodies, which are elected. There's a big difference between the selected organs and the placed organs. The President of the Republic of Serbia is elected under the Constitution, the MPs are elected and therefore, the government that we have chosen to determine our coefficients and base. That's all I've talked about, and I think it's a good compromise and a good solution for the National Assembly's committee, the Finance Committee, which is in its jurisdiction, to establish the basis, the coefficients, and that we as the National Assembly accept it, because how we will behave as MPs or president of the Republic if we depend on the goodwill of the Serbian Government, which we have chosen. It is a conflict of jurisdiction and it is that if we adopt this law, then we will enthroned the Serbian government as the uncuted highest and legislative and executive body. I apologize, Mr. President, if I have partially misused my right to go out for this speaker as a representative of the parliamentary group and for speaking to Mr. Kovacevic, as well as other members of the DOS. I just want to tell you that it's good to hear in this assembly opinions that are different from your opinions. As I recall, and I was already an MP when you were an opposition, you fought to and how your opinions were heard and your opinions and your amendments were respected. There have been cases like this. Unfortunately, in this new assembly, no amendments to any opposition MP have been adopted, and believe me, there have been really good, well-intentioned and very useful amendments that would improve proposed legislative projects, but if you think that you should go further into centralised and give up democracy, then you should probably explain that to all those Serbian voters who chose you. Once again, I apologize if I have partially misused my right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6134	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6135	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I tried to confront you yesterday with facts that are far more important in themselves than the remarks whether the Government has the right to determine the basis and then to appoint the President of the Assembly a coefficient for the Republic's MP. On 1 January 1998, the Law on Salaries in State Authorities ceased to apply, and the Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities by which wages were defined could not be applied, given that it was adopted in 1991 and that there was, meanwhile, dramatic changes that made it impossible to apply it. So what's a characteristic, and that's the first, of this legislative proposal, is that order is being seduced in a very important area. Another important feature, which results in this type of criticism, is the fact that it is impossible to complete the quality systematization of 420 000 employees to which this law applies. By which the true director of one school can have three times as much pay as the director of another school with the same school supplies, the same years of work experience, the same calling. By which the real director of one hospital has a salary of 12,000 dinars, and the director of another hospital has a salary of 70,000 dinars. In what way can the congregation regulate such a complicated area, such as the one we are talking about today. That is why the government has made it very clear that it will define the basics after the systematization in this area has been completed. Systematization is for 420,000 jobs that have never been done for. As a congregation, we cannot do this, but today we can discuss whether we will adopt a law that gives something greater freedom to the government or not. Why doubt the government and why doubt the resolute ministries, when we gave our crown trust the day we voted in that government. If the government has said it will introduce a system of justice, social justice, in this area of its operation, I think we have a duty to support it. This is the incentive of such an effort. There are terrible differences in the incomes of employees in state authorities and there is no reason to support such a thing, especially because it is not regulated by law, and if we want to pass a quality law, then we cannot do it here in the Assembly, insisting on bases and coefficients, because such a thing cannot be the subject of our work, since it is in itself an area that should be arranged in such a way, and that it is too wide. So the government has made it very clear that it will define the basis, and the basis will be defined after talks, negotiations, with trade unions, after talks and negotiations that will be conducted within the government itself, in line with the potential, above all those budgetary ones that exist in the government. It has often been mentioned here that the government has made a commitment towards educational workers, and criticises that such a thing will not be respected because of the transition from net to gross wage. That is why there is a need for the government to talk to the unions again, and only after these talks are held, will the government define the basis by a regulation, as it stands in this law. The government will define the coefficient for those people it chooses and sets. The State authority itself will determine the coefficient, i.e. the competent person of the state body for employees of state authorities. So, for the coefficients of MPs, we have the President of the Assembly who, in accordance with the law that we are adopting here, will determine the amount of our salaries, but it's not our pay topic. The topic is a huge injustice that exists at this time in the public sector and the subject is the fact that nothing in this sector has been done in accordance with the law. There is no law and we are introducing a law in the area of lawlessness that is in itself different from what is defined by the Constitution, but only because there is a 10-year difference between the time in which things in this country were happening in accordance with the Constitution and with the time in which we live today. It's not the only constitutional illogicality we can perceive today. There are very different, more serious and dramatic ones, and I therefore call on you not to recognise in this bill the government's intention to violate the Constitution, not to recognise the government's intention to subdue parliament, but to recognise first and foremost the government's intention to protect the interests of public sector employees, who are themselves unregulated by any law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6136	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, followed by Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6137	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a little embarrassing for me, after all these stories that were kind of jumping out of the agenda, to continue with this discussion, but I think exactly what I'm about to say should put this discussion back on track. The reason for my report is multiple. First of all, I want to say that the Soviet Union is not responsible for the fact that in the previous period, which is the past few years, this matter has not been arranged, but that does not mean that the Soviet Union does not want to participate further in the creation and development of these regulations that need to be applied. The basic inspiration for the announcement was given to me by Mr. Ceda Jovanovic yesterday, when one moment he impressed me, when he said - we must arrange this area. That seemed quite logical. But then he kept talking on behalf of the government. We government, we government and government have to fix this, rule that. However, we need to be serious and we need to be reasonable and we need to understand our role. We're a legislative body, we have to arrange this matter, this congregation, and I see no reason to take away her intelligence in this way. As far as this matter is concerned, we can remind ourselves, we have forgotten Mr. Djelic, who in his presentations several times after this speaker, told us on television several times about paying classes, about justice, about equating conditions in different areas of public life and in different areas financed from budgets and from funds. It's normal for all of us to agree on that, and we need to sort it out, but we're a little bit of a stop. This is how we edit the part called budget spending, and in some ways we talked about the previous part of how to get these funds, because I think there's one deadlock and we haven't done much to stabilise this inflow into the budget and the funds, and that's normal, that's the way to bring the economy back to life and start working. After these opening remarks, I have a few clean, professional, legal objections, and the first is unconstitutional. You yourself have heard the words that this is not in accordance with the Constitution. We've had in practice a case to hear that there's a slight violation of regulations, and this would be some mild violation of the Constitution, which as a term shouldn't exist. So if we have this constitution that applies, we should respect it. If we need to change the Constitution, and a lot of other things, we should go in order. Therefore, the argument that it is necessary to work for practical reasons and to break the Constitution certainly cannot defend itself. It would be a lot of trouble for one who should explain it all to us. This law, i.e. the draft law, also does not comply with Article 158(2). The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, as it says no public service regulations apply to the work of the funds. If this law is passed, this member of the PIO Act should be put out of force. Then, we have one situation that has not been resolved by many dilemmas about the adoption of such a law, which is practically what opens something, which is what happens to our ministers' promises, we have listened to them both in the media and here in the Assembly, that we will have an independent judiciary. These statements promised that judges would be privileged, that they would have good salaries, social security, to be independent, we promised the police who would be unsuspecting, which would be invulnerable, etc., to introduce order and deal with crime. Here is the Minister of Health, having great trouble returning his doctors from private clinics, and providing them with reputation and honor, and providing them with the dignity to do such important jobs, taking care of the health of citizens, to be taken care of socially, precisely because many categories of start from health, education, culture became social categories, and not those categories that enjoyed great reputation in this society. I'd say one more thing. When you look at this text of the law, you see that something is missing. This is a law that contains some principled provisions on how to implement it, practically all comes down to giving the Government the authority to determine the heights of the coefficients, etc. However, if we take a closer look at what is wrong with this law, we see that this is the second part that we have seen very well here in the previous days, that is, this law has no sanctions. There's only disposition, a description of how something should be done, but there's no sanctions at all. There is no regulation that applies in a way that is applied without responsibility by automation. This job of determining wages, payouts, respect for everything that's written here will be done by some people who are made of flesh and blood, who have a name and a name. Therefore, this law needed to be precise and clear in determining the question of responsibility. Who's responsible, if any of these examples we've heard before appear in practice. For example, in one municipality, the president has five times as much salary as in another, that the president of the Vojvodina Assembly has twice as much salary as the president of the Serbian Parliament, etc. So someone will be responsible, whoever signed it, did it, accounted, and paid. So, first of all, this law is not complete and the fundamental objection comes down to this, or I would also point out that the issue of decentralisation, which is practically already accepted in principle, according to the mood that the government has in this assembly, and this question of decentralisation, or when we start to depose the central authorities, and to transfer these powers to local, regional, or already applied, will bring many new issues and open many dilemmas. Therefore, the proposal of the Serbian Unity Party is that the law should be withdrawn from the procedure, that it should be done both in a professional and resonative, logical sense. First of all, I think this law is necessary, extremely necessary, but this proposal does not have a transitional grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6138	There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the very formation of our phantom government, which you have declared to be expert, we have seen only some characters with socks over their heads, who arrest and harass Serbia. It's not like stockings are disguised as being kidnapped for great expertise. Just laugh. I'm waiting for you to calm down, for the president to change my water, he forgot that custom. Since the formation of the assembly majority, or voting machine, only serves as a decor to this government, where the parliamentary majority only votes, that is, obeying the government's orders. I guess the government should execute the decisions of the National Assembly and answer for its work to the National Assembly. What is particularly annoying is that no minister attends the meetings of the National Assembly, which should account for his work, or may be kidnapped as top experts. With the help of the media, I'm going to try to do a noble piece of work and put one of the top experts back in the congregation bench, who got lost, I don't know where. I also own his photograph, so I ask the media to publish, and who knows to report (shows a picture of Mickey Mouse). I ask all those who know something about the gentleman, or this boy, to deliver the information to the address Slobodan Janjic, MP, Vladic's Han, the prize follows. His discovery is urgent because of the promise that out of 420,000 state administration workers, 15% and 60,000 will be fired, respectively. Turns out the Chancellor is lying, there's going to be a painful discharge, so it's urgent to complete the list as soon as possible. Citizens should know that you are firing everyone who is not in DOS parties throughout Serbia, not taking into account that you are also firing pregnant women, women on maternity leave and people who need more years...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6140	Mr. Janjic, will this congregation ever experience that you ever speak about the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6141	And who am I talking to?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6142	Please move to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6143	Should I speak to Mr. Chad? Who?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6144	Come on, once you're pleasantly surprised, you're talking about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6145	And you don't interrupt me and order me that water at last. Here, I'll wait for you to change my water. I was looking for her five minutes ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6146	Mr. Janjic, I warn you that according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6147	I'm warning you to bring me more water, so I can wet my throat so I can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6148	I already warned you once.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6149	If I have to talk, here's to talk. Mr. Obradovic's mistake is that he did not bypass the mafia lobby that was under the control of JUL, and is now under the control of Djindjic, Batic and Mihajlovic. All of you, gentlemen, according to the JUL's manner, are well paid to participate in all possible boards of directors, so you are not interested in paying classes, because you sign the payrolls in multiple places. Mr. Chado doesn't fall from the sky. Tell us how you bought your new one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6150	The word is made by the MP Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6151	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not an important topic of our debate, not even the events behind this topic are being commented on by the Assembly speaker. More important are those people who are thus trying to send citizens a message. If, Mr. Janjic, the message was - blow up people's jeeps, it's bad. If the message was -- it's everybody who's got the jeep, it's bad. My answer to you is -- here you go, all my apartments, all my vehicles, find one board of directors in which I'm a member, and we won't wait for Mr. Seselj to tell us -- here you are, my apartments, which I took from this country, here's my vehicles, which I took from this country, here's my board of directors, where I've been sitting for years, ruining, say, law school, or Belgrade University. Find one fact when you're talking about all the amazing things you said about this pay phone. Think of the messages you send to the public, because surely the citizens, voting for you, voted for something quite different from what you said today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6152	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6153	You have injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, which refers to the president of the SRS, who has been excluded from the session, has been injured and insulted by the entire SRS. I have the right to answer, don't just think that this is all some very serious imaginary scenario, that you're shutting us all down from the session, and then you're talking about us. It is not right that Mr Jovanovic, unrecorded in Serbia's public practice, in Serbia's public life, without any sign of him, except for some stories, which will likely be checked soon, that he is talking about Vojislav Seselj, and when he talks about Vojislav Seselj, who is not there, to tell lies. They will remain to believe Serbian citizens that Vojislav Seselj has apartments, which he received from the state. (Glasses - you got it too. I've got a very nice apartment, please come see if I didn't steal it from someone? It is not right for Mr Jovanovic to talk about the cars that Vojislav Seselj stole. The car driven by the president of the SRS has a traffic permit issued to the same owner, on which the car is now driven by Ceda Jovanovic. What's the difference? It owns Serbia's MUP, and that jeep you tore apart, so you can see there's no weapons in it, that's going to fly into the government building, that we kill the ministers, and that it owns Serbia's MPP, all the cars that serve Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic these days. What difference does it make that Cedomir Jovanovic is president of the parliamentary group? So is Vojislav Seselj. It's all the system in this country, and the government, and the opposition, they're part of this system, and they're both doing the same job, the parliamentary work. Why would the head of the parliamentary majority in the assembly be under the protection of the state and not the head of the opposition? Find it for me in the world practice of democratic countries, that the government protects its representatives, and that other attacks do not allow them to have everything they have and those who are in power. I was an observer of the presidential election in Russia, when the opponents were Jeljcin and Žirinski. A year before that, by winning the elections, Gjirinski achieved a parliamentary majority in Duma. Expected to - Well, I mean, if you don't have a head and a brain, don't throw it away, try to listen to this, I can't tell you -- listen to something to learn, but it would be good to listen, there you are, old people, who have never heard anything in your life. [[growls]] Listen now. There was no telling who was going to win that election. All day long, on election day, I was with Vladimir Žirinski, who was accompanied by three police cars and 15 police officers armed with automatics. It shouldn't have happened to the opposition's presidential candidate. The state was responsible for that. And here, the state has one president of the opposition parliamentary group, who is at large, who dares not tell the authorities everything he thinks of them, and it occurred to you to fully strip him, so some fool could kill him. Of course, he's right, Mr. Jovanovic, only in one day -- no one should be forced into any act, a terrorist act, anyway, and don't give God exactly the job that someone has the intention of getting killed and having someone's property blow up. Here, I agree, whenever you discover such a punishment, whatever punishment you predict, we've voted here in the Assembly. But think about it, it's impossible that, while you were in opposition, you didn't feel what the government was supposed to do towards the opposition. Forget hate and revenge, lead this country from the day you won the way you promised to lead it. Put criminals in jail, but don't treat people who aren't criminals to apply the methods applied to criminals. If you prove to me that Vojislav Seselj is a criminal, he should not be driven by a state car, but only if you prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6154	There's a word from MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6155	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Article 96(4). It is said that, if the president of the National Assembly permits the requested replica, the MP seeking the replica may request that the National Assembly be declared without a search. The previous MP asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Of course he spoke in the name of the replica. Therefore, Mr. President, you had no right to allow him a replica, until the Assembly spoke of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6156	I didn't let him speak in line, I let him speak in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6157	Apparently, he's replicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6158	Obviously, and that's why he's been warned, but that's why Mr. Jovanovic got the right to replicate, otherwise he wouldn't have a replica. Now he took advantage of it, but, you know, when those circles open, I can't think about it. Here, he has the right to replicate. You know, about how the Rules of Procedure is applied, we all have to think together, when you speak, when you cause replicas, etc., and not just the one who presides the session to evaluate it. It's a joint job. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law of Payments in State Authorities and Public Services is closely linked to the Government, which is not here. Why - because this law gives great authority, that is, to the government. So, in this case, the employer of 420,000 employees in public services and state bodies is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, in order to be able to talk about this law, we need to talk about an employer, who will respect and enforce this law. The government's employer speaks of Article 3, where the law is spoken of, that is, the way the government will determine the payment and calculation of the bases, and Article 5, where payment groups and coefficients are classified in the calculation of payments, which is also determined by the Government. So if we agree that the subject matter of this law is government, then we must, of course, talk first of all about government, so that we can talk about how these laws will be implemented and whether they will be implemented as they are written or there are other intentions, which are not foreseen here by law. I really thought we'd been through the worst laws so far. But now I see that they are worse than they are worse, and this one is one of the worst ones, because he is obviously talking about centralisation in this society, not decentralisation, which DOS swore in the pre-election campaign to Serbian citizens. Because this previous regime was totalitarian, they were absoluteists. This law says that this current government wants to outdo its predecessors. If we're talking about who's authorized to enforce this law, then, first of all, we're talking about the government and the Prime Minister. But we'd be happy to have him as prime minister. His performances in the last 100 days say he has surpassed prime minister's authority. He even became a sheik. He introduced a monopoly and believes that he is the sheik, the owner of the oil fields, at least, and that everything that belongs to him even with what the sheik has, so that's the more beautiful female side, that's all the property of the sheik Zoran Djindjic. Since the gentleman was wandering around the white world, he saw that he might do well to be a little more modern head of state, so he wanted to become an Chancellor. He didn't stay here. His affinities grew, for he had gathered around him a ruler.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6160	Shall we move to the agenda? It's been four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6161	I'm just talking about what the Prime Minister's powers are. We must gradually come to what this law provides here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6162	You came from Arab countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6163	So we reach the emperor who has his authority and who will enforce these laws, enforce the law of Article 4 and the law of Article 5. But it happens that there are insubordination amongst the authorities, and then as in that story of Emperor Trojan, one of the owners couldn't keep it, dig a hole, and you know how that story goes, and it played. The people are playing in that piano, in Emperor Zoran's mountain of crime. Then what happens is that there are affairs being created, that citizens are being thrown into the eyes of dust and fog, and they are passing laws like these that are being proposed to Parliament today, here in today's session. So this bill of wages and state authorities should be implemented by such a government, with such an emperor and with such a authority. That's why we Serbian radicals have no confidence, first of all, because this law is passed by the Constitution and the law, which he cruelly violates those laws, and at the same time it takes 420,000 employees in these institutions, who are subject to this law, to be in the hands of such people that I have spoken of. That's why it was very important to know who would enforce this law. Furthermore, I find this law humiliating, not only for workers in the Assembly, but also for all workers working in the state bodies, in all those bodies that individual ministers, who have not proven that they have proposed good laws, will now determine and design underpants, workers who work in certain ministries. We also heard here that the coefficient will be agreed with the union. Now, just now, we heard from the president of the DOS parliamentary group that it will be the president of the assembly. We don't even know who's going to do it right now. If, as was said here yesterday, they will agree with the unions, then the government will likely negotiate with itself, because in the government there is an ex of the union president who, unfortunately, has not yet completed his studies and, of course, will not understand what a collective contract means and will sign anything that will set him up by Zoran Djindjic, Vladan Batic or Dusan Mihajlovic. We've already seen these submersibles. So, similar bribery appears to be this law which, as I said, is humiliating and I am happy that I am not subject to this law, that I am not an official of the state administration of Serbia, or of a public undertaking, which would be subject to these repressive measures that all government officials and public services expect. That is why I propose that instead of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Zoran Djindjic dealing with affairs around Vuk Obradovic, they take this law and read it, they bring minds to those who earn here, to tailor and to keep them underpants, and that this law withdraws from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6164	The People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic has the word, and after him, the Messenger Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6165	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services is so well-conceived that it has very little concrete written in it. Of some ten members, six regulate the basic introductory provisions, and two of what is abolished and when the law enters into force, so that the proposal for this law does not establish basic relations with respect to salaries in state authorities and public services, nor does at least some initial value or orientation basis for determining somewhere 420,000 employees who receive salaries from the budget and also social security funds have been established. This must be another law that was done and presented to this assembly by someone's orders and must be passed before the privatisation law comes. The proposed legal act is a return to the distant past, a time of administrative socialism, and it is under the Constitution of the FNRJ, which was brought immediately after World War II, a period of pay grade, which speaks of the real value of this government, that it, with the authority of this assembly, through regulations and regulations by certain ministers, will rule this Serbia. Also, this law brings back the equation to the public service and the principle -- that I can't pay me as little as I do, or the worse principle -- the radio, not the radio, plays your radio. It is not clear to me that the minister of justice and local self-government is not present at first or during the debate on this law, and he participated in the debate under other laws and we all know what kind of discussions he had and not even the vice-president of the government who delivered this law to us on behalf of the Government. It seems to me at this point, and it was obvious in these last elections in December, that there were two congregations here and there were two elections, one for the government, and the other for the Assembly. It's two parallel organs right now. The importance of this law is extremely great for all Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, for two reasons. First, the law directly defines the material and social status of over 420,000 employees, i.e. over 1,000,000 residents in our Republic. This number of employees depends on the lives and work of over ten million people in Serbia. Of those in maternity care, only born, preschooled in kindergarten, primary, secondary school, higher education, health care, administration, up to the third age and late age. In the draft of this law, the government has confused some pots, so it is forgotten that the Prime Minister has proposed the President of the Republic, the government has been elected by the Parliament, from the MPs elected by the people. This law put the Government above all the abovementioned authorities, that it was worth the work of the President of the State and MPs of the Assembly without direct interference and influence on their part, and as stated in Article 5. The law. It writes - this member is prescribed that the classification of the paying groups and the coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am not personally interested at all, but it does seem cynically that on the basis of this member, the government will determine the coefficients for the president of the state, the president of the assembly, the MPs and the members of the government, all the way to the cleaning lady. Gentlemen, what a risk it is to accept on the blank of this law, without any global range and framework, without any figures at least the lowest and highest and any range of coefficients, then prescribing the basis for paying contributions, not the pay coefficient. Speaking of basics, just one note which is why this health insurance bill hasn't come up yet. I think that the government is certainly trying to find a solution to what we have done with our good intentions and discussions through the Employment Act and through the Law on PIO, Mrs. Matkovic has indeed tried in her own way, to resolve together. I hope that only after the resolution and discovery of the basic concepts of profit, that question will be resolved. Also, the question of the net profit principle, the gross profit principle that is now mentioned here, what is gross earnings, what is gross wages, what is the gross principle of accounting for personal incomes, and what is the net principle. These are basic terms that need to be resolved in order for these laws to be adopted. That's not the only problem with coefficients. The problem is that the coefficient also contains bonuses on the salary. The past work, for example, for each start year of work, and what's right so far, and a warm meal and a regression will be by coefficient. Who has the coefficient without saying stomach, the pay will have less food coefficient and vice versa. And only a year's vacation, directors and cleaners, young or young and old, and then little children, and then they'll be in coefficient and what else won't affect it. Young moms, little kids will have a higher coefficient. Working in the municipality of Valjevo 17 years, when it was the authority of the municipalities, and now that local self-government, and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Dusan Mihajlović, at the time was the chairman of the Executive Board of the Municipality of Valjevo, and we conducted an analytical evaluation of jobs, the complexity of jobs, the responsibility and the conditions of work countless times, through many documents and after long operations, we have been very difficult to round up the process for several hundred workers, and the government will complete all this in 15 days. Well done, but I don't think the Mayan salaries will be in June. Administration and public services are becoming guinea pigs again. I do not believe that this deadline will be respected by June 1st, and that the basis for the payment of contributions will be applied, and given that the policy of this government is today the adoption of the Law on PIO, and already yesterday the newspapers have published the rates of contributions, not as the Minister, has not delivered those rates here. I think this government is more and more far from what is part of the business and work in this Serbia. One hundred days goes by, and she hasn't set up three members of the Colubary County Council yet, and that's why you stopped the earthquake from being restored. Some proposed amendments to these laws are inadmissible. Where are your vice presidents taking pictures for a successful 100-day government? Only applying these coefficients is especially hot potatoes to officials who manage and directors. I have no intention of telling you about it, and from experience you'll understand it very well and quickly. Secondly, even some relevant factors for establishing the basis did not only mention a new way of determining the gross wage, and as it says in the explanation, and the law does not state it anywhere. That's where the fraud and the hunting in the dim comes in, that this principle pays the obligations, and the employees as long as they stay and cover the difference to the lowest basis for contributions they're not provided for... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... the funds in the budget. Here's another sentence, which is confirmed here. Will you finally acknowledge how much the salaries of staff in the administration and public services will be reduced until the transfer to gross earnings. I have the information, but you won't admit it until the workers get it. Some illustrations I wanted to present, I don't have time, and indeed, Mr. Minister, and yet he's gone, you're some black bird criminal for justice and local self-government and public service, and just what the employees will say in the education of their minister, health care also to their minister, and pensioners not to mention them. Finally, in this law, which was made under another constitution, there are no sanctions anywhere, and we know that the biggest problems were in the application of the previous law, which was also valid and which in some way arranged certain categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6166	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6167	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the tax system and the tax system package, which was here in the debate, are justly coordinated with the EU. If that alignment with the EU was, then these laws are in line with Cardell. And after Cardell, Cardellus. It wasn't good either, and this isn't good either. It did not work because it was simply an element of the current situation and the potential of the economy that it did not respect and is too restrictive and repressive. This is not good because it is the fluid of the communist system and already seen in communist societies. So, one of the ideologies continues, hopefully, at least we were hoping to leave these premises forever. Justice, by harmonising, and here you look more and more like law collectors, not proponents and bearers. Give me something new, give me something original and quality. It's just that it's the introduction of some order in the state. That 420,000 people ten years outside the law are getting paid, against the law, there's no law. Are we going to blame these people now, 420,000, for illegally acquiring certain funds for the past 10 years? I think this is the introduction of order in fact in some way the behavior of an elephant in a glass shop. As you move, something breaks. It's best if you stay put and nothing moves, leave things in your place, otherwise you'll make it worse than it was. Here we even heard from union leaders, an independent union leader who was so independent on the DOS list becoming an independent member of the DOS parliamentary group. The independent unionist criticises the Socialists, Ivanovic, who was with them and served them, and he probably serves the workers now, because before the workers even give their opinion in this law, she begins to talk about how it is on behalf of the workers. Here we have an independent union and their representatives, who are members of the DOS Group, who serve to protect the government from workers. It's practically something similar to the police, except that the government will soon be protecting the pendrels, and they protect the stages of the Republic Assembly. That's the difference between DOS and, say, what happened with the Socialists when it comes to the relationship between unions and the laws passed and the support of the unions with those laws. Basically, it doesn't make any difference. We have within these 420,000 people health care and education. I'm sure there's got to be a difference, than it is the state administration itself, and then there's always talk of health care being paid out of the budget. Health care professionals make their money fairly with bloody work and those poor money they get, which in the last seven months is the lowest salary they've had since you've already tied up, those 10 years. It's all depraved and so many people and their work are devalued, it's for every criticism and under every human dignity and minimum. So, enough of this talk about how these people are given something and how they're getting it out of the budget, somehow bloody money. How bloody is their profit and how bloody is their work to get that poor money? After all, take them off the budget, so give them the opportunity to make their money in a market game based on the value of their work and on their needs, how much they need in this country. Then you're saying that someone's always taking something out of that budget, so now you're going to be in some distribution to determine how much they're worth. Some frameworks can be determined, but within a health organization, these people know best who's worth it and how much money it takes. This is how you set up the system of subsistence, which is absolutely demotive for everyone who works, and also within the same specialization or the same workplace. I guess there's some difference here, too, but I guess in this country, the principle of knowledge, responsibility, expertise and results will ever begin to be respected at the end of some major work, and not all of us will cut off the same thing, so we gentlemen have seen it already in all the Bolshevik systems. Otherwise, when it comes to the order discussed, seducing order, there is no seduction of order to the administration, both the government and the leader of the DOS, Mr Djindjic. You can raise your leader to the stars, how he will see order, but there is no order that in such a way can be seduced by bureaucracy, especially in such a sensitive subject when it comes to rewarding people and getting compensation for their work. It's too sensitive for someone to use their fists to determine and seduce order. It's the order that Mirabo advised Louis JVI and his wife, Maria Antoinette, that when things get worse and when things can't get better, they need to be made worse by that stage in order to bring order, in fact, to introduce dictatorship. That's the order you're talking about. He's what you're calling on the other side, and that's the desire to go to Europe, to go to democratisation, to a mild relationship, essentially, and no. In fact, the injustices that have certainly been, you correct some of them with other injustices, and when it comes to the presidents of the municipalities and how you're going to align them in the beginning, you haven't done anything good here. I'll give you an example: you have a president of the municipality who has his first day of work and the first job as president of the municipality. He's never worked anywhere with a high school. Where is your criterion and on what criteria of knowledge, responsibilities and expertise of some previous results, this man can even manage the municipality and then talk about how you will pay the person who will have some fixed salary, unrelated to his work results, success and success. Enough lagary, gentlemen. You simply did not establish the criteria of knowledge, expertise, for setting people in certain places, and you are establishing the criteria that all will have the same. I don't think that leads to progress and it won't lead to progress. It's one glider, going back in some things because it just suits you at some point and because you don't have any other solutions, but at least, I'm sure, it's not what you talked about and what you promised, and I'm sure it can't make progress either in democratisation or in the development and progress of society.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6168	The People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6169	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to point out two things about the law. Namely, the Law on Salaries in State Authorities, "The Official Journal of the SRJ", No. 53/95 did not cease to apply from 1.1. In 1998, it is already in force, for which reasons it is necessary in the final provisions of the draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services to provide for the termination of its validity. Namely, there's a duality in the law here. The question arises whether we respect the SRJ laws or not, whether Serbia has already separated from Yugoslavia or not. If we respect the laws of our current Yugoslavia, then the Law should be abolished by the SRJ "Official Journal" 53/95, and only then should laws be passed. I would pray, since there is no representative of the government, whether the chairman of the Justice Committee is here, if he can explain it, if this law is in force, there is no point in doing these laws and if we continue to discuss these laws, then we do not respect the law of Yugoslavia. The day before yesterday I checked, this law was not abolished, and you should at least, someone from the government, or from the judiciary, to explain whether it makes sense, whether it continues the discussion. If he doesn't, he'll quit. A new law on salaries in state authorities and public services, Article 3, lays down the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, the Government of the Republic of Serbia states, and Article 5 determines that the payment groups of employees of Article 1 of this Act and the coefficients for the account and payment of salaries are determined by the Government of Serbia, which means that the executive authority determines the judicial authority, the level of remuneration, for which reasons the question of independence of the judicial authorities is rightly raised. This issue was more adequately resolved in the previous law on salaries in the state authorities, since Article 5 has been elected, appointed and appointed in the judiciary, in the judicial authorities and in Article 6 that the employed person decidently determines the rate of pay, e.g. for the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia at 8,500, the Court of Justice Judge 5,500, dactylograph 2,500, while Article 10 established the basis for the calculation and payment of the salary and provided the possibility for Valdi Republika Srpska to increase this base depending on the amount of funds provided for these purposes in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. While Article 11 of the same law provides for a special supplement for the elected, appointed and appointed persons of 40%, the basis for the calculation and payment and the salary of Article 10 of this law is set below the average net earnings of the employed in the economy of the Republic of Serbia for the previous month. One very important question, the basis for the payment of salaries of all persons employed in accordance with Article 1. The draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services should represent the average net earnings per employee in the Republic's economy for the previous month, while the amount of the salary calculation coefficient is necessary to determine the law itself for all persons employed, in accordance with Article 1. This would ensure the independence of each of the three authorities, legislative, judicial and executive authorities, on the one hand. On the other hand, all employees of state authorities, public services, would be accompanied by the movement of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the reduction or increase of the average profit. Another very important question, or fourth question, what is overtime? A category of overtime in the judicial authorities? We have the prosecutor, the driver and the people who are employed, who work through Sundays, Saturdays or Sundays, who work when religious holidays are, when the national holidays and that category in the judiciary, overtime, don't exist. How do you think and how the government thought to reward, to stimulate those people who worked during those holidays. One question left here without an answer, which is responsibility and sanctions are not defined at all. It's all nice to bring it in, and what if there's no responsibility, what if there's no sanctions, what about people who need to be sanctioned? It just doesn't exist. I'd like to ask the president again, if he can answer why he hasn't been abolished and whether the Official Journal number 53/95 will be abolished, because that's the fundamental foundation of all this. It should be said here whether we have Yugoslavia, whether we do not, whether you respect Yugoslavia or not. I've got it, I respect it, so let's get this law out of the Official List so we can talk some more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6170	The word has a folk MP, Hranislav Peric, followed by Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6171	I have the honour of having the vice president chaired, and I'd like to say hello to her, and I'd like to welcome the members of the government, so I'd better take a look, and it turns out I won't say hello to them, usually they're not in the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have yet another law before us that has been passed by the Government of the Republic of Parliament for adoption. Given that the government is a proposing, it is understood that it has provided for itself the greatest competences, i.e. to decide everything, and in this law she made sure that she had a knife and cake in her hands. This law seems at first sight, not complicated and brief, and there is no need for a wider discussion. When we look at on the other hand that this law will depend on the salaries of 420,000 employees in Serbia, we multiply by three members on average, then we only see how seriously this law should be approached, because one million people will depend on receiving it under this law. When the law is looked at in general, this is how it can be concluded that from the promised decentralisation, we get some more centralization, and more than that, that two three people decide everything. I don't understand why the government's pay commitment took over. If we know that the quality of workers' work depends on how the worker is rewarded for his work, why has the government made an obligation to decide who will receive the salary from employees in Merošina, Doljevac, Srljiga. It is not seen from Belgrade, one who is in direct contact with these people and who manages the local self-government would decide more justly. It's a little illogical that these executives have to give people a job on the ground, and they can't affect their salary. Also, this law is not very clear, as are others, in determining the basis for paying taxes and contributions. It is not clear what gross income is and how gross income is accounted for, what is for the state, and what is for the workers. Since determining the salaries of employees, Article 2 states: "The public services may, on the basis of their own income, increase the salaries established in the sense of Article 1 to 30%". What does that mean? To provide the possibility that someone for one third of the salary can have more, depends on where the municipality works. Secondly, "public services have no production, their production is the provision of services to citizens". Will not the price of services to citizens for the papers issued by local administrations, i.e. certificates, various beliefs, fees etc., to be increased by 30%. Will this increase of 30% again be paid by citizens, both as long and from where? In Article 5, the groupings are classified as payment groups. Why didn't the government give in to the law and the pay groups? This was left to the government later draw up a directive on the application of the law, as it corresponds to the government. I wish the law was complete, that it contained all the elements, which are related to the salary. When we adopt the law that everyone finds himself and can account for their wages, explain to the other, if there is a need, and the individuals behind this speaker say that the aim of this law is to introduce order in the state authorities and public services in Serbia and that wages will be leveled. I claim that measures will be introduced in public services, because Belgrade does not see who does, who provides what services, whether it is quality, and I think all of this will reflect on the services of citizens in our environments, because they do not all work equally well to receive equal salaries. Finally, I would like to suggest that the government withdraw this law, complete it with all the elements necessary for wages, give it into law of law and local administrations to decide on the height of the salary, because each environment is specific to itself and that we adopt a full law at the next session and that the law can be understood by us in the hall, and that we can explain it on the ground, to our voters and workers in our midst. Otherwise, we Socialists won't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6172	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and after that, MP Stevan Ž. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6173	The Honorable Madam Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the Government, in order to normly regulate an exceptional and significant area, I mean the salaries of persons employed by state authorities and public services, the Government has drawn up a bill on which MPs are discussing and which is incomplete in its content, in certain parts it is illogical and leaves certain issues open, let it completely bypass, and let it resolve for persons from the same area in different ways. I therefore believe that the law should be withdrawn from the procedure in order to be completed, improved and possibly later adopted. This bill needs to be changed which completely leaves the union out as a very important representative of the interests of employees, especially when it comes to talking about profits. The law abolishes the largest fluid for establishing a profit - a collective contract and returns to a long-overrunning system of profits. The text of the law shows no union presence. Will the union be a partner to the government in dedicating employees' earnings, basics and coefficients? Does this mean that 420,000 persons employed in state bodies, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government, public services and other bodies and organisations financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia are left to the will of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the Supreme Budgetary Master? All salaries in state authorities and public services, as well as social security organisations, depend exclusively on the government's act. Practically, the bill does not show what wages will be and how they will be determined. The government does everything, determines the basis, classifies the pay groups and determines the coefficients. No wonder the government is given such opportunities for those who the government sets itself up. But wonders when it comes to elected and appointed persons from the state body of the highest and most significant in this country, such as the National Assembly that chooses the government. With this government, it puts itself above the authority that chose it, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is completely skipping this bill, leaving aside public enterprises - EPS, NIS "Serbias" and others, which were the founder state, which were known to have, thanks to the monopoly position, at least most of them, made more profits at lower levels of the organization of work than was the case with the Prime Minister or with ministers whose even portfolio was those public enterprises that the founding state. Will this issue be subject to a special law and will the government take a position in terms of earning employees in these companies in due time? Because it is not necessary to prove that these companies owe their monopoly position on the Serbian market, and hence the profits, to the state. The law is not good, because it also introduces divisions within local self-government in terms of heights, divisions that are conditioned only by one criterion, which is the size of the territory of the local self-government unit, while other criteria remain on the side, such as the performance of the highest functions, the degree of development of the economy, municipal and other infrastructures. The law prescribes four different restrictions for the highest-valued functions in local self-government - for the city of Belgrade, for cities, for municipalities of more than 60,000 inhabitants and municipalities that have fewer inhabitants, and thus practically creates an artificial division within local self-government that does not correspond to the real state. The law does not regulate the question of earning employees in municipal companies based on local self-government, such as different funds for the development of municipalities, cities and other municipal enterprises, where employee salaries were much higher than the earnings of appointed and appointed persons in local self-government and public services at the republican level. For all these reasons, I don't think the law should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6174	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6175	Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday and today we are talking about a bill on salaries in state bodies and public services. As it is well-conceived, even if it has 12 members, it could have been realistically shorter in just two members. Since everything that's written in these 12, except for the last one that says it's being applied since June 1st, those 11 are practically giving the government the right to arrange this area and then all those 11 could fit into one member, saying that the government will fully regulate this area by its regulations. Now, as these regulations go, the truth is, this government has not brought them much so far, that monopoly on oil, which I would not comment on, and that regulation on public enterprises, which I have already commented several times already and if that regulation has already experienced, but since it has not yet been defined, that regulation will also have a regulation and a lot more will be repeated, given that the area has not been defined. Article 3 states that the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries is determined by the Government. Why not the Assembly? Why we're mystifying the base. The base can only be one and only one criterion can exist. The base can only be tied to the average in the economy. Because the economy is basically a base, and what else is what we used to call a social upgrade. And if that social upgrade is an upgrade above that economy and base, it can only share the fate of that economy. I also can't comment on the pay grade. When they were in fashion, I was small and I didn't understand. Is that good or isn't it going to show time? But if we move forward, it's hard for something that was 50 years ago to get into fashion now, as far as that part is concerned. Only one criterion was made, how to sort it, so the provinces, Belgrade, and cities were shown, from so many to so many people. Practically the only criterion that shouldn't have been taken at all. Siats of other criteria could have been considered here, but the one that only talks about the number of inhabitants, I think that if we reasonably observe it, we can see that he was the only one who couldn't. Because when we talked here about various sets of these laws, among other things, we said -- the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the first time in 10 years, it was ensured that municipalities and cities had their incomes, that -- "theirs" was put under quotes, because theirs, which concerns some income tax, some things, we had before as well as ours up to 5% in terms of municipal money or 1.3 relative to solidarity housing. Now it's all transferred to the profit fund and back there defined as much as the municipality of the sea, so it's hard to drink water. But let's accept it, that they have now received some of their incomes, but it has also been said here that a new law on local self-government has been drafted, which will bring the Republic's competences back to municipalities and cities, that Serbia's citizens will decide for themselves much more in their local self-governments, etc. And it will hardly decide when we testify that a few days of local self-government is no longer as the citizens have determined it, but as Mr Batic has determined. So it's hard to drink water, too. So we're throwing ourselves at ourselves here with some expressions that don't happen afterwards. And it's not even so monstrous, it's a lot to write, and this assembly was supposed to bring systemization for 420,000 employees. It wasn't the subject of this at all, and it wasn't the subject of Oatsacone, but I ask them myself and you -- when we get back from where we came from, and when the ones that this law applies to -- what we've brought, we're hardly going to be able to answer them, because we won't even be able to explain to them even roughly what the pay should look like, and this law determines it. Therefore, this law had to be more comprehensive and define some frameworks, not small intestines, as they say, but in any case some frameworks here had to be more precise. And like this, the whole law could only be brought down to two points. The first to be -- this area will be defined by the government as she wants it to be, and the second is that the law will apply from June 1st. It's already getting very controversial, so we'll see what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6176	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6177	The respected presidency, honourable MPs, may have had good intentions, when the bill was put into assembly procedure, but SPS lawmakers think the law will not achieve the desired goal. The first thing is not good, it's to derivate the system of collective bargaining and bargaining, the system that was essentially good, and we're going back to what was old, to pay classes, to something that we thought was far behind us. We, the Socialists, essentially agree to earn money in public services, state bodies, offices and compliance, but, if we look a little bit better, what is covered by this bill - salaries are arranged in state authorities, salaries by top state officials, MPs, public service salaries, financed from the Republic budget, public services financed from contributions to compulsory social security, the organisation of compulsory social security, and other bodies and organisations financed from the budget. Immediately, at first sight, it is clear that there are certain illogicalities - how is it that the government of Serbia regulates salaries, when it comes to the highest state functions, such as the President of the Republic, when it comes to the President of the National Assembly, the MPs, means, precisely to the authorities who choose the Government? On the other hand, if we consider this article a little bit better. - what public services include, organisations in the area of compulsory social security, state authorities: that is income management, geodetic administration, health institutions, education, financial police, justice, etc. The salaries in all these organs and organizations are very low and very low. The question is, which organization and state authority are we going to deal with? Citizens were expecting, seeing this bill and us MPs, that a law would be found on the agenda of this assembly to regulate salaries in state and public enterprises, such as EPS, NIS, etc. There's a big difference right there. There are big differences, because, for example, The average in EPS somewhere around 10,000, maybe something more, or something less, the average in education is about 4,000, maybe less. There's these enormous differences. When it comes to these services and these bodies, there are differences for the directors of health care institutions, because the boards there have determined their salaries, there are differences in pension and health funds, and only for workers who are chiefs of service, directors. With all the other services, so these salaries are very low, very low, and that's why we're saying that maybe this bill isn't going to achieve the right goal. The essential thing, which is why I came to the floor, which is why I give up the amendments that I have submitted, because I am going to say it now, in a discussion in principle, is Article 5, where it is said that the Serbian government is deciding on basics, coefficients and rankings in the pay groups of employees in all these state bodies and public services, except in the province of Vojvodina, or in territorial autonomy, such as Vojvodina. Let me be corrected by the representatives of the government, if that's not true. As I recall, and that was a long time ago, an amendment has just been adopted on the board, where territorial autonomy and local self-government authorities are said to be exempt from government authority, and that's kind of an answer. Ambassador Tomislav Nikolic asked - how will the government affect salaries in Vojvodina? Well, it won't, if that's true. Simply, we will have such a illogicality that the president of the Regional Assembly has a significantly higher salary than the president of the National Assembly of Serbia, that many directors of the institutions and state bodies in Vojvodina have far more salaries than in Serbia, and then, it is clear where Vojvodina is going. They have special television, they chose the director there, without the consent of Serbia, or the general director of RTS. Now we have, therefore, their special salary, behind it will be the separation of funds, behind it to the federalisation of Serbia, and that is the end of Serbia. In the end, I believe, when it comes to this bill, that nothing more important will be improved and that we will not vote for this law, and that the corrections that will be carried out by this law will be quite small, minimal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6178	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6179	The respected presidency, esteemed fellow MPs, is true that since the expiry of the Law on Salaries in State Authorities, since 1 January 1998, this issue has not been regulated in one place. There have been difficulties in these three years, there have been in these four and a half months of DOS rule, but all these problems have been solved, along with collective agreements, with the decisions of the Assembly, with government decisions, in some way resolved. However, this draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services has been made so that there are more shortcomings, which do not need to be adopted and should go to work. Three are the basic things I want to point out -- the first is that the law does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In certain parts of it, the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives more rights than the Assembly, which practically derogates power and the right of the Assembly. When it comes to the president of the Republic of Serbia, elected in the general elections, which is also the prime minister, who gave the term of office to President Djindjic for the government's composition, it is not logical for President Djindjic, or his government, to determine his personal income to the president of the Republic. Now it's simple, because it's Mr. Milutinovic. But I wonder -- what it will be like when the future president of Serbia arrives, not to name who it will be. Also, if it is the MPs and leadership of the Assembly, it is not logical that those elected by the people should be in the power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it determines their responsibilities, that it regulate their salaries, as regulated by Article 2.3. Five and seven. Dear colleagues, I have a concrete proposal -- if the government wants to avoid the problem of disrespecting the Constitution and jurisdiction, that the Assembly, which is elected, determines the rights, can be done in a very simple way -- that this job of determining salaries for the president of the Republic, MPs and the leadership of the Assembly, is done by the Serbian Parliament, on a proposal from the government. Therefore, Articles 2, 3, 5 and 7 need to make such an amendment that it is possible for the Assembly to do this work on a proposal from the Government. I'm asking you, what would be lost here? Nothing. So far, what has the government proposed not been through in this congregation? We haven't changed Yota in what the government suggested. Therefore, if the government wants to respect the Constitution, it can, on its proposal, adopt it to the Assembly. This is one of the main remarks that almost everyone who went out for this pay phone pointed out, so I think if the government wants it not to violate the Constitution, it can do it in the most elegant way. The second thing, in a part where we do not dispute the government's right to decide, which is 420,000 employees, it is clear that by adopting this law, the government will never again be responsible, but will be responsible for the Assembly that adopted it. Why should this bill go to work, when it comes to this second part? I think it's the government's commitment to make this transparent, it's just absolutely not a transparent law. This bill sets out the most concrete thing, i.e. personal income of 420,000 employees in bodies and organisations of territorial autonomy and local self-government, in public services and financial services, financed from the budget, from the Republic, to municipalities, such as education, healthcare, etc. By adopting the law, we need to adopt and thus determine the fate of future personal incomes of these people, and it contains a series of unknowns. To be mathematically speaking, this legislative proposal presents for us MPs an equation with four unknowns. The base is unknown, the coefficient is unknown, the classification is unknown in the pay grade and is unknown supplement on the salary. At the time I studied, though technology, not some pure mathematics, solving equations with four unknowns was a problem. He probably can now. The government wants us MPs, who are in all the educations, about this bill, who we know have no solution, to believe that there is a solution. It's required to solve equations with four unknowns. Yes, and so far, this government, as well as the previous governments -- and I, who have been working since 1966, don't know that there have been paid classes, though, I've worked in the economy and it's never been there -- they've determined salaries and no pay classes for everyone who's funded from the budget, but without a single law. Now, when they regulate it by law, she could give us at least two unknowns -- basics and pay classes, so the equation with two unknowns and we MPs, and the others with this problem, could be simpler to understand. Thus, it is not logical that Proposer Vuk Obradovic expects such an equation, whose solution only the government knows, votes, I would say, any of the MPs. That's where I think of both the position and the opposition. It's easier for the situation, because it simply has to trust the government unreservedly, and yet I don't think it makes sense for you to expect the opposition to trust the government unreservedly. She can only believe with some firm arguments, and they are not in this bill. Put yourself in my position. If I vote in favour of this bill, when the government adopts coefficients, base and pay classes for professors, and I have four in my family, I sit in line with one professor, I have countless friends in that branch, when the government determines their coefficients, or if we take the doctors I was with after the accident, I was at their table, and set them these odds, and I vote for, so these personal incomes are nothing, they'll ask me why I did it. If I vote - no, and the government determines a good base and a good coefficient and a good pay grade, so it all produces high personal income, and I vote against, my children will ask me why I did it. But I don't have the elements on which to define myself to vote yes. So I think it was necessary for the government to present at least some of the other elements, so we can get close to finding out what this law is going to bring and thus solve this problem. Finally, third, why, with all the problems that the government has with the presidents of municipalities in Leskovac, Zrenjanin, Medvedji, with unequal salaries among 420,000 people who are employed, decided to now declare, practically, from the collective contract 420,000 employees, which practically banned them from organising a union, and the essence of the union struggle is, as I understand it, an organization that needs to provide them with a better life. So far, there have been, I would say, nontransparent laws. (President: Time. It was the most innovative law. But according to my woodwork, since we have a fourth degree comparison, this is a dibidus non-transparent law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6180	The word has the People's MP Mr. Ivkovic, third caller, and after him, Mr. Vukic, second caller.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6181	Good afternoon and respect for the MPs and Mr. Chairman, this is my third date for the bill's pay phone. I want to say this -- essentially, for 430,000 employees, the government is an employer. If the government is an employer for 430,000 employees, then the government would have to have the same provision as in the Labour Relations Act and the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. It is an obligation by the 30th of the month to pay personal income for the previous month. There's no provision here. If we are already in favour of the positions of persons employed in education, in health care, in public authorities, then we should go towards ensuring the equality of these employees, and there are 430,000 of them, compared to all employees in any other company, social, state and private company. For other workers, there is an obligation for the employer to pay his personal income by the 30th of the month for the previous month and there is a commitment, that is, the agenda has passed, unless they pay their personal income, that they have to provide the state with funds for the budget and for social and pension insurance funds. So, in fact, by proposing this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia has avoided a provision for itself to commit, as it did by proposing other laws, for other employers, that these other employers have an obligation until the 30th of the month. What does that mean? This means that the government estimates that it will never be able to do so and has avoided it. Second, there is no criminal provision. That's why it's pretty clear what the government's doing. So far, we've had a collective contract, we've had border contracts, union contracts, we've had individual contracts. The government is erasing the unions. That the government is erasing the union talks and memos that you get, Mr. President of the Assembly, which I also get as president of the parliamentary group, and it's my turn to meet the Assembly. Otherwise, I must tell you that right now, I am sorry that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic is not here, he is currently in the House of 68 DOS MPs. In a room of 176 DOS MPs, 68 MPs are currently sitting. With all of us in the opposition, there are no 126 and no quorum. Just so the citizens of Serbia know. Look at the cards, count yourself, and you'll see that there's no quorum. All MPs of the opposition are in the O.R. Therefore, to know how DOS, who wanted to punish yesterday, etc., is how his relationship with this responsible business is. We have all received letters from the Syndicate, the union decidently says that due to the fact that the Syndicate was not consulted when establishing the Bill of Salaries in the State Authorities, it is required that the above-mentioned legislation be broken out of the assembly procedure. Decidno is said to be required with the Ministry of Justice and local self-government of talks, to consider the material and social situation of employees, which will worsen the new legislation, and which at the moment is causing the workers to revolt. So you have to tell the truth. Revolt employees are next, the government's obligation to fulfil its obligation as an employer to workers within certain deadlines, as the government has proposed to other employers, and this assembly has adopted the obligation. Secondly, it is clear that the priority is in education and health care, but the fact is, I repeat, that one equalist for many employees is devastating for this country. It is specifically related to judicial authorities, to various inspection bodies, to investigating authorities. We have, thanks to the long-standing embargo and NATO aggression, a accumulated gray economy. We need to solve this gray economy. We need to create a space to stimulate judicial employees and inspection bodies. Instead, our only incentive is that the government in its 100-day commercial says that someone has embezzled something, as if the government were a court. It's the only incentive for a court to be told in advance, you're a judicial system under forced administration, and I'm telling you as a government that something's been embezzled and you have to rule it embezzlemented. It's the only stimulation today during the 100 days of this government. Representatives of the government, and heard yesterday in Kragujevac, the building minister allows himself to be arrested instead of building buildings. So it's the only story. Allow me, Mr. Chairman, I know that I will step out of the agenda, but since my name is mentioned here, although MP Zarko Obradovic answered the final arrival of Ambassador Kovacevic, and if we talk about Bačka Palanca, I only want to underline something. When it comes to the law we're talking about, and if we're saying that centralization is the worst thing we can do, to centralize salaries of employees in local self-government and to have the government back in this country, and you simply won't be able to go to the movies without asking the government if you're allowed to go to the movies. There is no success in local self-government if there is a complete centralised verification of the value of work employed by local self-government. In this Bačka Palanca, if he is a skilled president of the municipality, if he can come up with programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, if he has a way to encourage his businessmen to go alone without the government to communicate with private capital and if that municipality starts to flourish in a commercial sense and raises the standard of employees, he must not have restrictions on personal income. It can't be the government that does it. If we're already talking about Mr. Curtis, and that's my trip, I publicly urge the current customs director to say how customs are now, when international co-operation is at a high level, when it comes to investing in economic capital, when without any embargo, restrictions are being made abroad. Publicly, Mr. Begovic or Begovic, as he is called, I call on him to say how much the federal customs administration has paid in the federal budget from January to March 2001. And let him immediately say how much Curtis, whom you have declared as he is, in that same budget at the time of the embargo, after the aggression, paid this people's abuse in January-March 2000. You know I don't ask for no reason. You know I have a great reason to ask, and you know the result and the answer is very interesting. I mean, less than Curtis, and you're wondering why. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6182	Replica, please, Mr. Kovacevic. This wasn't a replica, this was in the frame of exposure, so past the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6183	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, it's nice when the head of the SPS parliamentary group calls me this way and gives me a chance at a replica and when it passes by me, give me your hand and say hello. These are the real parliamentary relations in this House. That doesn't mean that I'm going to be lighter in the replica than I was saying this morning. So, I've been called four times after my discussion. I didn't answer for the line, now I'm called by my friend and countryman Banet Ivkovic, so I have to go out on the line. So, I gave my presentation under the proposal for a legal project in the domain that triggered the replica of the Radical Party and SPS representatives in response to some efforts in Mr Banet Ivkovic's discussion, to show that this current government should introduce into its work some of the elements that they previously had in the rule and rule of this country and rule in this people. I wanted to point out that this is exactly something that the new government shouldn't do, and I said that we didn't take them out of power to give them the opportunity to give us lectures and get involved in our work, but to just clean up everything that they did in their work. Now that he's already given me a chance at a replica, I haven't said another piece of information this morning, I want to say now. If you take care here and care about the interests of the working class, if you take care and say that this law excludes union organization, the right to contract work - it's absolutely incorrect. This law doesn't rule it out. Why don't the socialist gentlemen and their coalition partners from the previous compositions of the government come out for this pay phone, so they say, gentlemen, we've sinned, and now we're paying for our sins, we're returning stolen cars that we illegally drive, we're returning stolen and illegally bought apartments that were assigned to us for a year's work in the government, a 180-square apartment, and we're fighting for the rights of workers who have been working for 35 years and haven't got an apartment. Why don't you return the robbed foreign savings, why don't you return the looted funds from the inflations, why don't you return the looted assets from the economy. If you did, then you'd show that you're a real fighter for the interests of this people and the working class. Until then, you have no moral reason to go out for this pay phone and say one single word about the interest of the people of Serbia and the working class in it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6184	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vucic, and then a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday, speaking of the bill, I had to find out first that there was no one here from the proposing representatives. It is interesting that even today, Mr. President, they have better things to do than talk to MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It would be good for you to tell us which are smarter jobs or what is more important than the adoption of laws from their jurisdiction and representation and defence of these laws before the MPs, especially the representatives of the opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, as for the law, and yesterday I spoke and tried to warn first of all those from the Government of the Republic of Serbia who wanted to hear the opinion of opposition MPs, I wanted to warn them and to say that this violates the Constitution, and above all Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Government of the Republic of Serbia, as one of the two executive authorities, cannot assume on itself the powers and prerogatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the Supreme Legislative Body. What we saw today, and from the report from the session of the Legislative Committee, so we received paper and report from the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, is this additional reason why I answered. For reasons unknown to us, and I would like the representatives of the collapse, first of all Mr Djuraskovic, if I am not mistaken, to come out for this pay phone and say what it is that led the representatives of the Committee on Labour, the martial arts and social issues to bring the amendment to Article 5, which gives them broad rights and are not rights, but those prerogatives of authorities that should in no way belong to territorial autonomy. Here, first of all, it is understood, because of the fact that the government is thinking of Vojvodina, and it seems to me this way that someone wants the Vojvodina Assembly to transfer to the Vojvodina Executive Council those powers that should not even have the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legislative body of this country. So, by moving us slowly and in fact closer to what we had, those legal solutions, or those legal solutions that we had in the 1974 Constitution, which you know is characterised as confederal, as that legal act that followed, or created conditions for breaking the Republic of Serbia, if you want to today which maintains the conditions, or such ideas for breaking the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia. We believe that especially because of the fact that the Legislative Committee has not spoken out on this matter, or we have not received the material, and I would say that the Legislative Committee has not spoken out, that it would be good for the MPs to get to know each other, to explain to us what the real reasons were that led some MPs to vote for this, whether it was a desire for Nenadu Canka to meet or someone else in Vojvodina in such a way. It's no longer a question of whether he'll have a salary of 20, 30 or 50,000 dinars, and here in the National Assembly there's 10, and that's not important. Much more important than all of this is the question of why the Constitution is being violated and what all of this is being prepared, what is needed behind the hills by the adoption of such legal projects, especially minutes to 12, the amendments proposed by the Committee itself, which the Government accepts and which become an integral part of the text of the law. That's what we are concerned about in the SRS, that's what we are politically troubled, and I am sure it would be good and significant for all MPs in the National Assembly, so on only for the MPs of the opposition, but also for the MPs of the government, to come out one of the board members, a special representative who could explain to everyone, but also to the citizens of Serbia, what led them to accept such an amendment. I'd like to point out a few more things. Namely, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Article 30, and above all Article 29, provides for the Government to adopt regulations, decisions, solutions and conclusions. It is now said, in Article 30, that regulations are closer to regulating relations of importance for law enforcement, the principle of the interior organisation of ministries, etc. This issue, which is on the agenda today, laying down basics, pay coefficients, determining the pay classes, cannot be the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be determined by regulations or any other acts by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the Constitutional Court, if we had a Constitutional Court, as unfortunately we don't, this law would have to fall. Don't worry, we haven't had it before, as we don't have it today, there's no difference. They just switched roles. So it seems to me that someone in the government should understand, but I don't know how to understand when no one from the government has that opinion, when no one wants to hear it, they're probably preparing again to convict someone, because they're doing the work of the courts, and they're going to let the press know who's going to arrest who, because they're doing the work of the government and some other authorities, but that's not gonna be a miracle either. That is why I urge and appeal to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to accept our initiative, first of all, that this law is not passed, because it is a good law. It is not a good law, because one substance is being processed by the Government instead of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or the prerogatives of the government and the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or any other executive body. We in our country have a buffalo executive power, so you could give it to the President of the Republic and it would also be unconstitutional, as this is unconstitutional. So, I think and I call on the MPs in the National Assembly not to accept this, and as far as the predecessor's speech is concerned, I'll just say two sentences to him, that, by chance, even though I've been in the government, I don't have any car, I'm driving any official "South" SRS, and I'd like to offer, and since there's always talk about some huge wealth, that the two of us, regardless of the number of years, but I have a dozen years of internships, can't be a relationship of 10 to one, it's certain, I'm offering an exchange of assets in relation to one to 10, all immovable and mobile property relative to one to 10. I think it's a fair and fair offer, so let's see who agrees to that offer and who doesn't agree to that offer. Much more important than all this, much more important than all this story is the question of this law, is the question, because I don't mind if you've acquired everything you've acquired, fairly, and here the question is whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs will cooperate with the Government of the Republic of Serbia in breaching, trampling the Constitution as the highest legal act of this country, will accept something that cannot be accepted and something that cannot be allowed. It seems to me, and I'm afraid that by accepting these amendments, by going to the hands of the duchy separatists, they're not even autonomists anymore, but separatists, they're openly talking about it, not hiding their political ideas, not hiding what they're up for, that if we accept all of this, we're going to slowly get close to those solutions that are being offered to Montenegro today, which is the minimum Federation, the reduction of federal authorities, the reduction of federal competencies as it is today. I think and it seems to me that it is something that this National Assembly must not accept and that is why I call on the MPs to reject this legislative project completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6186	I'm asked, so let me answer, what are the reasons for the absence of the motionary. Mr Batic is in session of the Federal Assembly, which is held at the same time as the session of this assembly. He's the president of the DOS parliamentary group in the federal assembly, so that's the job that's running him parallelly, we haven't done a deaccumulation. Maybe on a proposal from the SRS, when it's settled on the agenda, but hard and then, so that's the reason given the importance of the agenda points that are being discussed today at the Federal Assembly, which he's not here today. Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6187	Article 80(2) has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6188	Now you surprise me. We have an objection to the lack of quorum. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. With those who break the Rules of Procedure, we have a quorum. By the way, I'm guessing we have a quorum. We have 114 registered and you 15. Either you're breaking the Rules of Procedure or the electronic system isn't working. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6189	Mr. President, you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because you convince us that we should put cards in MPs' units according to some of your provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure are quite clear. An MP is required to put an identification card only when he enters the O.R., only when he enters the O.R. (Anita Beretic, from the scene: not true. Is there something I'm asking you, sharpfoot? I can no longer defend myself, I serve here as a bear for hornets, slowly, I say serious things, I didn't look at anyone, I didn't insult anyone, what irritates you in my appearance? So, he says -- the quorum is determined by applying an electronic voting system, by making each MP responsible for identifying himself when entering the hall, by inserting an identification card into the MP's unit. Fortify the quorum and the session flows. It's the only duty of the People's Messenger. Afterwards, the MP shall act in accordance with his provisions during the sitting. My definition is that the session should never work when it is not attended by 126 MPs of DOS, so you will never have a quorum by the MPs of the SRS, because at the very least, it is immoral for all of you to drink coffee outside, because you know that there is a law being discussed that we will discuss ourselves. You go, do your jobs, and gather around the moment when it is necessary to hold the vote you need, or when we ask for a quorum. I promise you, from now on, we'll look very often for the quorum, even if you're going to sit in this room and read the newspaper in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6190	So we just found out we have a quorum. Secondly, Article 25 states that the quorum is determined, and then in Article 113 that you did not quote, it states that MPs are obliged to use only their identification cards, and to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the parliamentary unit. That doesn't mean they can get her out, it means that while they're in the O.R., and that's pretty clear, either you've identified yourself or you're not, or you don't exist. We've already had a discussion about this. It also states that the Messenger of the people is required to check out when leaving the hall. So either you're here with a card in the identification unit, or you're not here. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: We will come out whenever necessary. ) So, I say when you propose a quorum, you come out, you determine the quorum, come back, and that's fine. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: When we were making problems, you were the only one sitting there... We have a quorum, you don't have to go out and we can keep working. The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Vucurovic, and then a National MP, Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everything has already been said about this bill. I have to say, too, it's just weird that no one's asking me about the subject. The subject is not on the agenda. I'm surprised you don't know the basic accounting stores of my friend Lesnjak. He says this law is an equation with four unknowns. This is not a law that is an equation with four unknowns, this is a law with one known, and that is known as the government. The government will, therefore, determine everything this law provides for and the basis, and the coefficients, and payment classes, and additional work, and overtime and everything else will be determined by the Serbian government. Now it's the Serbian government, which took a good idea, the idea of the SRS, but it disfigured it, because we thought that paying classes were introduced only in the administration, or in bureaucracy, because the one who hits the seals in Nis and the one who hits the seals in Belgrade are absolutely equal and that is the good side of this law. But not in education, especially in health care and other categories. The government determines salaries and elected persons. Whether these salaries will be higher or lower is absolutely irrelevant. There won't be any more so they can help, and not so much lower that they can get away, but that legal solution violates the art. 82nd and 90th. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated by the basic principles of democracy, because as I told some of my friends here yesterday, there is anarchy in which children command parents, because parents love them too, so they listen to them, and there is anarchy and where women order husbands and for the same reason they listen to them. But there's nowhere under the sky to command the coachman. Here, the Serbian government determines all that starts with the basis it will determine, and then it will give the president of the Assembly the coefficients. However, as Mr. Vukic said, disrespect for this assembly and derogation of the rights of elected persons is particularly expressed in an amendment that does not apply to the Vojvodina Assembly, which leaves it free to determine its salaries, as much as it will. The government's disrespect for this assembly has been manifested since the first day of failure to attend the assembly sessions, but it seems only with the Serbian Parliament, sitting very neatly in the Federal Assembly of Ministers, at each item of the agenda. There's a difference here. In addition, to the efficiency of the Government, when we are obstructing the Government from passing laws effectively, and how effective the Government is, you can see in Article 11. Article 11, by way of derogation from this Act, ceases to apply Article 9(1). The law on special rights and duties of the President of the Republic, which was passed a month ago and on which we spent two days. After a month, you've passed a law that you've abolished, because we've been discussing the law very effectively for two days, and you're now very effective in abolishing it with one move. What were we talking about these two days? So, to avoid breaking the law and breaking the constitution, because so far you have violated the Constitution in a whole package of tax laws, only yesterday the Federal Assembly adopted amendments to the Tax System Law. Since the laws of the Republic of Serbia began to apply until yesterday, they have been unconstitutional, and as such they cannot or at least cannot produce a legal fact. Will those who paid taxes, contributions and everything else under these laws now ask the Serbian government to recover those funds? I advise them to look. So, in order to avoid breaking the law in this case, I suggest that the law return to completion, that at least those members who directly violate the Constitution be expelled and that a valid project be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6192	There's a word from the People's MP Mr. Dragan the Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6193	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in short, are perfectly clear on the government's intention and this clear intention has been translated into this bill, which is fully justified and therefore the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of this bill. However, what is repeatedly pointed out here, these are the provisions of Article 5 of the Law, and I will repeat the arguments made by fellow MPs. There are better solutions in the amendments proposed by opposition MPs. I do not think that the issue of the constitutionality of this provision is so open because it is true that the Constitution provides for the National Assembly to determine how the rights of Members of Parliament should be determined. So that's where the question opens - what are the rights? Is the profit right? She's right, but here's how rights can be interpreted. And on the other hand, it should not be forgotten that the Constitution has also established that the government is law enforcement. Therefore, if the National Assembly adopts this law in this form, then it authorises the Government to do what this law establishes and implement. So they are not strong arguments that raise the issue of the constitutionality of this law. However, the second observation concerning the establishment was carried out, how to avoid this term often used here, the openness of this law, where this demonstration of the relations between the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not resolved in the best way and therefore DOS MPs will vote for those amendments to opposition MPs who are better proposed to do so, which is to determine the coefficients and pay classes by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6194	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6195	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, would first refer to some of the arguments given in defence of this law by DOS representatives. I agree with the fact that in this area as of 1 January1998, when the Law on Salary in State Authorities ceased to apply, there was no legal basis for the full regulation of this area. As for that part of the explanation why the Labour Relations Act is not applied in the state bodies, I would like to make a point there. It has not been applied before, and is not now applied because the law stipulates that the basis for calculating the earnings of government officials is the average salary in the Republic of Serbia. We are all aware of the fact that economic power not two years ago, not now, and probably not at any reasonable time in the future, will be such that the average salary as such can be the basis for calculating earnings, but it must be some category that will be characterized by economic strength and the inflow of budgetary resources. I'd like to list three groups of reasons why I don't think this bill should be accepted after all. The first may be a bit of ideological nature and concerns the fact that this bill actually abolishs a collective contract which is one of the flows of union struggle and which is accepted as such in most developed European countries as the basis for calculating earnings. The absolute role of the union is marginalized, which I believe is not good, and I have to admit that I had no intention of reporting for word in this agenda point that yesterday I did not listen to the discussion of an esteemed colleague who tried to defend the law, and he stated that he belonged, or that he was the former or current leader of a union organisation, and that he was pleased that the government invited him to discuss this bill and he agreed with it. I am surprised by that satisfaction, because this very law means the participation of the union in the negotiations and in the talks on the most important condition for improving the material position of employees, the level of earnings, is completely annulled. The second group of reasons is related to the very system that is being established by this law. The pay grade system is not unknown in these areas. He was present at the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, also in one period after World War II. This system of paying classes rests on the hierarchy of rewarding employees and is its feature that this award is done according to the title, responsibility and employment contribution of employees. He should distract more successful, ambitious, and good workers, and demotize the others. The fact is that we live in a time of poor budgets, that we will surely live in such circumstances for a long time, which is also a condition for the distribution of the book. Therefore, the introduction of hierarchy, when even the most valued functions barely cover the consumer basket, is not a good way, it is simply not the time and that Serbia is not able to adequately and quality into this system of profit accounting. The third group of reasons, no less important, is that at this very session we have passed or we will pass several laws where we have obliged employers to do so on an up-to-date basis, within certain deadlines, and threatened them with sanctions in a number of laws, high fines, even the possibility of banning them from performing their duties for a certain time, which are very difficult and rigorous sanctions. And in this bill of law, where the government appears as an employer, no criminal provisions, no sanctions. This is another indiscipline to which this government is taking over, and these are the reasons why this bill should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6196	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law clearly shows the government's intention to be supreme, and I would say the only arbitration officer in all spheres of life in Serbia. The government wants it to be a mufti, and a cadiya, and a cop. In official statements, the government advocates decentralisation, in practice, works differently. Here we have representatives of the DOS coalition, MPs from Nis, who in the election campaign advocated and said Nis was enough for themselves, the Nis region, that the money earned in Nis should remain and be distributed from Nis, that they are fed up with Belgrade's Belgrade Belgrade Belgrade's Belgrade Belgrade Belgrade Belgrade's emigration and tyranny. Here, we now have a law that will determine everything not in Belgrade, but in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that is something known, that the prime minister has always exercised his positions through the executive bodies, starting with the shift of Micunovic, which he is also trying in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Instead of taking responsibility for what is really authorised and what is necessary, let's say that at the request of the employer, the Government can determine lower rates for payment of contributions, at least during this transitional period, until privatisation and transition to different forms of property is carried out, the Government avoids it. But therefore, it regulates some non-competent relations that are contrary to the Constitution. If the Government is above the Assembly, what can we expect further? Perhaps we can expect a bill in which the government will be authorised to propose and pass laws, that the Assembly does not need or perhaps just to have Miss Micic present and that, depending on its mood, accepts or rejects legal proposals. We already have some occurrences where the government's dangerous intentions are manifested drastically. The government and the judges, the government arrests, are prejudged, and that is all that warns us that we must stand even harder against such proposals by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Where the whole government doesn't help, there's Minister Batic, with hackers and women's socks. We are also trying to warn the government, and the MPs of the coalition majority, that it is very important to hear what they think about them, what the people who elected the MPs think, but it is already quite obvious, it is seen from the statement by Zoran Djindjic, that it is very important to him what the world thinks of him, so that he, he says, calls in the evening some groups from abroad, and when they tell him that he is beautiful, honest and smart, then sleeps peacefully. We think it must be different, that the government must also be bound by the opinion of the MPs. Today, there are neither Batic nor Djindjic nor Vuk Obradovic nor other ministers. They probably have already decided, and they probably already know that the congregation majority will accept this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, as a People's MP, here said that the law could be accepted and that they would vote for one amendment, which amends the law. The fact that his parliamentary group is likely to vote for the amendment does not mean that it will be adopted. We've had many examples that they've voted for some amendments, and they haven't had a majority. That is why I propose that we withdraw this law from the procedure and end the debate, and that the law be offered when it is in a text that can satisfy at least most MPs in the National Assembly. These days we've had laws passed with 115, 110, 105 votes. So there are not even those majority in DOS, who are willing to vote for these laws, but opposition MPs, by their presence, allow them to quorum and pass such laws. And now, what we're especially looking forward to, in the end, DOS is really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6198	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6199	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a first objection to the presence of the government in this room. I am not satisfied with the explanation given by Mr. President of the Assembly, explaining the absence of the legislator of this law, Minister for Local Self-Government, or Justice, Mr. Batic. The fact that Batic is a member of the Federal Assembly, which has certain obligations and there, may be his problem, but he is the legislator of this law and should be here. By the way, there's not a single member of the government here, and just the members of the government are violating the dignity of this house. Some of them, probably in ignorance, strays, goes away, so when he realizes that his proposal isn't on the agenda, he better get out of this room and disappears. But they may have their representatives here, who, on their behalf, will interpret this law and answer questions, and I have some questions, so I would ask Mr. Jovanovic, who is here, to answer these questions on behalf of the government. In addition to what most predecessors have already said about this law, that it is centralist, that it leads to centralisation, which is contrary to the majority of the campaign in this room, I won't stick to it. I personally don't understand the title of this law. So, termologically, I don't understand why they're talking about wages here, not profits? The title is - Proposal for a bill on salaries in state authorities and public services. So far, we've been talking about profits, and I've been trying to connect this, find analogy and connection, and I've come to the conclusion that there is, except termologically, and a fundamental difference. Taxes and contributions go into the profits, and taxes and contributions don't go into these salaries, because that's clearly and said here. Here, in addition to the basic earnings, or so far net wages, only the salary allowances, which are defined in Article 9. I don't understand how now they're going to be accounting for the salaries of education workers, in health care, in the state administration, whether employees in these services will know what their total earnings are, with taxes and contributions? How is it going to connect to the law that was passed here yesterday? How will those who are a supporter of other persons, who are employed in these services, be charged with such compensation, which they pay, or give to maintenance persons? Will it be accounted for on the salary, which is defined here, or for the total earnings, which includes both taxes and contributions, which do not appear here? Will the budget of the Republic of Serbia, education, health, justice and other services transfer funds for contributions and taxes, or just for wages, as defined here? The second question I would ask Mr Jovanovic, who is authorized to represent the government here, is the question of public enterprises. Personally, I can support this kind of approach to the idea of making a certain balance between public service employees' earnings, in the state administration, but I'm interested in what's going on with public enterprises? Does the current government know how many benefits they are, how much profits they make in public enterprises, and why they keep running away from it? Why has some law, or law, not defined at least some boundaries, some frameworks for earning employees in public enterprises? Please, we are talking about the equality of public service employees, the state administration, budget users, education, health care, etc., and no one mentions public enterprises, such as EPS, NIS, etc. Do you know that profit is higher than wages, as is the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and is it just, and when will this injustice be corrected? Not to say that that profit is more than three times the salary of a high school teacher in a public company EPS. Is that justice and when some regulation will speak of it here? Article 1 defines the bodies, organisations and services in which this law regulates wages. Point 2 states that this law regulates salaries in authorities and organisations of territorial autonomy and local self-government. Gentlemen, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, two autonomys have been defined in this republic. In Article 6. The constitution states: "In the Republic of Serbia there are AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija as forms of territorial autonomy. "I am afraid that you have left room for some new autonomy in this Serbia, to which this law will then automatically apply. I think that should have been precisely defined, because the Constitution defined it precisely, we only have two autonomys, and it was logical to put it here and put it in concretely. Article 2 of this proposal states that the salaries of the staff referred to in the proposal for a member shall be determined on the basis of the basics, coefficients and additions. The second point is that public services can increase wages to 30% based on their own incomes. I am interested in whether this applies only to public services defined by points 3 and 4 of the first article or to all budgetary users who make their own incomes. To remind you that health care is making its own income, there is a participation, that the minister of education announces participations in education. So schools will make their own income. Will they also be able to increase employees' salaries by Article 2 to 30%? Article 3 states that the basis for the salary account is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here is Mr Jovanovic, and others have claimed that the government will negotiate with the unions and that the unions will be active participants in these negotiations, etc. However, it may be as a recommendation, but this law did not deciminate the government's obligation to consult trade unions and negotiate with trade unions. That means the government, if it wants -- can, if it doesn't -- not have to consult unions on these issues. We know how many workers are covered by this law, we know how many unions there are, we know how much these unions played in the previous period, how much they fought for both education and health care and the status of all employees in those areas. It is now unfair for all these trade unions to be eliminated from further consultations on their status and status as employees of these organisations and state administrations. I think there's a provision that obliges the government to negotiate with the unions on the salaries of these employees. Furthermore, I have an objection to Article 5, which says that the classification of the pay groups of employees and the coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then came the amendment of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, which extends this member, in addition to the words: "except for employees of bodies and organisations of territorial autonomy and local self-government". Imagine now the absurd - The government will determine the coefficients for the billing of salaries to the president of the National Assembly, MPs in the Assembly, the President of the Republic and other persons elected in the direct elections, and will not be able to determine the coefficients for local self-government representatives. (President: Mr. Jovanovic, time. ) Is this a concession to Nenadu Canka and the autonomists of Vojvodina, who also announce in today's newspaper that they will take matters into their own hands and that they will be lords of the assets that the province has. It states in Article 10 that employees are entitled to remuneration and other remunerations in the amount established by the Government Act, if the specific law is not otherwise laid down. Gentlemen, this is a special law that regulates the rights, or salaries of employees in these areas. What special new law do you assume here? Does this mean that there will be exceptions beyond this law, so the government will make some exceptions and bring new laws to regulate receipts in some of these areas? In the end, just one sentence, this is the law, probably the first in which there are no criminal provisions. Explain to me now how the government or someone else will sanction the insubordination of this law? If Mr. Canak doesn't want to respect this law, and we see that he doesn't, if there are no salaries that we heard yesterday that are twice the salary of the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister, etc., if he doesn't want to pay them back within this law, how will you force Mr. Chank to do so? There are no criminal provisions here to be followed and to bring all of this into line with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6200	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6201	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I fully agree that in this part of the functioning of the state and the state authorities, order needs to be done. I don't think all the facts in the context of economic inequality and development in Serbia have been taken up in the making of this law. Even old JNA, when calculating salaries for its elders, had that in mind, so it was done not only in the republics, but even in the Republic itself. They made such a good law on rewarding their elders’ staff, relative to the part of the territory in which they served, that no one could object to such a law a single word. This law places workers in a state service in an unequal position relative to the development of the area in which they live, as regards the standard of living. So I could only give you one example, that when there was a debate on the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, the Minister made one incorrect fact within which pension bases could not be different on the basis of the development of the area in which they live, because all pensioners receive the same pensions. I have to tell you that's not true, because the pension base and pension that the pensioner will receive depends on how much he's paid into his PIO fund. It depends on the economic power of the region in which he lives. So, from the industry and the resources in which he works and works his working age. So, by law like this, without all these facts in mind, state workers are placed in an unequal position in the part of the country and the parts of the country where economic development is higher, where the cost of living is higher, where the cost of living is higher, compared to those living in undeveloped areas where, therefore, the basic cost of living is lower. I don't understand why such a law didn't take that into account, because in the old laws and experiences, which proved to be good, it could have been improved and introduced into all forms of state administration where wages are financed from the budget. So, both in health care and in education, we would also evenly receive relatively the cost of life. I see the government was trying to at least in that part to say that it's transparent about equality. However, this law continues this inequality. If what I've just said had been taken into account, the inequality that is now would be smaller, and in any case even smaller when this law begins to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6202	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6203	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, seems to me that it makes sense to comment on the criticisms we are facing, because some argument has already been accepted, especially the one in which this law is nevertheless seen as an attempt to seduce order in an area that has been temporary since 1998, but has been legally unregulated. I think there is also a need to explain those criticisms concerning sanctioning and disrespecting the provisions of this law, regardless of the government, as a formal employer. I had the opportunity to listen to Mr. Ivkovic, who defined the government as an employer, and as paradoxically as it seemed to someone, she did. Therefore, the Government is bound by the decisions of this assembly, and on the 12th item of the agenda, when we passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Law. The government has no right to seek out for itself different business circumstances than it does for other participants in the country's economic life. Therefore, the government will suffer sanctions defined by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act in the fullest sense. I agree with the objection which has been made here and which criticises the form proposed by this law, given that it is about the Law on Payments on the Authorities of the State Administration, not the Law on Profits. I think it must be corrected and that it is the government's duty and that it will be done already for the next assembly session. As regards those covered by this law, and given that there have been public undertakings and objections affecting this type of financial policy that regulates profits within public enterprises, this is not the law. This law applies only to employees of state administration authorities and to those of fund-funded employees. As far as public enterprises are concerned, they are financed on the basis of certain earnings made by employees by their work within these companies. Of course, there is a big difference between receiving in one NIS, EPS and receiving one health care professional or an educator. Since these are two formally incompatible things, the government has prescribed and we have discussed this in one of the previous sessions, a clause that applies to the adoption of a new law and is already regulated by a regulation in public enterprises, owned by a state. I also remind you of the provision of a member of this law that says that the Government determines the level of coefficients in the state bodies and that for the persons that the Government is setting. The same policy will be applied and already applied on the basis of a regulation on public enterprises. They can no longer have higher incomes than 40% higher than the average earnings in the Republic. It is a regulation that has affected public enterprises and a regulation that has been criticised by employees in these public enterprises. I'll remind you of the NIS employees' protest in Novi Sad half last month. However, we have been forced into such a kind of policy, and since the full resources achieved by the activities in these public enterprises have been spent on the payment fund. They are not invested in rebuilding the infrastructure of the companies themselves or improving production processes. We were in a situation where EPS spent total funds on a payment fund or NIS, or, say, ZTP, Belgrade Airport, JAT. We changed that. We have obliged the management of public enterprises to comply with the government's regulation that cannot pay higher salaries than that increase by 40% compared to the average income in the Republic. Of course it is, then, for some kind of criticism in the sense of mentioning that edifice, but we think it's social justice and it hurts. I hope we'll avoid that argument very quickly that makes coffee cooks or waiters of the President of the Republic pay even more than MPs... (President: Mr. Jovanovic, time. But unfortunately, that's the reality we live in and I think there's going to be a lot more confusing situations, room for criticism. I accept some criticism. Mr. Martian said we'd adopt the amendment. I didn't pay attention to whether the amendment is an opposition or a position, but it's a good amendment. It guarantees union rights which were otherwise not challenged by this proposal and which are guaranteed by collective agreements, as well as the Labour Relations Act, which we have adopted here. It will be further underlined by this law, so that the government will be able to adopt and leave the coefficient with the consent of the competent working bodies of the Assembly and with the consent it will receive from the Syndicates.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6204	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, and that is the last reported candidate for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6205	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Mr. Stanko Kovacevic, who insulted me for calling me a thief. Mr Kovacevic, I am a decent citizen of this country and I am a member of the most honest party in this country, the SRS. I haven't stolen anything in my life, and everything I've acquired, I've gained from my honest work. I come from an honest peasant family, which has also done everything with a fair work. I think it hurts, because me and my colleagues from the SRS are decent people. When I get out of this assembly, your MPs, trust me, they're waiting for drivers and cars, and I can't read what brand that car is, and I don't know when it's both in the time and how it's earned. (Glass from the O.R.: Jip. ) Since the law refers to 420 000 employees who are classified according to the complexity, responsibility and conditions of work, titles and occupations, the pay-out coefficients will be determined by the appropriate government act. It should be noted that the classification of the pay groups of employees, these laws and coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This law regulates the way in which salaries, additions, fees and other receipts and receipts of elected, appointed and staff: 1st salaries by the President of the Republic, the President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, the President and Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group, the President and Vice-President of the Permanent Working Body of the National Assembly and the National MP at the permanent work of the National Assembly; 2nd Authorities and Organisations of Territorial Autonomy and Local Self-Government; 3rd Public Services, financed by the budget of the Republic, the Autonomous District and Local Governments; 4th Public Services, financed by contributions to compulsory social security; 5th Organisations of Mandatory Social Insurance; 6. other bodies and organisations financed from the budget. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia ("Official Messenger of the Republic", No. 1/90), within the framework of the administration and office of the President of the Republic, found among other things that it educates professional and other services for the conduct of operations under its jurisdiction, and the budget for the President of the Republic gives 28,300,000 dinars, while for the work of the state authorities it envisions 19,576,858 thousand dinars. Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 5/91 and 45/93), as an executive authority, the government performs tasks specified by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and by law and is responsible for doing these tasks to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This shows that the government has self-incentived from the RS Constitution and declared itself the highest legislative body, instead of the Assembly doing so as it has so far. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of salaries by those laws, sublaws and other acts of officials, who operate the state authorities, have been established in different ways. It should be noted that their salaries are secured from the budget. This law regulates the way in which salaries, additions, fees and other remuneration of employees, dyed and posted persons in state bodies, in the bodies of territorial autonomy and local self-government, financed from contributions to compulsory social security. Since the Law on Working Relations in State Authorities provided for the possibility for specific regulations to establish the titles and interests of employees other than those laid down in Law 8 and which read - the names and interests of employees of state bodies who, under the provisions of the Labour Law in State Authorities, are laid down specific rules. The titles and occupations set out in this law are used, starting with the complexity of jobs, responsibilities and conditions for the performance of these tasks. The coefficients for such titles and occupations shall also be determined on the basis of the coefficients established by the Government act. The obligation to use these titles and occupations with the titles and occupations of the Labour Relations Act in the national authorities is prescribed. The provision is necessary in order to determine, after the adoption of the Government act, the coefficients, by using them, the corresponding coefficients and for those employees who have established different titles and occupations. In Mr Djindjic's exposé, it can be seen that this is a major reform and energy action. It's made up of two parts. The first part is a kind of strategy team and priorities team, made up of businessmen and representatives of DOS parties. The other part is experts not from the world of theory, but from the world of practice. Several of them have a successful career in the world's largest companies, they are there to help their country, and to sign up for a list of founders of democratic Serbia. That's what we've been able to experience and see so far. I am now interested in what value Mr. Dragan Milovanovic, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, Mr. Vladan Batic, Mr. Dragan Vesenov, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, Mr. Jožef Kasa and others.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6206	Mr. Zivanovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6207	Mr. Kovacevic, I am speaking to you, ask them about the apartments, ask them about the houses, ask them about the land, ask them about the factories, where they got it, whether they earned it in this system or in the previous one. Furthermore, in the exposé Mr Djindjic says: it is our programme and these are the people who will implement it. The least we can promise is that it will be the government of speed and transparency. We will react to every problem immediately, we will tell the truth, and we will propose solutions. We won't lie, we won't steal, because we've done it democratically before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6208	Mr. Zivanovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6209	We Serbian radicals believe that this law, as well as DOS authorities, is intolerant, unprincipled, unreal and unusable, should therefore be withdrawn from the procedure. In today's "News" Mr. Canak says that the salaries of the province's MPs are twice as much, and he doesn't care what the salaries of MPs are in the republic's parliament. He just wants a quick decentralisation of Vojvodina and its separation. It states that seven months this government has done nothing, but it's working on that folk's "trouble of midwife" to pass her day. Public officials and officials should make profits suitable for the standard, responsibility and dignity of their work. The salaries of public officials and officials must be periodically aligned according to a fixed permanent parameter that would prescribe the law. Mr. Prime Minister once again cheated on this parliament when he said that no state official would be a member of any board of directors, and we are aware that many in the boards - many companies. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest affair to the government talks on the seriousness of this government and the people who are in this government, which is Mr. Djindjic, Mihailovic and Batic, likely that the Deputy Prime Minister and President of the Social Democratic Party Vuk Obradovic touched the hornet, and from that people's "drive the fox and drove the wolf out", it appears that he came across a trail of this government gentleman. We Serbian radicals are constantly pointing out that this government is made up of corrupt figures, whose past and present are suspicious. That's why we propose that this government resign collectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6210	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6211	Mr. previous MP, at the very beginning of his discussion, called me to insult him and call him a thief, and then somewhere near the end of his discussion, he suggests to me that for my remarks, I would like to ask the current government, where are the apartments, where are the cars, where is the money. So, amazing nonsense. First of all, I did not insult the fellow MP, because I personally, and I did not apostrophe his party as a thief. In my exposé, I pointed out the theft of the previous government, and what the Radical Party has participated does not apply to the membership of the Radical Party, but to the individuals who participated in that government and contributed to what happened. How else would you, Mr. MP, call those who still drive illegal cars today, who are sitting in apartments robbed and illegally bought, who today enjoy robbed goods from old foreign currency savings, inflation and stolen money from the company. What would you call you? Come out for a pay phone, and say that they are blessed. Is that why you should be offended? The truth really always offends a man. After my debate, a representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr. Toma Nikolic, came out for a pay phone and said, "Here is a typical DOS representative who made himself rich at the time of Milosevic's rule." If I am a single representative of DOS, but a typical DOS representative, who was robbed at the time of Milosevic's rule, and the proof of this is this: my company invested money in the adaptation of the area in Chicago Ljubina Street, the most beautiful space of the tourist agency in Yugoslavia, and the JUL government, with the help of the authorities of the Old City of SPI, sold the space where he invested and worked in it, to JUL, although I suggested that in the name of the Municipality of Stari build up commitments to the community of Stari Grad, and that this space in which I invested money remains for me. No, I was expelled in three months from it, and the judge of the Court of Commerce who led the dispute told my lawyer - sir, so Mira Markovic calls every day to give this dispute a once-over. It's the truth about the thieving government, and it's true to you about the typical DOS representatives, who have been robbed in the last 10 years, and they haven't gotten rich.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6212	Have we agreed when the former government is mentioned that you are not answering? Didn't we reach an agreement when the former government was mentioned not to report for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6213	I'd ask you to turn on the clock only when the noise stops because I'm disabled to concentrate on the replica. So, given that I have the right to reply, I have to answer because they are sitting here, like when a farmer throws wheat or corn, there are accusations about members of the former government and parties who have been participating in power, as to God their membership is extraordinary and they need the hints of these people. Only all those who have participated in any way in power are robbers, those are the ones who have been kidnapped. You can applaud as much as you want, but imagine the situation after this year's election where you'll lose power, have someone come out for a pay phone, so you're just blind listeners, he says - you were in that power that robbed and you're robbers. Mr Kovacevic, I said that you are a typical representative of millionaires who came to DOS by millions during Milosevic, and came to power when DOS came to power and there is nothing better in life. I don't know about this place of yours, you just said rightly, it took your city's power in Belgrade, municipal authority in Old Town. All your friends and colleagues have been participating in that government, and you know it very well. Neither did the SPO himself in power in Old Town, nor was the DS alone for one time in the city, and then the SPO alone in power, it was all mixed up. I can't accept that anyone from the former state-level government participated in the kidnapping of that place, when the municipal government, which is the opposition at the time, took your place. I see that you are constantly alluding to individuals from the SRS driving in stolen cars, you said, and then you should, don't say it like Tito used to say, whenever it's dense in the country, it comes out and says, "There are thieves in this country and 20 million citizens remain confused, because you don't know who 20 million thieves are now and who the police are coming for." Please, when you say - drive in stolen cars, get out and say - you stole the car and now you're driving in it. You live in stolen, illegally bought apartments, you go out for a pay phone, and you say you stole and illegally bought the apartment. I accept that as a principle, as a manners, and so I want to talk to you. To talk about thousands, millions, and to think about me, that doesn't make sense. If you mean me, you mean me, and if you don't mean me, you mean someone else. I said there's a lot of millionaires in DOS. Am I lying? I understand that someone financed your campaign, and you say it's not America. It's not America? Then those who are with Djindjic, we talked about this speaker who financed Djindjic's campaign, whether "Crmivo-product" financed Djindjic's campaign, yes or no. Did some banks fund Djindjic's campaign, did they or did they not? Just laugh, what's in it for you. Do you have those houses, do you have those millions, do you have an ergel of hypodrom in the Banovci? You don't, and it'll be picked up by individuals. (Honey Angelkovic, from the place: We have an apartment of 200 square meters. Which one did she say about the apartment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6214	Mr. Nikolic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6215	And that's you throwing away, accusing all these blondes, I didn't know I was interesting for black women. So please, anyone who wants to accuse any member of the SRS, let him come out and say, this and that of the SRS has stolen foreign exchange savings, of which 1,000 marks, 500 marks, 20 marks, a million marks, and then I'm going to go out and say that I'm already doubting about one event since last night, that a new government was re-involved because it was said that the members of that new government were withdrawing money from a bank, through the person whose tragedy occurred last night. My people, you've gotten into serious things and don't think lightly...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6216	Mr. Nikolic, it's the fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6217	What warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6218	I say, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6219	Okay, never mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6220	The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6221	Dear People's MPs, this law itself...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6222	Let's hear more of this MP, and we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6223	This law is of considerable importance because it covers a truly huge population of civil servants who are numbered by a figure of 420 thousand. The topic is interesting and important, the facts that Mr Jovanovic mentioned are true, that by 1998 it was regulated by law, so it was supposed to be passed, so we entered in 1999 and then NATO bombing and all events came and I guess those were the reasons why this regulation had not been upgraded. It is definitely true that the previous law had significant shortcomings, since it did not cover certain categories, did not determine correct relations, so certain privileged groups appeared. We cannot classify this as a consequence of members of one, the other or the third political party, but we need to talk about this as serious and responsible people. What I don't see as a solution to this law, and the truth is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be an employer to all these employees, I don't see a few facts. What I think is a problem, I have to say that I participated in four systems from the previous period and put a series of remarks on relations and ranges in certain categories of employees. In particular, it is an interesting category of officials involved in the control of the functions of the state. The state's control function includes the MUP, various inspection services in Serbia's territory, financial police authorities, preventive control authorities in tax administrations, and not to list these inspection bodies. What's left of it as a problem, I think we should seriously treat it, it's unquality work. In the previous period, small wages, but I don't see by this law that this issue will be better served. I would also like to point out that the government particularly takes care of categories with special powers, people who deal with the most risky jobs, these are financial police inspectors, this is market inspection, various authorities working on border crossings, and perhaps educational inspection, which remained particularly neglected during the previous period, beyond significant powers, with old personnel from previous periods, with low personal incomes and very small powers. It might be good, definitely, to take particular account in this area, because we have been faced with a number of abuses, from political, to the use of religious sects, to the presence in front of schools of various purchases, drug trafficking, the relationship of professors, a part of lecturers who didn't care about students, and I think we should make sure that when it comes to personal incomes, and powers, and work, and the treatment of employees in those services. Perhaps we should also strengthen the powers, and definitely protect the categories of employees in the area and protect the children. When it comes to ranges, you may not be interested in this, but it's an important area for 400,000 people, when it comes to ranges, I have to remind you that it's important in the tax authorities, because there are five categories of commissioners, five categories, and in this law only one is treated. I don't think it's going to be good, but it's gonna be hard for the tax administration to deal with the range structure, and we're saying that someone's in charge. We've got the Chief of Financial Police, we've got the Chief of Tax Administration, we've got the Chiefs of the Organization's Tax Administration Units. In the end, we have people who are department chiefs and we have department heads for preventive control, I'm talking about employee structure. And, now, in this profession, if this is not how we treat the complexity of work, the expertise of certain people who deal with these jobs, we will come into a situation where we have a one-way guide in both our skills and our responsibilities towards work and our tasks. What's important now is that there is no specific speciality supplement defined here, and I think it is necessary, because if we have talked in a series of legal projects about the fight against the gray economy, that supplement is also necessary. The face-to-face of people in these areas with quantity, volume, complexity of work, individual inspectors in the financial police determine only one tax solution of tens of millions, so I think it makes a lot of sense that professional, quality, efficient work, and above all in the part where excise products are represented, is particularly qualified for the work of these people. These are financial police inspectors, preventive control inspectors, market inspectors, labour inspectors. Because we were talking about a law that treats this area, and that area is very weak and represented and treated, that must be said. Therefore, this law does not treat it well. I think it's important to hear the general administration and justice union, especially the judiciary, because that's where that part of these people's control and work ends. Therefore, we should also say how much will be paid by the judge, the judge's intern, an expert associate in the area, and, of course, by the President of the Court. When it comes to the relationship of a part of the state authority, and I would rather say that they are at federal level, I mean, first of all, the PDO, which also performs a control function in the Republic of Serbia, almost identical to the control function of the work carried out by financial police inspectors and we have the fact that the PDO inspector has twice as much personal income as the financial police inspector, and then I say twice as much as the preventive control inspector, and I'm not talking about maybe three times the personal income of a market inspector, who is faced with strong field tasks. Here, let's say, it's now an interesting job as an inspector of the veterinary profession, which spends considerable time on border crossings for foot and foot control. I suppose there must also be some extras and fees for people who have been in control for 24 hours a day in the area. What... [[growls]] Says someone to drive alone. [[sagar-drives only]] I'm not driving at all, I'm very responsible for something I've been doing for years. I know this area perfectly. That's why I think we should listen to each other. I would not talk about the salaries of MPs and state officials because they are not some of the important topics in this law, in my opinion. It is important to address the issue of staff in the state authorities. It's not just over the last ten years that bribery and corruption have appeared, so let's say it belongs to that previous regime. This has existed since the state administration, treated with various kinds of government in all state systems, and always existed as a catchphrase of some kind of government. Only responsible work, high-quality people, well-paid people in those areas and rigorous sanctions can get out of that complicated bench. (President-in-Office - time. ) Of course, in the end, very briefly, since Mr Kovacevic is definitely now, after a series of replicas, saying all the facts, and mentioning SCI, JUL, DOS... (speaks - SPS most)... Take it easy. What does the SPS have to do with Belgrade's city government and the details, and what JUL has to do with the SPS more. So, don't treat it anymore, no effect, gentlemen, no, you don't, you don't talk for nothing. [[GROANING]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6224	I'm setting a break to 15.35 hours. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. The People's MP, Mr Kovacevic, called for the replica. Did you stay on that? You're giving up, okay. [[the ambassador giving up the replica]] The word has a folk MP, Mr Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6226	Dear Members of the People, in 1.1.1998, the law on salaries and salaries of elected, appointed and employed persons was repealed. This is due to the fact that the provisions of the Labour Law could not be applied because of the lack of budgetary resources. And now the pay grade is being proposed. We thought it was a liquid that was in place years ago, but here we come to reintroduce it. Also, the union's largest flows are lifted, collective agreements, which have been arranged for public service salaries, financed from budgets and contributions. You propose this law to regulate the way in which wages, supplements, fees and other receipts of elected, appointed and staff in state bodies, bodies and organisations in the territorial autonomy of local self-government, public services financed from the budget of the Republic, the Autonomous Province and local self-government, public services financed from contributions to compulsory social security, compulsory social security organisations and other bodies and organisations financed from the budget. The salaries of employees are determined on the basis of a base, a coefficient which is multiplied by the base and salary allowance. The bill allows public services from social incomes to increase their salaries by 30% and I don't think that the provision of the law should stand, because there will be disparity of salaries in public services, appointed and elected persons in local self-government, which they finance in the good part of that service. If we want to control budgets, then we need to have rules of conduct regarding wages in state authorities and public services. But I do not agree with the proposed solution, and we are reaching the most controversial member of the proposed law, which is Article 3 which says that the basis and bill for payment of salaries is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We in the SPS disagree with Article 3, because the government is an executive body, not a legislative body. Should someone elected by the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia be elected by us, MPs, should the President of the Republic, who determines the mandater, determine the salary of the Government? I really don't want to talk about the salaries of the Members of the People. Let it be settled the way it is best considered. He is also a controversial member of the 5th law, which determines the pay groups of employees of Article 1 of this law, and the coefficients for the calculation and payment are also determined by the government. The government should be an executive body, not like in this case, to be supreme, and legislative, and executive. As well as Article 3 and Article 5 of the Law should be put out of force and it should be returned to the National Assembly, as a legislative body, to determine the basis for salaries, and coefficients. How to amend the law if the basic elements of the proposed law are not known? Of all the proposed, we only have that salaries will be for elected and appointed persons in the authorities of territorial autonomy and the city of Belgrade up to the coefficient for the calculation and payment of the salaries of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Selected and appointed persons in the city up to the coefficient for the calculation and payment of the salary of the president of the permanent working body of the National Assembly. The elected and appointed persons in municipalities with more than 60,000 inhabitants, up to the coefficient for the billing and payment of the pay of the MP, and so on, to the highest coefficient. Of everything proposed, we only have the highest coefficient, and the coefficient is nowhere in the proposed law. I will refer only to point 4, which says that elected and appointed persons in other municipalities can have a salary of up to 80% of the coefficients for the calculation and payment of the MP on permanent work in the National Assembly. It is not necessary to separate elected and appointed persons in municipalities, because it means that someone who manages a municipality with below 60,000 inhabitants has fewer problems, because the conditions of enforcing, geographical position, demographic structure of the population, underdevelopment or development of these municipalities are different from the municipality to the municipality, and I don't think that such a difference should exist. Because if elected and appointed persons are separated, then there will be a big difference within the meaning of point 5, where salaries of employees in the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government will be highest to the coefficient for the calculation and payment of the salary of an independent professional associate in state bodies. I think employees in the authorities of the administration, with medium professional training, will be the most affected. In particular, I would comment on Article 8, where it is said that the appointments of employees in state bodies, to which the provisions of the Labour Law in State Authorities, laid down specific rules, are appropriate to the names and knowledge of that law. The coefficients for these calls shall be determined by the Government of Article 5 of this Act. I think the government should take into account the complexity of the business, the responsibility and the conditions for doing these jobs when determining the coefficient. In particular, I would refer to the responsibility, complexity and expertise of the tasks carried out by the inspection bodies in the state bodies. Under the current regulation, without the complexity, responsibility of the expertise and conditions of the performance of certain inspection bodies, I think that financial police inspectors should be equalised with individual inspection bodies. In that sense, economic crime inspectors had an unfettered job experience. I really don't want to take away their rights either, and I think they need to stay, but I believe that the financial police in the area of expertise, responsibility and working conditions meet the conditions for her to be assigned an unfettered employment. I know that this issue should be resolved in the Labour Relations Act or in the Law on Control, Identification and Payment of Public Revenue, but this is all in the context of pay and in this sense I have spoken. If we want the rule of law, then we really need to be fair in pay grade. A fair distribution should be carried out in the judiciary, in order for the judiciary to be independent, as Minister Batic is heartily advocated. I think that healthcare workers should be rewarded so that they really have their own material security, and that the teacher has the will and desire to make students a better teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6227	National MP, Mr. Guduric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6228	I'll talk about article 78. The Rules of Procedure, which, among other things, says that when a session day is scheduled, it is taken into account that one day a week is not working. I suggest that the Assembly be appointed and voted that this Monday and all other Mondays should not be working days in advance, so that those who receive pay elsewhere, and not in this assembly, may at least be able to do part of their jobs. So, I'm asking for a vote on Monday at the Assembly to be a rough day.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6229	As for Article 78's injury. ... (Stevan Guduric, from the scene: I did not say that he was a injured member, but that I was talking about Article 78. We'll make a deal in the next week. The word has a folk MP, Mr Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6230	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is correct in Article 78. It leaves the congregation with the possibility of a four - day weekly work and leaving, practically, one working day for some other jobs. However, we have a very large agenda ahead of us. This assembly, of course, is working intensively and is creating serious problems with MPs who have other obligations, but unfortunately, we have not succeeded at the level of parliamentary groups yet to agree on increasing efficiency in our work. The requirement to comply with these requirements is practically to increase efficiency during the remaining working hours of the week. So when we make a deal and we reach agreement on effective work in the congregation, which would allow us to leave one day a week to the MPs to do other tasks, we will be able to apply this congregation provision. I hope that we will be able to talk on Monday at the level of parliamentary groups about the forms of this intensive and efficient work. Unfortunately, we can't comply with that request now, because we won't finish the current session until half of June of the month, if this is how it works. So on Monday, we can cut the discussion of the next agenda point to 5 minutes, and then we can agree on some other forms of mutual concessions, which together would allow us to have one day a week left for other jobs. This way we can't support it, because it would make it even more difficult for society, because there are no laws that need to be passed, in our opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6231	Did you, Mr. Guduric, ask to vote on your proposal? (Stevan Guduric, from the place: Yes. But you don't have a concrete proposal. (Stevan Gudurić, from the site: I suggested that we do not work every Monday. I think a better solution is to make a deal Monday, which we will honor. If you insist, I'll put your proposal to the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal of the MP, Mr. Stevan G. Guduric, not to work Monday. For 62, against 77, abstentions 8, 12 of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of the People's MP Guduric. The word has a folk MP, Mr Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6232	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill of Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, which was sent to the Members of Parliament for consideration, is one law that has been returning very many years ago, because such a bill existed back 50, 60, 70 and more years. A representative of the government in the National Assembly has been appointed Vladan Batic, whom he does not have to explain the proposal and convince us MPs of the justification for such a bill. This is a law signed by Vice-President Vuk Obradovic, General. Normally, the General can only sign what is characteristic of the General, which is one hierarchy. So, one hierarchy, and that's the hierarchy by which General Vuk Obradovic promoted our prime minister to the marshal, so he's the only one in charge of determining how to regulate this matter on salaries in state authorities and public services. In doing so, we must not overlook the fact that the bypassed unions and that the Constitution of the SRJ is violated, in Article 82 and Article 90, and the reasoning of this bill is also problematic, in fact, Article 11, where the Law on Special Rights and the responsibilities of the President of the Republic, which we passed in this assembly a month or two ago. At the same time, the SRS parliamentary group indicated the lack and weakness of the law. I feel that the same fate will happen with this law, that in two months we will get a new bill denying this today's probably adopted bill on workers' rights in the state administration and public enterprises. What is missing in the explanation, which is that the Law on Salary in State Authorities "The Official Journal" No. 53/95 did not cease to apply on 1.1.1998, as outlined in the explanation of the draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services. It is still in force, and for these reasons it is necessary to provide for the termination of its validity in the final provisions of the Bill of Salaries and Public Services. If this proposal is not accepted, then we'll get into a situation where we have two laws on salaries in state authorities. What is most characteristic of this law is now in Article 3, where the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then, in Article 5, the classification of payment groups for Members of the 1st law, the coefficients for the account and payment of salaries are determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Under this bill, and as usual, we would get an amendment to the draft law by the Committee on Labour and Combat and Social Affairs, where it is said that Article 5, the draft law on salaries in state bodies and public services at the end of the sentence is replaced by a dot and they add words - employees in authorities and organisations of territorial autonomy and local self-government. This would put one pressure on them by the Duke’s congregation, so that they would meet and they would arrange this matter themselves. We should remind ourselves that our Constitution has been given the arrangement of this state, and that the government is divided into legislative, executive and judicial. In addition, the law requires that we accept that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is above this republic's parliament, which is contrary to the Constitution of Serbia. Then, the same gets mixed up in the problem of this third division of power, which is the judiciary, where it also gets into that problem. They're not the proposed coefficients, nor are the default classes that bring our country back to this area. Furthermore, the DOS claimed that it advocated decentralisation, which it explained through previous legal projects. But it's only one illusion, because this bill introduces a classic centralization and centralization of a hierarchical or military type, which determines who will, what or how to do. This is therefore defined so that the entire state apparatus and not only the state apparatus could be controlled, but everything financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. A few days ago, we adopted a draft law supplementing the Labour Relations Act, where it is clearly laid down to the knowledge that are both employers and employees, as well as criminal provisions for the non-fulfilment of those obligations. Here in this bill there are no criminal provisions and much more obligations towards the state have been made by the employer, as well as by the one who has two to five employees, rather than by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who hereby determines receipts for around 420,000, 430,000 employees, and thus a large population of citizens living on these salaries. All of this suggests that this law is very bad, that it should return to the government of the Republic of Serbia, arrange it and as such deliver to the MPs for consideration. These allegations have been made that I can propose to Members that they refuse to vote on this bill of wages in state authorities and public services.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6233	Thank you. Since no one has applied for the discussion, according to the Rules of Procedure, please welcome Mr. Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6234	Once again on Article 78, when the National Assembly has not declared to allow us to work for a day at the firm, then I ask that the National Assembly decide that all MPs will be on permanent duty in the Assembly, that it will pay us, so we will sit down for all five days and there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6235	It's not the subject of decision-making here and it's not even a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you pointed out. Okay. So, since there are no more applications for discussion, I'm concluding a principled search. I put to the vote the draft law on salaries in public authorities and public services in principle. For 106, against 47, four abstentions, four did not vote, a total of 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic and Petar Jojic. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6236	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is how I address all of you, except for one gentleman sitting here in the fourth row, the second seat, who was so free to tell me at my age on several occasions something Meho Omerovic here would repeat, but I really can't. It's clearly the most obvious thing about him, and I didn't provoke him to say anything like that...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6237	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, you're speaking as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6238	This is the congregation building and these halls, so everyone has the right to say what they think and what happens to them in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6239	He can't say, you've come out as an applicant for the amendment, to talk about your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6240	Yes, and I am taking the opportunity to say what is happening while other MPs here speak for this speaker. The others insult the messengers. In principle, we tried to convince the government, although the government is not here, she has a lot of work to do, I guess Vladan Batic is looking for a lost hekler, and that's not such a small damage, today a man and a pen when he loses, he cuts himself, let alone when he loses a hekler. (Glass from the Hall: Amend. I don't know who we're talking to, because there's no one here from the government to plead possible under these amendments. Here, my intention was to delete a member of this bill's 3rd draft law, that the basis for the billing and payment of salaries is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I explained this by the government taking on our legislative role, even though it is an executive body. We have already heard in the debate in the principle of argument that this is not how the salary law should stand, and rightly to tell you, I think the complete law completely loses the sense of its name being -- a bill of wages in state authorities and public services. He might be able to bear the title of a bill that we put in charge of the government to pass some law, since the law can't, a pay regulation in state authorities. We have no confidence not only in this government, but in any government that outside Parliament decides on all parameters related to the base, to the pay grade, to the coefficients of such important services as state authorities, such as public services, where over 400,000 people work. I'm afraid these solutions, which are foreseen by this law, lead to a negative selection of personnel, that we will have the migration of personnel from those smaller environments to larger ones, and we haven't had the opportunity to talk about it, because we didn't have in law everything this law should contain. So, based on which the base would be determined, what it depends on, when it will change and for what reason, what pay classes they are, how someone will advance from one pay grade to the other, how to get away from that equation and detimulation a better result. All that is missing from this bill is that it would be a really good law, not like this one hollow material, which is practically merely the basis for the government to regulate all this through some regulation, although there is neither by the Constitution nor by the Government of Power. Of course, as much as those who are employed in both state authorities and public services will be pleased, we will have the opportunity to see, but it is a pity that those who advocate some wise legislation are delivering such draft laws to the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6241	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6242	Article 78, so since we're so far behind, I suggest we work on Sunday to make up for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6243	Please, the next time you look for a word in the Rules of Procedure, it'll be a real breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6244	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when Article 78 is commented. The Rules of Procedure think each of us can answer and discuss, or suggest something that has been given here as a possibility. I agree with my colleague Guduric in one piece. All of us here in the assembly have some work to do. Someone here came from a private company, someone from a public company, we have the presidents of municipalities, and so on. Even if we were unemployed that one day a week we should have to have to contact the citizens, to have some consultations with some experts who are smarter than us and so on. I don't think it's even unserious if one day is asked to be unworkable and I think if we continue like this right now with this bickering that we've made one serious topic unserious. Many of us have already scheduled other activities for Monday by analogy last Friday, and I think it is not unserious at all and should simply, if nothing else, suggest that Mr. Jovanovic propose this time and that this Monday be unworkable, and then resolve something more permanent. It's all right, but if we continue after every announcement that someone's talking on the subject, we haven't achieved anything. So, this Monday, we don't work, and next thing you know, we're talking about a more permanent solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6245	Mr Lukic, we have already voted on this proposal and we cannot vote on the same proposal twice. We've had one day off this week, and next week we'll make a deal, and you can't unarped talk about whether it's going to be hurt or not next week. Is there anyone else following the amendment, which they submitted in the same text, Petar Jojic and Gordana Pop-Lazic, reporting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I was really surprised by the behaviour and the attitude of the chairman of the SRS MP Gordani Pop-Lazic, because as far as I've been in this assembly, and I think it's been more than eight years, Toma Nikolic may know better, I've never heard this, but the MPs of the authorities have confirmed it to me that they've heard it, I've never heard anyone say anything like that about any lady, and you're pretending like nothing happened, and you're capable of making the biggest scandals. And what does Nikolic throw at us all the time? Dear ladies, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6247	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6248	Please don't throw it at me. I don't throw any of them away, and I don't say anything from the scene. From the pay phone only when you provoke me or when you're looking for an answer, but even then I always make sure I don't insult you, and I don't think I'm going to say a tenth of what she had to hear and put up with Gordana Pop - Lazic from your MP. Let me talk about the amendment. This amendment of SRS MPs Gordana Pop - Lazic and Petar Jojic indeed makes sense, especially because of the fact that we have repeatedly pointed to the change of jurisdiction, i.e. the taking over of powers from the hands of the legislative authorities into the hands of the executive authorities, in particular the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it seems to me that this member is showing it in the best possible way. If the amendments of Serbian Radical People's MPs, Mr Jojic and Mrs Lazic were accepted, we would be able to solve a major problem. By law, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would then regulate the matter under which the Government of the Republic of Serbia would have to behave, and not the Government of the Republic of Serbia would have had its own regulations, decisions, conclusions or any other sublegal legal acts to have a higher authority or a greater prerogative of power than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the Supreme Legislative Body. In this regard, we believe that Article 3 is unnecessary, while at the same time obligationing the Government of the Republic of Serbia to prepare either the new text of the law or the new amendment, or perhaps the Committee could prepare new amendments immediately, as we did with the introduction of greater rights of territorial autonomy and local self-government, even obviously without the knowledge of the Legislative Committee or without any decision of the Legislative Committee, and that neither representatives of the Labour Committee, the Boring and Social Issues came out for this speaker, for the speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to explain to us why such an amendment had been made, whether it was under the pressure of the Vojvodina separatists of Nenada Chanka or any other reason. So we in the SRS think it would be good to accept this amendment. He would disable, of course, the adoption of the law in this sense, because I speak for those who have not read, so that it would not be the government that determines the basis, but it is understood that this would be done by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we think it would be an incomparable better solution than it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6249	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? If not, I am putting the amendment submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Gordana Pop-Lazic to the vote. For 43, against 108, the abstention of three, did not vote 11, a total of 165 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word on this amendment? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 42, against 102, with four abstentions, not 18, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 5th amendment in the same text. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6250	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I see that individual MPs of the DOS do not lack courage when they are physically weaker than they are. I have submitted the amendment to Article 5 of this Act and I have proposed that Article 5 of this Law be completely deleted. The government cannot, by its own free will, determine, without any criteria, paying classes that will be in the authorities of the state administration. This member is allowed to even experiment with the government, even manipulate workers in the authorities of the state administration. This matter should, either by this law, or by someone else who would be in this procedure, be fully regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6251	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Stevan Ž. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6252	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I wasn't talking about her at all, Madam Chairman, but she's a member of 78th, and I suggest that the Assembly declares Tuesday a day off. I'm asking you to vote on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6253	Mr. Guduric, I am obliged to give you an explanation, there is a member of the 95th Rules of Procedure who says, "To a national MP who wants to talk about injury, not injuries, this Rules of Procedure, the President gives his word... ". You mean you point out, which, fourth time, the same member as multiple injuries and you suggest every time... What's the matter? You have the right to contact only if the Rules of Procedure is injured, you will not answer if the Rules of Procedure is respected. You think the Rules of Procedure are hurt because we haven't determined the next week that's going to be a day off. (Stevan Ž. Gudirić, from the post: On the basis of Article 78, I propose to the Assembly, that is a big difference. I put the motion to vote, MP Stevan G. Guduric, for Tuesday to be a day off. For 45, against 99, with 5 abstentions, 16 did not vote, 165 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal and Tuesday will not be a day off. Is anyone else answering for a word on the amendment submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic, did we move on to that amendment, a moment just... I'm putting it to a vote... And you answered, I'm sorry. Don't just get mad.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6254	On the contrary, I'm getting fond of you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 5, if this is the case with what the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs of the National Assembly has accepted, it doesn't make any sense. They become completely contradictory members of the 5th and 6th of this law. I'll read it to you, if some of you haven't noticed and I'd be begging, and it would be good if someone from the government were present to be able to react on the spot. In Article 5, with the amendment you accepted to go hand in hand to the duchy separatists, it is said "except for employees of the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government". Then, in article 6, you also set out a step-by-step - employed by the authorities of territorial autonomy of local self-government, up to the cost of calculating the salaries of an independent professional associate in state bodies. It's really a fundamental contradiction, and I'm asking someone to take this and read it, so this kind of thing doesn't get adopted, because we don't know which member is going to apply, which are totally the opposite. Two diametric members of the law, side by side, and that's something that's amazing. I ask you to respect this by the MPs of the majority, to accept this amendment by the MPs of the SRS, especially because they are very controversial motives to change what the Government has already regulated by Article 6, and now, in a different way, regulate Article 5, which goes hand in hand, first of all, to the Vojvodina autonomists and separatists. It's obvious who this applies to, it's obvious who asked for it, so I'd pray it doesn't get adopted, but at the same time to correct this elemental contradiction that really doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6255	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? If not, I put the amendments submitted by Mr Veroljub Arsic and Mrs Natasa Jovanovic to the vote. For 43, against 103, three abstentions, not voting 16, a total of 165 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs submitted the amendment to Article 5. Since this amendment was adopted by the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, which was agreed by the Government's representative, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: It is simply impossible to apply the law. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment. Is anyone applying for a discussion, according to this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm very sorry you didn't really accept the amendment of the SRS because I don't know how you're going to apply this law. Whether to apply Article 5 or 6. What is the text of the law, which will be applied by a member of the law. It's really totally amazing. And I didn't make anything up here, I can tell you again. I want you to understand what people are about. Two completely opposing members have been accepted and no one knows who determines what, whether one or the other. Whether or not they have the right to do so, the authorities of the territorial autonomy of local self-government or not. Because they're completely opposite. Now let me say something about Mr Tomislav Nikolic's amendment to the People's MP. He, having already been illegally and anti-businessally deprived of his right to speak, has asked for something we have asked for in the principle debate several times, which is that the coefficients for the billing and payment of wages are determined by law. It seems to us that at least that would be something that is understandable, and at the same time something tolerable for the DOS majority in the National Assembly. We do not know what is lost except that we are giving the National Assembly certain information that belongs to it. It seems to me that this would be completely logical, understandable and normal, and it seems to me that some of the representatives of the government have already made such a statement. I think that by accepting this, we would sort of correct the adverse consequences that apply primarily by trampling the Constitution, as the highest legal act, by giving the Serbian Government certain powers, which, according to the Constitution of Serbia, as a lex superior, certainly do not belong to the latter, I call on you to vote for this amendment. With that, which I warn you once more, and I ask you to read it. Please some people, I hope there is someone in the professional service to read the members of the 5th and 6th of this law. If the adopted has become an integral part of the text of the law, the amendment to which the Committee of the National Assembly has delivered, according to the Rules of Procedure, it must become an integral part of the text of the law, and this Article 6 has been adopted, they are in complete contrast, people. It's impossible for such a law to remain in legal traffic. Please take another look at it and make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6257	Thank you. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6258	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a good opportunity to, although it would not be a precedent, have already done so several times, accept the amendment of the opposition's representative and thus demonstrate our willingness to support every good proposal and deny all those who consider us politically vain. This is a good amendment. He doesn't question the fundamental character of this law. It corrects certain contradictions that are the consequences of the circumstances in which we live. Indeed, there is a lot of room for criticism in terms of the integration of certain members of this law and the concrete rights and freedoms that are guaranteed to us as MPs, or the Assembly itself, by the current Constitution. But unfortunately, we live in a country where the current constitution is not in line with the SRJ Constitution, which was brought in 1992. It's been ten years to agree on really important things, so today we're in a situation where we have to pass laws like this. This amendment lays down the basics, coefficients, that is, the billing and payment of salaries by law. That's good. This leaves the Assembly with the possibility of having another discussion, as the government implements job systematization, it was not able to complete the job within such a short time, which, of course, does not essentially question the other members of the law, and above all I think of Article 3, which says that the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries is determined by the Government, and it will determine it in accordance with the law, as well as Article 7, in which it is stated in accordance with the Act of the Government of Article 5 of this Law, the level of the coefficient in the state bodies determines the Government for the persons who appoints. So we're going to have to interpret this term - the determination, the interpretation, in accordance with the law that we're going to adopt here in the Assembly and in accordance with the amendment that we need to support. In this way, we will reconcile the two contradictions and find an acceptable solution, and it seems to me that the opposition has criticised this contradiction resulting from this law, but also for those of us who are trying to bring order into an area where there has been no legal basis in the last three years to regulate such a kind of policy. Here, once again, it was not to play the Constitution itself, to challenge or restrict the rights of workers, and especially not to reduce the ability to control the Assembly, and this is what we are accepting by accepting this amendment in an opportunity to prove concretely.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6259	You have no right, you are not offended, you are even supported (receives to Ambassador Nikolic, who asks for a word). I don't know why. You don't have the right to answer a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, you're entitled to a replica. You can't answer the phone after the Rules of Procedure's injury, you can only call it a replica. Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6260	Ladies and gentlemen, we have attended a very unusual situation for the president of the DOS parliamentary group to come out for the first time for this pay phone and accept the amendment of one of the opposition MPs. (Glasses - not the first. Maybe it's the other one. But it's an exception that doesn't confirm the rule. However, the way it was done is not good. The way it was done should be seen and spoken for this speaker. The MP and president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, said this is a good amendment, and thus said 250 past amendments are no good. I think that all MPs here in this House should weigh down really every word for this speaker, trying to ensure ourselves that we are doing the task for which the citizens of Serbia have chosen us. When it comes to a concrete amendment, the fact is that the government had its proposal, that the proposal had been changed on the parent board by one MP and with the government's consent and that it meant the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia's powers had been abolished in part of the territory. With this amendment, which is now accepted by Mr Jovanovic and which we Socialists will support, the government of the Republic of Serbia will have the authority in the entire territory of Serbia on which at the moment, given the non-implementation of Resolution 1244, it cannot have. But let's not say that, insisting that this is a good amendment, that we send from another plan a message to the citizens that all other amendments are not good, because also how could we list here the great amendments that have been rejected and which citizens are already feeling on their skin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6261	Is anyone else applying for a discussion? National MP Tomislav Nikolic insists he gets the word. Mr. Nikolic, I'm not giving you my word. Let me tell you -- Article 102, please, Mr. Nikolic, let's make a nice deal. "The measure of confiscation does not apply to the right of the MP to a replica in the course of the session. It would say you're entitled to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know what the president has decided. I'm reading the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Nikolich... I have no right to give you my word. I'm sorry, but I can't give you a word for hurting the Rules of Procedure (Tomislav Nikolic insists all the time. I don't have to and I can't. Don't come any closer, don't make... Your word has been taken from you. You can't, Mr. Nikolic, I didn't allow you to approach the speaker and I can't give you my word on the Rules of Procedure because it doesn't belong to you. I can't give it to you. I understand everything, but that's the procedure and I respect the procedure. Thank you for trying and for wanting to help us, but I really can't give you my word. Is there anyone else answering this amendment for a word? Here you go, straight to the line, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6263	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, there are psychological tests, and these psychological tests measure the ability of logical conclusion. You know, if one amendment is said to be good, it's only thought of that amendment, and nothing disqualifies the other amendment. If it is said that one of the MPs spoke well, nothing is questioned by the speech of all his predecessors, if we say that today is a pleasant day, we do not think that our whole life has been unpleasant, even though we have been a good opposition. So we can treat everything spoken for by the congregation speaker in this way, but in itself, it is always more and more about those who in a strange way are recognized in circumstances and in life. I'm obliged to read it to you, I thought I'd avoid it if it's possible, but I have no right to such a thing, a response from the Federal Customs Administration to Mr. Ivkovic, and what he said here today at the Assembly's pay phone. It was about the ability of the new leadership of the federal administration of customs to overcome its predecessors in crime. Apparently, Mr. Curtis was more involved in the Federal Treasury in the first quarter of last year than in the new leadership of the federal customs administration. I am obliged to read you a statement from the Federal Customs Administration and thus remove some responsibility from us, because we are the ones who are in the Federal Government and the Federal Parliament supporting Mr. Begovic and Customs leadership. "The federal customs administration paid a billion and 830 million to the federal budget in the first quarter of 2000. In the first quarter of 2001, 5 billion and 114 million were paid. "At the same time, Customs notes that in the last year import duties were collected, which were not in accordance with the law and which were returned by the Federal Customs Administration in this year to executive solutions. It's a sum of 673 million. Also, part of the commitments in 2000 was regulated by a legal compensation of billions and 300 million dinars, which is also being returned by the Federal Customs Administration today. These amounts have not entered the amount that has been announced here, as the amount of funds that have been paid into the federal budget. Finally, I would remind you that Mr. Curtis was raised and open trial because he damaged the federal budget for 200 million marks and 1,300 billion dinars, in a period of which I believe, Mr. Ivkovic, you know more than I do, since we were then an opposition, and possibly, with Carina, we could have had ties when we crossed the border.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6264	He has the word MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6265	As for the commentary that it is a good amendment, I think it is understandable for anyone who has listened to me, and Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, if a representative of the majority parliamentary coalition, who has 176 members, allows himself to have 72 members in parliament, all day long today, and where the opposition gives the quorum, that parliament can at all work, assesses the need to come out specifically for a pay phone and praise the amendments, to anyone who deals with logic, to tell preambles and conclusions, so if we want to go further into logic theory, it is clear that he said that everything else is wrong. As for the Federal Customs Administration, I am glad that Mr. Begovic, of the three billion and 700 million dinars paid into the federal budget, in January - March 2000, in the period of NATO bombing and a terrible embargo, managed to reject everything he estimated illegal and will repay, and you calculate how miserable five billion are compared to that, in January - March, and when the country is internationally recognised, when all flows are fine, the amount should be five times higher.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6266	Mr. Ivkovic, let me tell you, you called as president of the parliamentary group, and you were already talking about this amendment, and then you used the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6267	Let me tell you, look at the sessions that Mr. Martian runs sometimes, so you'll understand the difference between you and him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6268	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I would like to put the amendment tabled by MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 128, against 14 abstentions, 5 did not vote 19, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposed amendment most of the votes. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The applicant for the amendment, meanwhile, withdrew the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has been withdrawn. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6269	It is not under the influence of these colleagues who have been throwing themselves out of this booth, obviously that the end of the week has been the end and that it has affected the mood of all of us who are in this assembly, but it is a real force to think -- whether man can even explain from this pay phone any amendment, especially when he sees what the president's reactions are. This hasn't been seen in the Assembly yet. He who heads the assembly, shows his anxiety to the MPs, even goes so far as to (speaks from the hall: theme) - it's all a topic, only you slowly, calm down, not even an MP whose amendment has been accepted, to his intervention to help the Assembly from this pay phone, not even finds it appropriate to let him say a word. You guys with glasses, I'm sorry, but I have to explain. Here, look, since the amendment of Tomislav Nikolic, SRS, to Article 5, was adopted, then it is unnecessary to explain the amendment to Article 6, but the essence of the amendment and the addition is that the coefficient, which is calculated in relation to the MP, is kind of corrected. There's one people who says if you don't appreciate yourself, they won't appreciate you. Look at the coefficients, look where the MP is in this congregation. He says, the parameters the Government took, and among them is responsibility, including the complexity of work and working conditions. Gentlemen, let's see now who's bigger and who's more responsible, do the MPs in this assembly, who pass laws, legal acts or a designated person in local self-government, say, president of the executive board, how do you like to say it yourself - the presidents of the local government? Who has more responsibility? Responsibilities must be in proportion to the same function, or level of government. If the elected person at the local level, not to speak at the province level, has more responsibility, then you say it's an indirect recognition that it's a higher level of government. As a matter of fact, you should never be used in examples of names, but you have examples as much as you want. The other day I found out that this guy who comes out here in front of the Legislative Committee, that he's the man who's the president of the city government in Belgrade. (loud from the O.R.): That's not true. ) Good, the Finance Committee. Anyway, he's working on the money. Where to Democrats than about money. But you watched and we heard a man moaning over Belgrade's fate -- there's not enough money, no city traffic can be restored, no infrastructure can be maintained. It's obviously about incompetence. Here's where incompetence is. The city of Belgrade daily has an inflow of money for a negligible 10% or 15% less than the complete Republic of Serbia. Not only are budget funds accounted for, but everything that flows into public utility companies and other companies that are under the authority of the Assembly. But it's obviously an incompetence of power. It now turns out that the person who is in that position has not only greater responsibility, but that they will also have greater income from the MPs who in this assembly pass laws and bear the responsibility for the passing of laws. Not to get into the details, but each one works in his own way in this congregation. There are different kinds of work and activities of MPs and MPs, but as MPs, we bear responsibility. Now it turns out that the level of responsibility is, for example, the president of municipalities that have over 60,000 inhabitants. And in the principle debate, we Serbian radicals have told you that when you take the example of Europe, the European Community, give an example of where it is in Europe. Where is such an example that an MP in a country is at the level of the president of the 60,000-strong municipality? There's nowhere to go, gentlemen. You've determined these coefficients and you've got to admit. As you gave in to autonomists, separatists, it is seen by the anxiety of some sitting at the chair, so you also gave in to the lobby of local powerful people who are at the level of the city of Belgrade and other cities or municipalities. (President: Time. If you had looked at it realistically, at least you would have thought about protecting yourself, respecting yourself and your job, no matter how hard it is or how hard it is, so others will appreciate you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6270	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about Article 6. (I'd like to ask you for some attention, because I don't think it's insignificant.) By accepting the amendment of Tomislav Nikolic or the SRS parliamentary group, I must only point to the fact that we have not corrected the contradiction between Articles 5 and 6 of the moment when the amendment of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs was accepted. Namely, they are still in complete contradiction with Article 5, which says (I will read it to you now, so please pay attention to how it is amended, so this is not the basic text of the law, but rather the one that is fundamentally basic, but in the papers it is not, but you have to add that amendment): "Separation in the payment groups of members of the 1st law and the coefficients for the account and payment of salaries is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia", and it is added: "except for employees in the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government". In Article 6, you have: "Operations of employees in the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government are determined by applying the basics set out in Article 3 of this Act". It is then even said: "Employed in the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government, most of all to the coefficient for the calculation and payment of the salary of an independent professional associate in state bodies". Two members are completely out of line. Please have someone pay attention to that. When it comes to this amendment, I think it's a very principled proposal, something that can be accepted and that the parliamentary majority shouldn't be any problem. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed to determine the coefficients in such a way, in which it says it will be the most elected and appointed persons for the city of Belgrade, and yet it is the opposite to the previous member, but it does not matter, so it says "the most important factor for the calculation and payment of the salaries of the National Assembly vice-presidents". I must say that I find it extremely charming and valuable and Mrs Micic and Mrs Comic, I apologize to Mr Maravić, I am not weird, so I can't say it for him, but in any case we don't think that we should in this way separate and underestimate others in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, MPs of the National Assembly, because I don't see any big difference between us, with all due respect to all the vice presidents of the National Assembly. It's not about anything special, it's not about anyone getting anything more because of it or anything less. It is simply that it seems to me that this is how the rights of the MPs of the people are equated. It's similar to point two where you talk about the president of a permanent working body. So that's the president of the board. Most often, as far as I know, he also has special supplements, so it wouldn't be necessary in this way to separate him by law. Since I am now finishing around this amendment, I ask you once again, first of all, the MPs of the majority, to look at Article 5 and Article 6 and to make some alignment, because such members of the law cannot survive in legal traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6272	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? Nobody. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. For 41, against 102, four abstentions, the vote was not 16 out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs submitted an amendment to Article 9 of the amendment. Since this amendment was adopted by the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, which was agreed by a representative of the Government, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6273	Mr. Guduric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6274	Mr. President, since you weren't here, we talked about not working on Mondays, so we don't work on Tuesdays, work on Sundays.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6275	I know everything when I'm not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6276	You don't know this. The first time anyone from the opposition is going to suggest what you suggested several times so far when you wanted to speed it up. So, I suggest, on the basis of Article 79, that today's session doesn't last until 7.30, but until we finish the agenda. When we want to work, let's see who lasts as long as we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6277	You have already objected to such proposals being made at the beginning of work. I would like to vote on Mr Guduric's proposal to be done today by the end of the agenda of this session. For 37, against 91, with four abstentions, it did not vote 35, a total of 167 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal by Mr Guduric. I'd like to ask you, and perhaps it's inappropriate that, since I've come here now, I'm intervened over the debate that was being held at the previous point. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that when an amendment is reached which is suspected of causing and leaving consequences on the legislative proposal and thus obtaining contradictory provisions, that a pause be made and that the Legislative Committee, and there is no chairman of the Committee here, should be clarified, that the Committee should look at this matter and that it should not adopt a law that would really contain contradictory provisions. It's about being a law that no doubt properly represents the opinion of the majority. I'd like to ask you, and I'd suggest, or I'd like to set a break, if there are any members here, in order to know how much time it takes. Please let the members raise their hands. He's got enough number. I'd like the Bureau of the Third Floor to meet the Legislative Committee. I think it's enough for this question for 15-20 minutes and we can continue our work at 1800 hours. [[After break - 18.15 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the fact that we have no quorum yet, I suggest that the Vice-President of the Legislative Committee inform you of what is agreed on this committee. As a consequence, whether we have a quorum or not, you'll see that it's the same, so we'll discuss further, possibly further work. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6278	Dear People's MPs, the Committee has considered the situation following the adoption of several amendments. He concluded that further consultations with the legislator should be carried out at this time, which is not within this short period of time. , further consultations with the legislator should be carried out, and this is not possible within such a short period of time. [[from the O.R.: you can't hear]] The Committee proposes that, within the meaning of Article 135, legal-technical drafting, or editorials of this proposed text, the debate on this point should be terminated and work continued after the alignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-11-0.u6279	We don't have a quorum yet, so we won't be able to decide on that, but we'll have a situation where we'll interrupt the session due to the lack of quorum. On Monday, therefore, following a proposal from the Committee, it will first decide on a proposal for the National Assembly to stop by adopting the draft law in general, to move to the 17th point of the agenda, to continue to work until the relevant committees and representatives of the Government agree on the text and possibly, in accordance with Article 141. The Rules of Procedure shall submit a specific amendment to regulate the contradictions created by the adoption of the amendments. We interrupt the session and continue Monday at 10.00 hours.
