ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14158	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the need for the President of the Assembly to prove that he is capable of running the National Assembly, but he cannot lead it through the violations of the Rules of Procedure as easily as he did and did by asking the service to count the MPs in the hall. I do not know on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure you have done so, Mr. President, since you have the same rights as all the other MPs; and especially the right to see that the electronic voting system shows that the quorum does not exist, since you have the right to ask to count yourself. First, it was necessary to establish that the electronic system was not correct, then we might argue that it was, that would be discussed, we would invite an expert to determine whether the electronic system works or not. But simply, when you see that there are not enough DOS MPs, not even with fictitious cards in the upper part of the hall uninterrupted in the parliamentary units, you forcefully count the MPs of the opposition who are not obliged to provide you with quorum. You know, the quorum needs to provide the one who cares about the law being passed today. We don't care if any of the laws you propose are passed and that's why we don't provide you with a quorum. But this is just for the public, get as much as you want, you're never enough in the O.R. to hold a session of the National Assembly. That's the problem of this country. It can't be settled on opposition, it's the sin of those in power. So, Mr. President, ignore these manners, try to implement your decision to punish MPs who do not attend your sessions, admit that that meeting with the heads of Parliament, yours, did not bear fruit and do not provide quorum through the MPs of the opposition. No parliament in the world does that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14159	Since you didn't point to a member of the Rules of Procedure's breach, I have nothing to put to the vote. You know very well that we've been having a similar discussion about this issue for months, having empty conversations. It's about the fact that MPs are obliged when they're in the O.R. to insert identification cards. All MPs don't do that. I don't mind representatives, MPs of the opposition not being in the O.R. and entering the O.R. when the assembly majority provides quorum. Well, go ahead, sit in the hallway and wait, but you can't sit here and beat up the congregation every day with the same things. I don't mind, go outside and sit outside, or go inside and insert the identification cards. (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: You're beaten. ) You can throw me, shame be upon you, these are your obligations under the Rules of Procedure, and in that part of the Rules of Procedure has not been amended from the time you brought it. So, you can fight me for free, that's just the way it is. There are 146 MPs in this room right now, and we're having a debate about whether there's a quorum or there's no quorum. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14160	I would ask you, Mr. President, not to use the terms that offend the dignity of the National Assembly, especially not to use them when you refer them to a woman, because it is a disgrace. It only speaks of how good a man you are. Even though it is opposed to you as a messenger of the people, respect what is in the matter of a lady. Leave your expressions for your house, for your political party, for the street, for the pub. There are warnings to the MPs here for nothing, without any offensive words. When you turn off the topic, you give a warning that you say it costs, and you are here on two occasions, read the stenogram, use rude expressions, inadmissible for the president of the National Assembly, sent to the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic. I'm asking the Assembly to put you on vote to give you a warning of behavior from the Presidential Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14161	By what member of the Rules of Procedure? There's no member. (Tomislav Nikolic: Don't worry about me but run a session.) I ask which member of the Rules of Procedure. By the way, someone's a gentleman, someone's a lady, not by what he's written, a circled M or Z there in the birth certificate, but by how he behaves. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Nada Kolundžija, Vasilija Pavicevic, Radmilo Milošević, Milos Lukić, Višnja Nežić, Nenad Lemajić, Slobodan Tomović, Marin Krešić, Branimir Trajković, Dejan Mihajlov, Mihajlo Jagodić, Branko Bešević, Milos Radivojčević, Ratimir Svirčević, Karolj Pal, Živica Predojev, Branislav Pomorički, Bojana Aleksic, Milutin Salesović and Boško Ničić. I would like to inform you that the sittings are attended by the President, the Vice-President, the Ministers and the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of Transport Laws in SOCIAL COMMUNITY You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Srdjan Petrovic, Dragan Markovic, Zivko Selaković, Goran Vesic, Tomislav Nikolic, Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Aleksandar Vučić, Vojkan Tomić, Đura Lazić, Golub Rajić, Jovan Todorovic, Miomir Ilic and Zoran D. Nikolic, Rade Bajić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milos Nesović and Joca Arsic, as well as the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Is there a proposal to extend the time of the debate in principle? If he doesn't, I'll say we're working on a time-set Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to deliver a list of MPs, speakers on this law in the context of a debate in principle. Is there anyone else who can file the list? If there isn't one, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the promoter want a word? The word is made by Minister Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14162	Good day first of all, this is the first of the traffic laws to be in the Republic Assembly, and we thought that in their change we would be changing the existing Road Transport Act. He was the most urgent one over the summer, but we didn't get to the agenda. Transport laws in road transport from 1990 and 1994, which ceased to apply by their 1995 amendment, were foreseen to be responsible for law enforcement and law enforcement by the Republic, i.e. the provinceal authority, can control transport related to international, inter-republic, republican and inter-urban traffic. All these powers at that time were transferred to the Republic for one simple reason that there was no road traffic inspection at the federal level at that time. However, the applicable law has established compliance with federal legislation, and only powers in the area of internal road traffic in the territory of the Republic of Sribje have been established during the republic's inspection. From this, of course, it is clear that the inspection of the Republic of Serbia does not have the legal opportunity to control the traffic coming from another republic. In doing so, I have one more thing to say, and that is that the Republic of Montenegro's inspection has absolutely the possibility of controlling international, inter-republic and inter-monetary traffic, which, of course, puts the Republic of Serbia's inspection in a subordinate position. The matter of inter-republic transport has not been regulated by federal or republican law so far. The Republic Ministry has sent a request to the federal ministry to regulate the area with a proposal to install it as a special chapter in the Law on International Transport in Road Traffic, to which we have received an explicit answer that it is the sole jurisdiction of the Republic. Also, commercial chambers for the last 10 years have been factually synchronising driving orders in inter-republic traffic, although since 1995 there has been a erasure of the provisions of Articles 3 and 4 of the then applicable law, which they actually had the right to do so. I am talking about the chambers of commerce of Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro, which are now performing a practical alignment of driving orders. What I've said so far is about legal legislation. However, there are a number of traffic security reasons why this area must definitely be regulated. First of all, there are a large number of wild carriers that are not covered by the factual alignment of the driving orders of the chambers of commerce which are now doing so, and since the Republic's inspection has no control, we are simply unable to protect the economic interests of the carriers that have regulated their driving schedules and which are registered in the chambers of commerce. The second phenomenon that exists, it's a cabotage phenomenon, it's a new term in this law, and it's actually a cross-border transport in internal road traffic when inter-republic traffic is being made. So, one who transports, for example from Montenegro, has a fixed line, transports both in Serbia's territory between the places, and those places are not in its schedule and planned to be included. In this way, it directly damages our carriers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Third, the irregularity of inter-republic transport affects the threat of road safety in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because our inspectors are unable to exercise control of established laws and prescribed conditions for public transport and transport for their own purposes. All of these phenomena are essentially the form of a "grey economy" in the use of the Republic of Serbia's traffic market, which illegally pours out funds belonging to the Republic of Serbia's budget. There's one more thing we predicted by this law, i.e. amending laws, which is to provide opportunities and equalising all inspectors, both urban and local, to exercise traffic control and passenger control. So much for me for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14163	Is there any word from the committees in charge? No, I don't. Presidents of parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mr. Pavlovic, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14164	Mr. President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Madam Ministers, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us the law on amendments to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So it's about changing and supplementing the law that was passed in 1995, as a transitional solution at a time when sanctions against our country were in place. However, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications have promised, and we have rightly expected a new law on road transport in road transport, which would meet the conditions of fiddling in the present and future times and have been in the right sense of reform law, with which we will finally leave the current overrun road transport organisation system and catch up with Europe, as our government otherwise advocates in other areas. We expected, therefore, a law that would lay new foundations for road transport organisations, without administrative disciplines, without centralised decision-making and control, which have proved inefficient in practice so far. However, we have received a proposal to amend and supplement the Transport Act itself in road transport, which, in the organisation of transport, and I mean in the first place, we are further away from Europe and our nearest neighbours, and there is no new policy or new traffic development strategy. The basic characteristic of the bill is that in general it exudes repression and that the majority of changes and additions are aimed at giving greater powers and facilitating the work of inspection authorities and introducing one-off penalties for infringements committed. So, criminal measures, as far as we know, there are almost no countries in Europe. For some of the prescribed measures, the problem is also the possibility of their selective application, which is indicated by the practice so far with a number of obvious and famous examples they know, of course, and by the promoters. Such repressive measures, which are proposed by these amendments and additions to the Law, do not exist in any other area of traffic, let alone in any other economic activity. This, in my opinion, is also a real obstruction of the new Privatisation Act, because under such legal conditions for carrying out transport in road transport there will be no entry of foreign capital into companies dealing with these activities, especially passengers. So, instead of reforming the area of adjustment, I think, first of all, of passengers, to create the most favourable conditions for privatisation, these legal changes are proposed to give greater authority to inspection, the possibility of pressure and full control by the state authorities is being created. In my opinion, the basic thing to be defined by these amendments and additions to the Law is to regulate mutual relations within the framework of action, as well as to determine the status of these activities within our communities. The existing legal solutions and new proposals in these amendments are as if all companies engaged in public transport of passengers have the status of public enterprises. If it were the idea of a single proposer, a government or a ministry, then it must be carried out in a regular legal procedure, and in that case it is simple to install the provisions on inspection and other supervision. In addition, to remind myself that there is also a Republic Law on Public Enterprises, in which many things are defined, and could also be applied in this case. No doubt Mrs. Minister has now said so, and it also says in the bill and in the explanation that the major real problem of road transport is the lack of adequate legal regulation for the transport of passengers and goods between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. He demanded an urgent solution. This is also proposed by this bill, by introducing a concept of inter-republic transport, in Article 1 paragraph 13. As a parliamentary group, of course, we only support this matter in these amendments and additions, although I must say that in our opinion there are certain constitutional problems regarding this topic. It is not a topic now of constitutional debate on this law; it may be an opportunity to say that in other examples of the laws that we have passed, and which we are likely to bring, we cannot question the constitutionality now, because we do not have a Constitutional Court. I read that it is a shame for the state and that in this part of Europe alone we do not have a Constitutional Court. Personally, I think that this is the most responsible thing to propose, which is the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Milutinovic and the current DOS authority, who cannot clearly agree personally on it. It's probably something else. All the other proposed measures given in the explanation are less important, and in our opinion it was better to wait for the new law to be passed, which would solve the whole problem on a new basis. If this level of change and the addition of the Law that we are discussing today is already proposed, we ask why, for example, it has not proposed the introduction of licences for carriers, for businesses as well as for entrepreneurs, and for vehicles. If the term license may have been controversial, there are others, such as: license, trust, approval, etc. It is normal that certain conditions must be met in order to obtain a licence. In the current law on public transport, the conditions to be reviewed, specified and deleted have been laid down, since in practice they have proved to be purely formalistic, especially with regard to the provision of parking space, regular maintenance and control of technical correctness of the vehicle. There are rare cases of vehicles being parked in the place where the contract was set, and even fewer cases of regular maintenance and control of technical correctness of the vehicle are done in an agreed manner. Therefore, I think that in order to obtain these licences, beliefs, etc., we should prescribe quite different conditions, which will reflect the real possibility and the capacity to carry out this work. What is it that should be further arguments? First, a good business reputation, and here I mean the reputations that companies must also have, and the director of businesses, and entrepreneurs and authorized persons responsible for traffic. Secondly, the appropriate financial capacity - the carrier should have capital and reserves, for example from 10,000 marks in dinar equivalent for the first vehicle and 5,000 for each of the following, that the financial capacity implies regularity in paying taxes, contributions etc. Thirdly, that the director, the entrepreneur and the authorised person responsible for the transport must have the appropriate technical equipment, that they must be owned or leased in the long term by a certain number of vehicles, that the driving staff meet the conditions for professional training, that they have the relevant parking space, etc. The process of obtaining licences and obtaining documents on the fulfilment of these conditions could have been established, defined and elaborated under these amendments and additions, and if nothing else, then, in my opinion, it could be one message to edit the non-human's possible law. As I was informed in the direct contacts I had with Mr. Doulet, assistant minister of traffic, that thing was announced, so you'll probably, Madam Minister, in the conclusion that you mention it. Let this be a contribution to our parliamentary group - what else should we put in there. The existing Transport Act in road transport has centralised decision-making and supervision at the republican level with its solutions. This law on changes and additions, which is evident from the reasons, has made a shift in this sense of decentralisation and that is, when it comes to supervision, which in one segment covered local traffic, and entrusted to local self-government, which is a good direction. But I'll also set an example of a taxi transport that points to the need for further and even greater decentralisation. Why? The conditions for carrying out taxis were prescribed by law, and the municipality and cities could only regulate it closer. However, practice has shown that it is necessary to allow municipalities and cities, especially large cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac etc., to prescribe other conditions in line with their needs, which is not possible now. One of the biggest problems in line traffic is passengers, and everyone knows it, and the promoters, both users and businesses, is the privileged position of bus stations. The existing solutions in the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, and these amendments and additions are not proposed anything new, nothing better and nothing more, allow bus stations to achieve a monopoly position, which is illegal and unconstitutional. This problem is particularly expressed in the case of bus stations in small and medium towns, whose owners are domestic carriers, who want to prevent competition at high prices of their services, and avoiding the use of bus stations is impossible because the inspection rightly requires that they be used. This problem required detailed consideration and based on finding an optimal solution, which would be translated into a proposal for these amendments and additions to the Law. In order to confirm the above-mentioned claims on the repressivity of certain provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, I will illustrate this with three examples. First, by provision of Article 44(3) of the Road Transport Act, which is now Article 19. Proposal on amendments and additions to the Law (i.e. Article 44a(5) now) something and extends, is given absolute authority to the road traffic inspector, who has the possibility to shut down a vehicle from traffic for 48 hours for every most innocent offence, and in a repeated case, again for any offence, and for five days. Such legal solutions are not in any regulation that regulates another type of traffic or any other business activity. If this provision of the law were to be applied as it is written, that is, how it is sometimes implemented, almost all vehicles carried out by public transport would be excluded in a short time, and now according to the proposal and transport for their own needs. This does not occur because inspectors are acting selectively, so for the same committed violation of someone excluded and someone not, which is an additional argument on the justification of such provisions that are not implemented in law. If, for example, an unannounced day-to-day vehicle control on any road, it would prove that 90% of buses and trucks can be excluded from traffic, and very often, mainly due to irrelevant deviations from the law, such as: letters written by the firm do not have a prescribed height; or - due to some other minor lack in the travel order. Such provisions should apply only in those cases where a person carries out a transport and has no right to do so, if a person carries out a transport and is not registered for the performance of that activity, does not meet the conditions for its performance, or does not have a licence or carries out a direct transport of passengers and does not have a registered timetable for that line. This provision enables, for the sake of illustration, and one such case: a bus with 50 passengers, which is on the route from Belgrade-Bar, to stop by for rest and refreshment of passengers to Zlatibor and stay, for example, five minutes longer than scheduled by order of driving; a road traffic inspector comes in and shuts it down for 48 hours, and perhaps for five days, as far as possible. It's absurd, of course, no dilemma. Secondly, nothing less is repressive or the provisions of Article 20. Transport laws in road traffic, and now a supplemented Article 9. A proposal to amend and supplement the same law, allowing the order to be deleted from the register if the transport is not carried out for three, five or ten days. And so far, access to these provisions of the law has been selective. For some carriers, driving order was deleted due to non-maintainment or non-starting of transport in July 2000, when, we all know, there was no fuel and no driving conditions. Losing order of driving, ladies and gentlemen, is a great punishment for the carrier and often irreparable damage, but it is even bigger for citizens and users, because if there is no excuse for failing to carry out transport, the carrier cannot carry out the other 362 days of the year, and no one else can replace it. In addition, such measures do not exist in other areas of traffic, because if there were in Serbia today, the railway would not work at all, nor would JAT fly on all lines, or if the law were applied to urban or suburban transport in Belgrade, and for it, so far, all the driving lines would be deleted and Belgrade would have no traffic. Third, the special story of the entire bill is provisions (in the context of articles 20 to 26). The law) which has been proposed, i.e. increased fines for commercial offences and infringements established by the existing law, but also for those established by amendments and additions to this law. The fact that these increases in relation to the existing penalties are even reduced to 50 times, or they come from 500 to 5000%, which is undosed, inappropriate, unfounded, unfounded and regardless of the justification, which, of course, the promoter has the right to give, cannot be maintained at all. With all this in mind, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group cannot support such a bill. We believe that a new law should be made which would respect all relevant facts and be truly and expert, both reform and European. In the event that the law remains in the process, we certainly think it will be, we, as a parliamentary group of SPS, have submitted 17 amendments to 35 of them, which we have tried to improve and these legal solutions, if it goes to their adoption and we will discuss it when we have a debate in particular. The final position of our parliamentary group depends on the relation of the ambassador's majority according to our amendments. Thank you, and the president would like to make it clear that I've spent 16.30 minutes and I've got 3.30 minutes left for the second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14165	The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14166	Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party will not vote for this law, because the law provides for great penalties, and we did not create conditions for carriers to pay those penalties. Let's remind ourselves that the buses are in a very bad state, that the average age is over 12 years, that certain buses look like from the show "Who's singing there", only the furnace should be inserted inside, that passenger safety is at risk because the buses are technically broken, and they're wrong because of their age. In this law, it is not intended to in some way help transporters to get to some new vehicles, and we have to realize that a large number of buses have come to Yugoslavia, but they have all stayed in Belgrade. No bus went to Nis, Jagodin, Triestenik or Pirot. I think since the next tour, if we can call her that, or help that comes to Yugoslavia, I'd ask the minister to make sure that some bus goes inland as well. Also, this law is not meant to help peasants. I always have to talk about it because I live in the country and I know how it is in the country. And how to help the peasants -- to build up the country roads by the fields, because they're threatening traffic when they get their tractors on the main road, they take out the mud, then there's a car accident, which we can read every day in the daily press. So we have to take care of the peasants too, because they have a duty to separate one part of the Department of Traffic once they register their vehicles. It is not strictly stated in this law, and every day I have contact with individual taxi drivers, who say there are a large number of savages in Belgrade, they call them. They buy a 100-mark board, a 200-mark taximeter and take a job for those who legally pay taxes. There it was to be isolated that such taxi drivers, i.e. transporters, etc. Wildlings, if caught doing favors, pay big fines. Then, in this law, it is not envisaged (and I think the minister will, I have a promise at the last session of the Committee) that the Ministry of Traffic assists, across municipalities, for those travellers in the city's municipal traffic. In particular, for students whose homes are 10-15km away, the Ministry sent a memo to all municipalities to free those children from paying bus tickets, as we know their parents' salaries are very low. It's missing in this law. Also, this law lacks road and freight traffic. We know that the average age of a truck is over 15 years, that it's some carriers who have been doing this job for 15 years, they support their families, and they're not in a position to buy a new vehicle. The Ministry should intervene, if anything, to help them secure a new vehicle so they can continue to live off that activity. The Serbian Unity Party will not vote for this law. We hope that the new law will come to the Assembly by the end of the year and that all these things I have stated and proposed will be foreseen in this new law. There's one more thing I'd like to remind you - 64 countries came to Yugoslavia today. The World Boxing Championship has been held, for the first time since the World Cup has existed, so I invite you all to be our guests. This championship will be opened by Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and today, President Vojislav Kostunica will receive a delegation from the Federation president, who have been our guests since yesterday in Yugoslavia. The championship takes place until 25. So it's opening today. Final fights are Saturday and Sunday of 1900 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14167	The People's Messenger Srdjan Petrovic has the word, and then Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14168	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow Members of Parliament, respected Madam Ministers, is certain that this topic is interesting and that a large number of problems stand in this matter of road traffic, and that is what my predecessors have pointed to. It is certain that all these things should be settled in one whole system law related to this area. However, this legislative proposal, which is before us today, does not have that ambition. He solves one gap in the law that has arisen from a discrepancy between federal and republican regulations, and surely it is necessary. Maybe he's a little late. It was supposed to be brought in this summer, certainly, when this transport was more intense. But in this case, it's never too late. I think he's needed. He's the carrier's demands. In any case, it should be supported until a new system law is passed, in which matter will be regulated until the end. That's what my fellow MPs from my MP's club will talk about. I'm saying a request from the carrier is a necessary matter. This republican inspection is being introduced, which will be able to control the void created in inter-republic transport. So, for all these reasons, we think this amendment of law is necessary. The DSS parliamentary group will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14169	The People's Messenger Stanko Kovacevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14170	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens, the PDS parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal, not only because it is proposed by the Ministry of Democratic Government of Serbia, whose actors we are, but because of how our fellow MPs in the debate yesterday or the day before yesterday said, what this legislative proposal is typical of so-called. a technical legislative proposal. There should not be much reason for excessive debate and out-of-wiseness, as it is not about reform law, as some fellow MPs tend to characterise some legal proposals. Therefore, it is a technical law that must comply with the rights and obligations of the competent Republic Ministry and the republican control bodies with the federal Public Transport Act in road transport and at the same time put in place the Republic of Serbia's republican authorities with the competent authorities of the Republic of Montenegro, because the authorities of the Republic of Montenegro have practically assumed much more rights and competences than they would have under federal law. Also, this law would have to have a very positive impact on public traffic security, because we are witnessing that there has been a sudden increase in very serious car accidents, with severe consequences, and we hope that there will be a positive impact. There have been objections here that this law gives enormously high criminal provisions. In another act of law, when we also discussed objections to enormously high criminal provisions, I said that the lack of self-awareness about the need for compliance with legal and technical regulations had to be compensated at the height of the repression. Our man is such, our leaders are such, our business organizations are such that they are always ready to avoid their obligations under technical and legal norms, and hope that they will not bear any repercussion for it. For these reasons, there are certain justifications for such high criminal provisions. Finally, again, I would like to stress that the PDS parliamentary group, which is working within the DOS, will in principle declare the proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14171	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no technical law in front of us. It's not true that the law was necessary for the summer season. If needed, he would not have arrived at the Parliament on July 24th, at the end of the summer, but would have arrived somewhere in March, February, counting on the assembly procedure, to arrive for a summer in which the problem this law is trying to remove. What is the purpose of the adoption of this area - I think the Serbian government has responded to the behaviour of its friends from the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and has started "instructioning" although only two carriers in Montenegro operate traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It has occurred to someone that we need to split up even more, that it is not enough that we are fighting over the media and that it is not enough that both of them bring the same European Commissions, which they say - break off and the others say - we are not going to allow secession, but also to go to legislation, to put citizens in a situation where those from Montenegro are already some other country, as we are from Serbia in Montenegro. And that's clear from Article 1. The bill, which I have submitted to the amendment, which adds point 13 to Article 2 of the current law and defines inter-republic transport, says: "It is a transport that crosses the border between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro". This is the first legal introduction of the deadline between the two republics of the SRJ. Those who write the bill should know very well what the border is and what the border means, and I do not find it strange that the legislator wrote it, because the DOS government has introduced the border in Brodarevo for a month and a half after the constitution, between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, a rigorous, classical, border security, customs authorities, police, control of passenger and goods transport. Do not reconsider decisions, no one should call a place where they cross from Serbia into Montenegro by border. It can call the administrative border, it can define that place in some other way, because the truth is that the republican legislation is increasingly separated by the two republics, but that we are the first to go, and this law (I will try and prove it) is moving, shows that Serbia should either be without Montenegro or Montenegro, in that relationship with Hungary (Glass from Hall: I Sarak. I wish he was with Iraq, but it could just throw away someone who's totally stupid. I wish you hadn't anticipated a ban on cabotage by Article 11 - means when the bus leaves Budapest to Belgrade, it is forbidden from Saturday to Belgrade to receive passengers; when the bus leaves Herceg Novi to Belgrade, it is forbidden from Brodarev to receive passengers on the territory of the Republic of Serbia; when the bus leaves from Piroth, it is allowed, both in the White Palanca and in Nis, and in Jagodina (where there is a bus station, because you predicted that it could only be on stations), it is allowed to receive passengers travelling in relations within the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What difference does it make, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that this bus from Piroth does not interfere with the carrier from Nis, does not interfere with the carrier from Paracino, does not interfere with the carrier from Ćupri, from Jagodina, and is being disturbed by the bus "Tare" from Cetinje? Aren't we one country? If it wasn't for that limit, you wouldn't be asking yourself this question at all, it would be exactly the same for you if the bus left from Piroth, or if it had left Cetinje, and we'd probably get from the Vojvoda's draft law, in which the cabotage will be banned on the territory of Vojvodina for buses starting from Serbia to Subotica, and perhaps you'll say before they do - the bus going from Subotica to Nis can't cabotage from Belgrade to Nis. That's how it develops and grows, and it can't be stopped, it can't be stopped. This bill is a fundamental purpose, everything else is a matter of technique, a matter of principle that we could discuss. But we don't want to discuss this principle with you. And who is he who can support the bill, in which we establish a border between Montenegro and Serbia, we first, to show them what to do on the referendum. Article 18 states that a Republic road traffic inspector has the right and the duty to carry out inspection of vehicles carried out in road transport. I don't understand that. The second part of the sentence I understand -- it controls the documentation, but how does a republican traffic inspector look at the vehicle? Do we have a MUP? If someone has to perform a vehicle inspection, only the M.O.P. can send them for an emergency technical examination. What the inspector's looking at - is it a clean vehicle, was someone in the vehicle sick, was he drinking alcohol in the vehicle, did they smoke tobacco? What does this vehicle check-up apply to? You know who's doing the vehicle checkup. Point 6. - determines the identity of passengers and faces - so it can't, people (we're talking about the bill, and what's going to happen with the amendments, we'll see), the municipal inspector to get on the bus and say, take out your ID cards, get on your nose. It's gotta be the M.O.P. Article 44a, paragraph 5, says: - The municipal inspector has the right to exclude a vehicle carrying out public transport and transport for its own purposes against the provisions of the law. Please, it's a terrible decision, it's a rigorous decision, to rule out a traffic carrier, so before you tell article 44v that he has to and keep the vehicle out of traffic, so now he has to, say, send from Subotica to Paracino at least three people who are going to keep the vehicle day and night, because he's bound by law. But you are nowhere here, in the provision of this member of the law, not telling which provision of the law, when the carrier breaks, can be a vehicle excluded from traffic, but only if it acts contrary to the provisions of the law. The provisions of the law stipulate that it should arrive at the bus station at a certain time, start from it, and you know how many blocks there have been when local transporters just put two buses on their way out of the station, and whoever arrived on the side can't get out. Five minutes passed, a municipal inspector comes in, waiting for it (as the National Bank inspectors waited to close Astra Banka, and you just do so) and immediately shuts down the bus from traffic. If that man is going to fail, to go bankrupt, to liquidate, you're not interested in it any further. From Article 21 below, a rigorous increase in money is envisaged by not seeing the penalty for breach of Article 6, where point 4 is added after point 3, which reads: "Međurepublic transport - between settlements on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro by using bus stations without the possibility of using bus stops". Since this is a restraining order, where is the criminal provision for this point 4, how will the carrier who stands at the bus stop be punished? On the other hand, why not stop at the bus stop, because it is safe, because if it is not safe, there would be no position, it must be outside the August tape, it must be marked specifically, that the bus is safely turned off and safely turned on. Why can't it be a ride? Because, let's say, on the territory of the city of Belgrade, you have many views and you yourself know that many buses, depending on which direction they come from, at least two places in Belgrade, at the points of view of passengers who are much closer to getting out, go, say, to VMA, and go out on Autocommand, or already as it is. In Belgrade, it's hard to get the job done if you didn't get there in time. Why should everyone go to the bus station? From the bus stop, you don't have any departures for all parts of the city. Someone's going to the City Health Services, someone's going to Karaburm, someone who knows where, no transport for all those parts, even if it's in the bag, and it is, since it's around 6:00 in the morning, he can't do the job. The bus passes by the hospital, has a stand, why don't you stop if it's a 70-year-old man, a difficult sick guy, why punish someone who stops at a bus stop? Who's he bothering? And now, here I am finishing, Article 29: "The Chamber of Commerce of Serbia will determine the general conditions of transportation for inter-republic transport within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. "What is the law if not the general terms of transport? Is that the chamber writing new laws now? The law defines the general conditions of transport, and the chamber can then elaborate and do so optionally. What gives us the right to give public authority to the chamber to practically write a new law. Whatever the chamber does, it's given in authority to this member to write one general act. Please, general transport acts can be passed by law, and by the law we lack in passenger traffic. That's why we'll be against the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14173	Any of the other presidents answer for a word? MP Cedomir Jovanovic, the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14174	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I feel it is necessary to speed up our work and therefore I will try to explain in the shortest lines the support we give this legislative initiative for which it was clearly a much more concrete single decision when it was proposed; but it is not just a conclusion that my predecessor served, stating that in fact this law entered the assembly procedure in July. I am familiar with the fact that it is important for me to declare it to you -- the law is through communication with the federal ministry, also resolute, so for traffic, prepared in early March of the month, and then in April, but because of the problems present in the functioning of the federal administration, the law formally appeared before the Republic government in July. Then, as a congregation, we were unable to respond to that legal initiative, as we can now do. I think it's clear that we all agree on the need to regulate that segment of this law that has so far been unregulated, and above all I mean this interrepublic relationship and the fact that in 1995, by abolishing the existing law, a legal vacuum was actually created. That's clear, and I don't think that's what any of us are arguing about. What are the problems, which are highlighted here in the presentation of previous representatives of parliamentary groups, are the heights of punishment and some politicisations that cannot in itself question this technical law and, of course, doubt its reform character. We said it was a law that came first from the necessity of our needs to regulate the law one segment of our economic life and activity. Therefore, this law does not really have a reform character that it must have. That's why this is, in fact, the law on amendments and additions to the law. What will certainly be on Parliament's agenda in the time ahead is a law that will have accompanying support, above all the concession laws. Without concession laws, we cannot pass a fundamental road traffic reform law, and the concession law must be passed through co-operation with a federal assembly that suffers a lot again because of the state's dysfunction. So these are all the difficulties that we need to appreciate, if we want to solve the problems that are daily. These problems will be resolved in the first phase if we increase the discipline of road traffic users treated by this law. I listened carefully to Mr Nikolic, and I must conclude that there is a big difference between his efforts and criticism of this law and what the Serbian Radical Party, I think the Socialist Party of Serbia, did when they proposed their legal versions to regulate this area of road traffic. I have before me the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, which the Resolute Ministry did in 1999, and that was done by the Serbian Radical Party Minister. I support the idea of rigorous penalties for those who do not comply with traffic regulations, because I think the price that follows unwarranted liberalisation and non-sanctioning of traffic offences is too high. We are witnessing a truly radical disregard for traffic regulations and almost daily accidents that are, above all, the result of a breach of existing legislation. In this legislative proposal that we have done, we have simultaneously tried to reconcile two extremes: the fact that we do not live in an economically orderly society that can allow the carrier to fully exercise all the rights that follow its status and, among other things, to meet some of our demands. That is why we on the one hand have increased the lower limit of sanctions for non-compliance with the rules, and on the other hand we have brought down the above. Comparing the 1995 law and this law, you'll see that by about 40%, the average is lower. They are lower because we do not think that the state is financing and filling the budget through such a system of charging and sanctioning violations, but at the same time we believe that it is necessary to maintain this repressive measure and that this difference is possible and realistic through those 40%, which we have done as a concession to those who will be sanctioned, but through our insistence on the absolute respect of this law. So the bottom line is up, and the top is down. As for the border problem between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, it is a republican border. When we talk about road traffic, then it would be good to forget the political contexts that are burdening us in our daily functioning of parliament. I also have before me a Law on Transport in Road Traffic, which is said in Article 7 that inter-republic transport is actually a transport that crosses the borders between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. It is the 1999 draft law of the resolution ministry that failed, both the opposition and other parliamentary groups. I have no doubt that you were also at the time seeking to preserve the common state, as we are trying to do today. I think it is necessary in a legal sense to realize that there is a Republic border, a border in application of the regulations and of the other republics, and therefore we must find a quality answer to such a thing. As for the fines mentioned, doubts as to the justification of their amount, I must say that the maximum penalty is 80,000 dinars, and that in the draft of the law, it is in the 1995 law, we have much greater penalties, if we use as a rapper in that system the value of the German mark. In this draft of 1999, you really have a fine of 60,000 to 300,000 dinars, and then in Articles 101 to 40,000 dinars, and in Articles 102 to 100,000 dinars. So each government tried to protect public traffic participants with such a type of repression, or sanctioning non-compliance with regulations that itself have too serious consequences. I think we can discuss the amendments that will be corrected and the illogicalities that Mr Nikolic has pointed to and concerning, above all, the rights of road traffic control inspection. This was clearly said by the resolution ministry on the committee responsible. So we are ready to correct this law, in the direction in which some logical initiatives will be respected. In the sense that you expect us to give in to political pressures on something that we think is necessary and necessary, that will not be the case. I call you to correct co-operation and point out that you yourself have brought as a government, in that segment in which you have criticised this law, a significantly more rigorous criminal provision. We don't have to, we're filling the budget from other means, but I'm warning you that none of the other parliamentary groups suffers from it, that it sanctions first and foremost those who question someone's lives by jeopardising public security in traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14175	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? According to the Rules of Procedure? National MP Branislav Ivkovic, replica. The basis for the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14176	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon and respect, since I'm reporting for the first time today. The president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, pointed to the Road Traffic Bill. The draft law did not go beyond the government of the Republic of Serbia and thus did not even receive support from the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is certain that the different views of ministers and members of the government, at that time more parties, influenced the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia did not pass, but when I came to the floor to say that somehow there was no explanation that the law could not have come into the procedure earlier, if we know that we had an extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament, where apparently the DOS majority wanted to discuss the Rules of Procedure and Immunities of MPs rather than this law, which we are currently discussing. The mood in that direction obviously exists today. Secondly, the Law on concessions exists at the level of the Republic of Serbia and even those trying to find hair in the egg say only cosmetic changes can be made, as the Law on concessions is the right thing to do, and the Law on concessions is in line with the Law on Foreign Investments at the level of the federal state. As far as the law itself is concerned, it can also be said that we were not able to hear anything affirmably, even from representatives of the parliamentary groups who defend that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14177	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not correct for some government work material to be presented here as a political party's position. Anything that has arrived in the Assembly as a bill can be quoted and you are right. Draft laws, and I see that this law has largely adhered to, don't quote. At the time, I wasn't a member of the Republic Government, and I don't know why that law didn't go through, but this border clause would certainly not have passed the party filter, at least ours, which I'm convinced of. But Mr Jovanovic said the fines were rigorous and mentioned that this bill is the highest penalty of 80,000 dinars. Not true, Mr. Jovanovic, 400,000 dinars is the highest penalty under this bill. If it were 80,000 - I wouldn't really object to the level of punishment, and if whoever wrote the law didn't know where it was - Article 21 of the first sentence. Speaking of these concessions, I'd like you to pass the concession law as soon as possible. For example, I am very interested in the way in which the business of scratching and asphalting the Smederev highway towards Belgrade has been given to a firm, when I know that the Road Directorate's advice, which has to make a decision to which the works are being made, has not made such a decision at all, and when I know that decision was illegal. I think it's a job that's brought millions to a lot of people, and it would be much better if we had the right information about this job than we have here a technical law in the weather comes before the Assembly. Indeed, these transports stopped by the end of the summer season and a more controversial journey between the Republic of Montenegro and Serbia, so much so that Serbia can handle it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14179	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, second appearance, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14180	I have to use my business rights since we've changed Rules of Procedure. It is true that I was wrong, 400,000 dinars is the maximum penalty, with it not referring to businesses and legal persons involved in traffic, but to an individual who is completely breaking the law and, as his colleague just said, is completely illegal in public transport. I've made a mistake, but I think you'll understand, it wasn't in the intention of a cartooning fact, but I just didn't consider that member of the law the way I analyzed everyone else. There is a criminal provision of 400,000 dinars for a legal person, i.e. for an individual who violates all laws, means not only the Law on road traffic, but all others, and appears in public transport beyond the rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14181	Are any of the other representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? If not, we move to a debate in order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the principle debate. The People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people is Zivko Selaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14182	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, counterpart Petrovic has already announced the position of Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary club on this bill and I will not repeat it. I want to take advantage of the presence of Ms. Minister and the people of the Ministry of Justice to point out something that, in our opinion, should be regulated by law, something that is legal void in the existing law, which imposes life as a need to regulate this kind of legislation. Here's the thing: in the mountain-mounted part of Serbia, there is a need to sharpen the van-carriage. The existing law does not allow such a variant of transport. We have a lot of mountain villages with 50 to 100 households or residents, where one part of these people traffic daily or communicates with the community center. Local transporters have no interest in sending buses there because of a small number of these passengers. That's why these people get all mauled up there, often walk for miles. The solution was to sharpen the variant of the van-carrying, so that people who have an interest in vans or mini-buses go to these villages, settlements, pick up 10 people who travel daily to the city and simply do them a favor and open up the possibility of action. When we go to those mountain villages, people always point to such a need. I know that certain congregations are municipalities, and even in Prepolje where I live, citizens' initiatives are submitted in this regard, but since the law does not give such an opportunity it is impossible to realise at this point. Then people who do it wildly show up, and they fight with the police, and that's not good. I think you can open up a legal variant, so suburban or line transport, that'll be better known by experts and lawyers. So to open up the possibility that someone who owns or wants to buy a van or a mini-bus registers it as an activity, registers a line; they will have certain departures, returns, and then it is a benefit to people who live there, and also to people who would regulate their performance in this way. This practice has existed for many years in Montenegro and, in my knowledge, proved to be very good in the mountainous and mountainous part of Montenegro. For this reason, I appeal to the legislator that when preparing a new version of the law, and I have heard that it is working in the ministry, consider and sharpen this mode of transport, for the simple reason that life requires and life practice imposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14183	The word is by MP Zivko Selakovic, followed by MP Dusan Golubovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14184	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and now I can't say hello to Mrs. Secretary, she's gone, she probably hears me upstairs in the cabin. In the opening statement of the Minister, Madam Minister, I actually just confirmed what I wanted to say -- and she said herself that the road traffic law came somehow into the collapsing of republican and federal regulations. In this regard, I will present my opinion or observation, suggestions and objections to this bill. The Law on Road Traffic is a very important legal document, if we have in mind the state of traffic in all major cities with us, and especially the situation on our roads and everyday traffic accidents, accidents and so forth. So I think that something needs to be done in this region to improve traffic in general, but in the way in which this problem is solved and in order of priority, I think that in this case, it's the reverse order of traffic, the traffic law at all. Namely, the law on traffic safety should first be passed (because there are daily deaths on our roads and roads, all of which are caused by poor applicable regulations), and only then this road traffic law, which we are discussing today, is the one that we are discussing. The possible creation of this law, which I have mentioned, must certainly not bypass the involvement of experts in this area, and it is necessary to include people from the city and republican Transport Secretariat, members of the traffic police (and from traffic security portfolios), as well as all representatives of associations dealing with the transport activity of the vehicle person, as well as the car houses authorised for technical examination, and other professional people in this area. As regards the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, the SSJsmara MP group said that this bill, as has been passed and adopted so far, has been passed and adopted, such as a package of tax laws, a law on court fees, etc. a classic and tried way to fill up the national register as quickly as possible, now and by financially established enterprises, which is undoubtedly said by such a drastic increase in penalties, i.e. the criminal provisions of these proposals. In fact, I want to underline that, too, there is no doubt that certain penalties are negligible and that very low ones encourage a variety of speculation and traffic chaos. There is no doubt that they should be readjusted, in line with common sense above all, and not that for certain criminals they have to separate the entire month’s salary, for some and a few months’ wages, as foreseen by the Proposed Law on Road Traffic. The same is true of companies -- such high sentences will be brought into such a position that they will have to commit other financial violations to pay the penalties provided for by this law. So, go from one offense to another offense. Finally, with all that I've made, the need is imposed, as I have already said, that this proposal is withdrawn from the procedure and access to the making of a complete traffic law, that is, the traffic safety law, as well as the road traffic law that we're talking about today. This proposal for the proposed text of the Assembly Group cannot be supported by excessive penalties, which seems to be the only and main substance in this proposal to supplement the Law on Road Transport. As usual, this time our proposal to withdraw this bill will probably not be accepted because the voting machine is in the majority. Therefore, the parliamentary group of the Soviet Union for the debate in particular also submitted several amendments regarding the correction towards a reduction in the level of penalties. That's what I was talking about. Unfortunately, none of this will likely be accepted. I honestly wish I'd made a mistake in advance of that prognosis. Since I have a little more time, I would like to point out that - when I arrived at this session, I held consultations with professional people in this area. First, they said they were unhappy that, let's say, such an important bill didn't even come to certain traffic institutions, that they would look at it. And not to say they weren't engaged in making this bill. I also want to underline, let's say, this bill is more or less based, as I said, on punishment. I think it's more important to do a traffic safety law to regulate the regularity of buses, connections, etc. without saying everything that follows the malfunction of the vehicle entering our traffic. Let's say that the bus on the Belgrade-Leskovac line doesn't have a board to go over Nis and the Great Plane or Jagodina. That's what 50 and more thousands of dinars are scheduled for. I find this irrelevant compared to what I was saying about traffic security. I would especially like to point out (and I also had a conversation with representatives of car and taxi carriers who have been moaning for years and asking for public transport law to be regulated at the level of the Republic) - when the Ministry of Transport will already understand that taxi drivers and all other freight and passenger transport operators will already be recognised as a basic means of operation. I once said it - an anomaly and it's a shame that the meter was recognized as a means of working, and the vehicle wasn't. By the way, the ambassador group of the Soviet Union is very constructively approaching every law, and we have shown that we are not against it just to be against it when we also supported the Agency Act. So, we want to participate in Parliament's work, to contribute to the adoption of as good laws as possible, and this time also consider this to be an honest, well-intentioned thing that I, on behalf of the Soviet Parliament's parliamentary group, suggest that this draft law be withdrawn and that, in due course, access to the complete traffic law, counting the traffic security law and this law that we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14185	The word is by MP Dusan Golubovic, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here today we are talking about a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, which should only bridge one time period (I hope very short, we talked about it on the Transport Committee) until the adoption of a new transport law in road transport. Otherwise, as far as I know, the making of a new law is in the final stage and he will soon go to a public debate, to the government, and will finally come here to us in the assembly procedure. I must say, although it may not seem so to some, this law falls under extremely significant laws, and I will only illustrate it by one example. In fact, our country expects a dynamic development that hopefully will be as fast as possible. In this light, Serbia should be one of the key transit corridors between Europe and the Middle East. Here, first of all, I mean the countries of Europe and the Middle East. We may never be the leading tourist force, but a transit country can be and all of this needs to be exploited. For this reason, great money can be poured into the register of the Republic budget, and above all from many carriers that will cruise our roads. Normally, we also need good roads, and above all, I mean the highway, which these days is something to say, Budapest - Belgrade, but we also need good laws from this area. As for the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, I will only present some of the basics that may be crucial, because this is only about changes. I repeat that it is in preparation for a new law that I hope will be more modern and quality. So, the predecessors have already said we have certain monetary corrections. First of all, in the case of fines, I have to point out that nothing has changed in the last five years, if I'm not mistaken since 1995. New technical terms and expressions have also been introduced, and what is most important or significant: the rights, duties and powers of the Republic road traffic inspector have been specified. In doing so, I think of the Republic of Serbia, the jobs of city, or municipal inspection, which again refer to road transport, but also to the locale, have been clearly defined. What is really crucial for the adoption of this law is that inter-republic transport in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is carried out without the supervision of a republican inspection since 12 November 1995, meaning since the entry into force of the still applicable Transport Act in road transport. I repeat, that law is still in force, until we, hopefully, change it today. Meanwhile, Montenegro's second federal unit regulated it with its laws. Their republican inspectors have been in control of inter-republic transport in Montenegro for years. So, as the lawyers would say, there is a legal gap here, which is certainly going to harm the Republic of Serbia above all. This means that there is a gray economy and a steam spill, which should be poured into the republican budget. I'm going to say just one example, it's some kind of information that appears because the economy doesn't register everything through the Chamber of Commerce, that there's about two double the number of registered carriers circulating between the two federal units. People who are more involved in this work can also assume how much money is actually being poured out beyond the Serbian budget. This is the basic reason why this bill on amendments to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic has been in the assembly procedure today, because we have been correcting this gap since 1995. I note that, if I'm not mistaken from 1994, the previous law was regulated, so did C95. The year has happened, which means this is the basic reason: that the republican inspectors are controlling inter-republic road traffic. There's not much more to talk about. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will vote for this law, normally with a few amendments proposed by Mr. Srdjan Petrovic. But if I'm not mistaken, the government has accepted those amendments, so it won't be in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14187	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14188	Ladies and gentlemen of the people sent, Madam Minister, I'm glad to see that after 10 months, since you were elected minister, I finally see you in this assembly hall when the assembly is in session. You can justify yourself, probably that you've been busy building bridges at the New Sad so far. Well, there's a little money stuck - you've made a new law and you've set new penalties. So, by your law, let's say, a worker comes to work at his home office, changes, puts on a work suit, goes to his field office, comes across your inspector, stops the vehicle, picks up a list, finds that half of the workers have no ID, and charges the company 120,000 dinars for it. That's what it says in your law. You can turn your head all you want. As for the bridges, you ask for money from those who have destroyed these bridges, and do not take away from the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14189	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14190	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, and the reasons for its submission are to list certain legal gaps and discrepancies of the federal and regulations of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as the question of legal regulation in the case of inspection powers. This certainly indicates that the Law needs to be upgraded and that a large number of carriers, especially wild ones, appear cabotage and disorder of inter-republic transport, affecting traffic safety. The adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, as explained in the explanation, would curb the grey economy in the use of the traffic market in the Republic of Serbia and the republican inspection should fill the republican budget. The Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications announced a new law, of course I expected this new law, which would fit today as well as future times, and went to Europe. Once again, however, we get only changes and supplements from the government of experts that are very repressive, and the largest number of changes and additions relate to the introduction of enormous penalties for committed violations and giving greater authority to the Republic's inspection. This law offers extremely repressive measures. There's no such thing in our environment. I think this is going to have a very bad impact on privatisation, and it's strange that now, after the adoption of the Privatisation Act, instead of creating more favourable conditions in this area, we're making it impossible for the state authorities to do better and better control. The fact is that this activity should also be regulated within the social community, certain relations within the framework of action, as well as a regulation for transport between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, which I certainly support, and everything else should be resolved under a new law that would solve this issue on all grounds. The conditions laid down in the current Public Transport Act should be reviewed and specified in particular when it comes to parking space, regular maintenance and control of the technical regularity of the vehicle, but certain conditions should also be laid down to reflect the actual possibility and competence to carry out this activity. Legal and physical persons who want to deal with this activity must meet certain conditions. Whether it's a business angle, whether it's a financial ability, whether it's professional training, having a certain number of vehicles, owning a parking space or bus stations -- all of this needs to be settled by law, and probably by some sublaws. The proposed law further centralises decision-making and supervision at the republican level with its solutions, which is certainly not good. Decentralisation has been promised, and in these changes and additions to local self-governments only local transport is entrusted, although they prescribe conditions for carrying out taxis must have even greater authority in this area. The privileged position of bus stations in this proposal, as well as under the current Transport Act in road transport, allows the owners a monopoly position, which is against the constitution. This is expressed in cities where cell services are charged, often extremely high, and they are not. Bus stations, despite the charges of use, are unremarkable, dirty, and the carriers avoid them. This extremely repressive bill in road transport is very difficult to fix with amendments, as its adoption is primarily regulated in Articles 18 and 19, where the rights, responsibilities and powers of the republican road traffic inspector are increasing. Also, the provisions in Articles 21 to 26 have an enormous increase in the amount of fines for commercial offences and violations, so that they increase by ten or more times, which is really excessive, and who will pay for it? In Article 27, I do not think an objective deadline has been given to carry out inter-republic transportation of passengers under the existing driving schedules that have been registered and certified in the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. The deadline needs to be changed, because the proposal is very close. Article 2 of this Act should be deleted because it is absurd to prohibit, in particular, the use of vehicles which are excluded from traffic in the course of inspection. Well, I guess that's understood. Also, Article 6 provides for a ban on the use of bus stops to carry out inter-republic transport and to prevent cabotage. But what about those municipal places that don't have bus stations -- how to run a transport there? In this proposal for a law, there is a particularly interesting Article 18 which, in addition to all other things, allows the Republic Inspector to also determine the identity of passengers and persons, transport users, ID control, identification documents and other relevant documents. Well, is that some new kind of democracy? Because of everything that's been said so far, the Socialists can't support this law. If our amendments are accepted, the law will certainly be better quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14191	The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic, followed by MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14192	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, Madam Ministers, debated in the principle of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, we are once again in a position to realize that the Proposer - the Government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking to shape the applicable laws in accordance with Western European legislation. That can't be a problem. However, there is also a time for education in Western European legislation. For example, when a law on the use of the safety belt was introduced in France in 1978, this law only began to apply from 1 January 1979. So, after a year. During that time, the traffic police educated drivers and thus prepared them for repressive measures. The law must be set up by vertical means, so that it must have time for education, legal norm and repressive measures. For many reasons, it is obvious that in the adoption of a package of laws that are before us or will be the subject of our discussions, it does not take into account the reality, i.e. the real possibilities of legal and physical persons in our country. Just as it is obvious that Serbia's economic progress is not possible overnight, it is indisputable that even changes in the legislation must, to a greater extent, be gradual and appropriate to real opportunities, especially in the scope of criminal provisions and in the Law on whose amendments and additions we are discussing. That was especially the case in the amendments to the Serbian Unity Party that came from our parliamentary group. These amendments propose a reasonable reduction of the proposed dragon penalties. In doing so, our proposings have shown their full respect for the need to increase fines, in relation to the penalties currently in force by the Law, and in view of the state of traffic, as well as the non-compliance with the rules in this area. For the purposes of this case, we request that the proposed amount be presented in Article 21(1). The bill "out of 100,000 dinars" replaces the amount of "30,000 dinars" and instead of "400,000 dinars" to punish the "200,000 dinars". In both of these and other cases, we are responsible for amendments to the same formulation; generally and insufficiently justified. To recapitulate - the penalties in many cases are indeed drastic and will hit the inevitable perpetrators, or workers, regardless of the new letter of the law burdens the legal entities, or in them the responsible persons. In addition, what we have already said is provided for by the current Law on Liabilities, Article 171 of Article 2 of this Act, by applying more rarely in practice. If we keep in mind what is proposed by the future labour law, what we will discuss in a few days, it is certain that workers will fall on the shoulders of workers to bear and punish, inconsistent respect for the amended and updated transport law in road transport. This implies that money is equal to the current one-year income, including the year-long incomes of one worker, with a marked opportunity to lose their jobs. It is difficult to find something similar in the world, compared to the level of punishment and the reception of employees. All of us who are in the parliamentary benches have arrived at this high home of the people, that is, the majority votes of the voters. The majority cannot accept the solutions offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in terms of more criminal provisions, in a legal act that should be passed today. For this reason, I propose that, in this case, the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be withdrawn from the procedure for completion or at least that, honourable fellow Members, we now accept our amendments, as well as amendments from other MPs, which contribute to the adoption of more appropriate, more realistic changes and additions to the Law on Law in Road Traffic. In all of this, the Serbian Unity Party will not support this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14193	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14194	Ladies and gentlemen, again we have the same, similar law, at least when it comes to the way we've been prepared, as we've had some changes and additions to the existing laws, where 40-50 times the penalties have been increased. We've already had a similar story in previous laws, and the explanation is always the same - being when it is, now this is so, but some system law is being prepared that will radically change that problem in some area. So nothing really changes. But this law shows something that may differ from the previous depth of the crisis in which the federal state is located. This law was made, in fact, to somehow mimic, or to make an intruder towards the government of the Republic of Montenegro. Who has the damage, and who benefits from it - the damage, of course, has citizens who are not seen in this law; and all of these so far have gone to the harm of the citizens, and the reason is that it protects the economic interest of domestic carriers. The economic interest of domestic carriers can be protected in a different way, but not this way, to the harm of citizens who cannot now enter, say, a bus coming from Montenegro, just because it is from Montenegro. And what's the essence of the whole story is these criminal provisions that have been dramatically increased, but they won't be enforceable, because it's absolutely excluded and impossible in some things. Here's just one example -- if the bus stop doesn't meet the prescribed conditions, the fine is 30,000 to 120,000 dinars. If you start doing that, no company and legal person, you can close them all, they won't be able to pay for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14195	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14196	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is today on the agenda The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Transport, which we expected should affirm the importance of transport infrastructure, as a condition for the accelerated economic development of the country for which Europe is interested. We expected a new transport law from the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, a law that will fit the current and time that is coming to us and that will be in the right sense in terms of the law that will meet European standards. The proposed bill, however, is further moving away from the expected reforms. The basic impression and most of the amendments and additions to this law are to give greater authority to the inspection service and to impose greater penalties for offences committed. The amendment and addition of the law in these conditions can obstruct the Privatisation Act, because under such legal conditions, to carry out transport in road transport, there will be no entry of foreign capital into companies engaged in this activity, primarily by transporting passengers. This bill does not contribute to improving the transport of citizens using public transport, although we do know that public transport is mainly used by citizens of poor material conditions. With this proposal and the organisation of complete traffic, nothing promises its improvement. One of the ongoing problems in road transport is the lack of any regulation for transportation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, and it requires urgent resolution, and it is positive that this proposed law will address it. However, ladies and gentlemen, since I come from the area of Kosovo and Metohija, I need some suggestions and perhaps requests to refer to the Ministry of Transport - and this is not related to the law, since we know that today in the area of Kosovo and Metohija there are no laws of Serbia, that complete traffic has been suspended at the premises of Kosovo and Metohija - that the Ministry of Transport is doing everything possible to regulate those lines and that traffic that once worked, especially in the parts of central Kosovo, which today does not work for all of us known security. Because of those people who stayed in Kosovo and Metohija, due to obligations and connections with their mother, we need representatives of our ministry of traffic with UNMIK and KFOR representatives to find a common language to enable the free transport of passengers, as allowed by what was in the interest of UNMIK, for the transport of voting materials, because I had the opportunity to see, at the time I arrived at the Assembly, that the road was so safe when the ballots for those who voted in central Serbia came. Another thing I would ask, that both documents, i.e. documents, allow Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to use IDs, all of those documents used under the law of Serbia. We have to double the tables down there to have (here, I'll show you what the license plate we have to use to register the vehicle, because with this plate we can't drive outside the administrative borders), so we have to register the vehicle by the Serbian law, and by the laws it's implemented down there, UNMIK, so double registration. I hope, therefore, that the Ministry will take certain steps to comply with our laws as well. As for the discussion -- so much, but based on what I notice in the hall, the MPs could listen to what we are discussing, because I see there are a lot of cards in the hall, and the MPs aren't present, so please establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14197	Sticking to clean procedures, MP Sreten Mitrovica had to state by which member of the Rules of Procedure requires the determination of the quorum. National MP Sreten Mitrovic also has a whisperer in the ranks, but I would still like to hear a member of the Rules of Procedure and the position of the member on which he seeks the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14198	Article 118 says MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them, on their way out of the O.R. According to that article, since MPs leave cards in the O.R. and are not present, please establish a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14199	I would ask you to make a decision - do you want to remove the cards or to determine the quorum? If you want cards removed, then you quoted a member of the Rules of Procedure, and if you want the quorum to be determined, you did not quote a member of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly's service to remove the identification cards on every MP's unit where the MP doesn't sit. I would ask MP Sreten Mitrovica to quote a member of the Rules of Procedure after which he seeks the quorum. He doesn't want a MP, thank you. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to inform the Service to carry out its business obligation to remove the cards. The word is given by MP Miroljub Veljkovic (not present). The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word. (Employer Tomislav Nikolic asks for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. ) Since I have given my word to the People's MP Bozidar Vujic, when he has finished his presentation, MP Tomislav Nikolic will be given a word regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (National MP Zarko Obradovic asks for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Zarko Obradovic also asked for a word of injury to the Rules of Procedure, and he will get it when MP Bozidar Vujic finishes his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14200	Madam Chairman, you do not respect the Rules of Procedure that you have brought, and Article 82 -- and for your presidency there is an extra card, and you see yourself as being broken; however, it is good that you violate it, too, will be seen by the people. As many MPs from several DOS parties for this speaker said -- it's neither systemically nor reformative, this is, above all, technical law. And why isn't it systematic, why isn't it reformable, when it's obviously a whole area of traffic, which is burdensome with problems, needs through a series of system, reform laws legally and normably regulate and regulate? Probably just because DOS, which is allegedly full of experts, doesn't exist in this area of these experiments. He's, they say, technically. Technically, because they're being brought in, in fact, they're changing the fines for the violations they've committed. These penalties that this law now proposes and which you DOS will adopt are drastic, above all they are dragonous. Technically, as you say, it's because you give alleged inspections to the inspection services and all those that are neither right nor logically should they have. So much for DOS experts,... As well as on the claim, this is reform law and this is because it is the first of a series of laws that it allegedly wants to do DOS, redefines relations between Serbia and Montenegro. How Montenegro doesn't know until today when, nor knows how to formulate and implement its referendum, because you are supposed to be DOS experts, you have reported that through this law, through the border, you give them an initial chapel on how to implement their referendum, how to implement secession and separatism. That's why I, as a member of the Serbian Radical Party, will not vote for this expert law, the alleged DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14201	I would ask the messengers of the people not to earn neither in the way nor from the bench, but if they desire a word, and by the hurt of the Rules of Procedure, that they seek it. Since in the previous part of the session we had two applications for the violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Tomislav Nikolic and MP Zarko Obradovic, in order to have someone to turn to, given the insight into the electronic identification system, I ask the National Assembly to establish the quorum. I'm taking a break until 15.00 hours and I'm asking the MPs to be with their identification cards at 15.00 hours in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14202	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue with the work of the National Assembly. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, followed by MP Joca Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14203	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, in this proposal of the Law on Road Traffic, I see the government's intention to improve the situation in road traffic as much as possible, there are some positive things, you can see that good intention. However, in that intention to improve the situation and seduce order in road traffic, I think it has gone a little too far, especially in the part of giving too much authority to the republican traffic inspector. It was necessary to introduce that function, to determine people who would do these tasks as they should be done, but to give so much authority to a Republic traffic inspector, in that part of Article 18, in paragraphs 5 and 6, I think it's absurd, that it's absurd. That is why I have submitted an amendment to this bill, to delete the position of the 6th member. But I'll talk about it a little bit more when there's a debate in particular. I also have an objection to part of the law relating to sanctions, i.e. provisions from Articles 1 to 25, which I see as repressive measures and over-repressive measures. I get the impression that the drastic increase in criminal measures is in line with the government's determination to liberalise prices in all areas, because if the price of communals, electricity, basic life supplies is drastically increased -- everything that exists has been accumulated several times, and here in these segments we see a price increase of 10, 40 and 50 times. So it's not 50%, it's 50 times. For example, only Article 25's position confirms that the penalty increases by 50 times. In this increase in prices, i.e. penalties should have had little measure. I appreciate some suggestions, and the right to tell you that I am in favor of tightening the criminal measures in order to ensure traffic safety, but with such a drastic increase in criminality, I would disagree. Finally, I would like to ask Mrs. Minister how we will implement this law in Kosovo and Metohija, when UNMIK, or former UNMIK chief Kouchner, by adopting its regulations, has practically annulled all the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ in those areas. In Chuck's day, UNMIK administrators make decisions to ban the functioning of the municipality's assembly in Serb municipalities. Who will implement our laws in those parts of Serbia, how we will control vehicles coming from Kosovo and Metohija or going there, how these goods will be controlled, what function will be a republican traffic inspector, let's say, if we have in mind that UNMIK has made a decision to issue special registrations in Kosovo and Metohija - KS. In this situation, Serbs and non-Albanians have been brought into a terribly unfavourable situation. They must, in order to ensure a safe passage to the free movement, register a vehicle with these UNMIK registrations to come to central Serbia, in the rest of the SRJ. How are they gonna get through that registration? So they have to have a country of origin registration. That's where, as much as I have information, after New Year's Eve, they're gonna cancel that registration. Now we put these people in a situation first to pay double registration of the vehicle, whether it's passenger vehicles, whether it's freight or buses, anyway, but that's the situation. So, we have a very uncertain situation, so I'm interested in what the competent ministry is planning specifically on this, whether through the Coordination Centre or how to bring this situation together, because it is necessary in some way that this people who are now in a very difficult situation be protected as much as possible and that they are able to avoid double-paying those obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14204	The word is made by MP Joca Todorovic, and then by MP Aleksandar Vukic. Joca Todorovic is not here, Aleksandar Vukic is not there. The next is MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14205	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed Minister of Rushet, I expected the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications of the Republic of Serbia to propose to the Assembly a comprehensive law on transport in road transport, however, we have received a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Transport in Road Traffic. I also expected that this new comprehensive law would be suitable for the current and future time, for our current economy and for the needs of the entire population of the Republic of Serbia, that with this law we would come out of the current organisation in road transport, that it would be reform law and that we would also get closer to Europe with this law. However, according to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, in the organisation of transport, we are even further away from Europe, but I think we are further away from our nearest environment. The basic impression, when reading these amendments and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, is that it exudes repression and that it is to the greatest extent adapted to the work of inspection services and the increase of enormous penalties for offences committed. Such restrictive measures as are proposed, I don't think they exist in any kind of traffic, only in road transport. I think such a law, or such a proposal to amend and supplement the law, will be an obstruction of the Privatisation Act, because there will be no interested companies and companies from the international community that accept to deal with this activity under these conditions. So, instead of reforming this area, to bring it closer to Europe, to create the most favourable conditions for privatisation, we are passing legislation to make it easier for financial and inspectorial bodies to work. The truth is one thing, that we have here, and in the previous law that was passed in 1995, two unsolved things must be said, which is that there is one legal gap, in road transport between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, which, in my opinion, should have been resolved much earlier. Also, one newspaper that I think is good, but also needs to be expanded -- it's about the fact that part of the activity of inspection bodies, i.e. the control of inspection jobs, is being brought down to the level of municipalities, municipal administrations, city administrations, and this is about line and vanlinic transport of things, vanlinic transportation of passengers, transportation for their own needs and car transport. I expected licenses to be introduced in the new law on road transport, as previously discussed, both for the company and for the entrepreneur, but also for motor vehicles which would regulate the following: I think the license (or as already spoken here, contract, agreements) would regulate the good business reputation of the company, entrepreneurs and responsible persons for transport in road traffic; then, the appropriate financial capacity of the company or entrepreneurs; the appropriate professional preparation of business directors, entrepreneurs and responsible persons for transport; numbered in lease or in personal possession, as was also regulated in one part of the old law. Vehicle staff must meet certain requirements regarding professional training; the quality of the vehicle should be defined in terms of passenger transport comforts, not only in terms of technical regularity (when I say this, many of us are probably driving by bus, which is not like anything). I think it's supposed to be this new legal project, so the road traffic law, it's regulated. What I particularly want to point out - I also submitted two amendments when it comes to criminal measures - the criminal measures on some issues have increased by 5-50%, and I think that's a lot. I'll talk about it when I talk about the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14206	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by the MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why, but as the minister from the government comes to this assembly, he acts like a singer of new folk songs. They use the same terminology -- they have materials, they have projects, and they're going to get a sound rack, so they're going to issue a CD compact, maybe shoot a video. The commercial videos are already on tape. In this short time, I will draw your attention only to the provisions of former Article 13. Otherwise, Article 13 regulates the transport of goods in road traffic. If deleted from that member of the word - emissary, etc., it remains that goods in road traffic will be monitored by the cargo manifest. Didn't you have anyone in the entire Department of Traffic telling you that the paper was a document accompanying goods in rail traffic? Now you have two options -- either you're gonna set up tracks on the highways or you're gonna fix this stupidity in law. (I really don't understand it, I'm more familiar with new folk songs, and especially those from the Vlach area, because they sing from the bench, they don't sing at the pay phone. ) So, the cargo list will remain to track the goods. But this is now collapsing with the Trade Act. If the market inspector stops you and finds no emissary, etc. which stands in the law of trade, then will normally take away your goods, no matter what your traffic law says. Try to correct it in this technical, absolutely, what the children would say, a broken law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14208	The People's Messenger Rada Bajic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14209	Dear fellow Members of the People, as my SPS comrades said, we were expecting a truly comprehensive law today, when it comes to regulating the relations and conditions needed to organise road transport. However, it usually came out of the government's workshop only something entrenched when it comes to the old law. So, just cosmetic changes. When it comes to conditions, no new conditions have been defined that would functionally improve the law concerning the organisation of road traffic. So nothing new, just something written, which doesn't matter, and what's important from the terms simply or not acceptable or clear. When it comes to changing and supplementing this law, we can say that things are characterized by increased measures of repression, increased centralization, and also by giving authority... (President: I beg you for some peace in the O.R. I really don't think we should have kept working. Therefore, giving greater authority to inspection bodies. When I say that, I have to prove it with arguments. How else do you explain, when it comes to repression, that three new members are introduced when it comes to road traffic inspectors, who are given unlimited powers, so I would say, according to your free conviction, punishes the most banal offenses, offenses that do not apply to essential functional matters when it comes to a transport organisation, but -- if you extend parking in the place where you stopped yourself for five minutes; if you have the title of a company on a truck or a bus that doesn't fit into some regulation, that is, there can impose a penalty in the sense of shutting down a bus for 48 hours or in an even worse case for five days. Imagine now what the role of the traffic inspector is to punish him selectively as he wishes. Normally, there's an immediate background for corruption. When it comes to conditions, we were expecting new conditions that would specify the performance of this activity, because the conditions we now have, especially when it comes to the obligation to provide parking space, maintenance of the vehicle and control of the technical correctness of the vehicle. You know from the practice that contracts were mainly purchased and that the carrier never used what the contract said: to keep the vehicle at a certain level, to carry out a technical examination of the vehicle's regularity in a specific place. So he just fictitiously entered it into the contract, and he worked as he thought he should work. It's just that nothing's been done. It'll stay the way it was. Or another example. Domicilic carriers were mainly bus station owners in small towns and cities. The services of these cells were either very small or nothing. And if the transporters didn't use them on the way, there was always a danger of being punished by a traffic inspector, especially now that he's been given an increased possibility of punishment, so he's done drastically to charge a fine for something that's not at all provided as a service. If it is already the conditions that must be stated in this law, we believe that it is necessary, above all, to see: what is its financial option, financial conditions; then, the condition of a good host, the director of companies and carriers - because it is incomprehensible that, if someone is being led by criminal or criminal proceedings, or he has paid the fines on several occasions, that he continues to carry on transport under the same conditions. On the other hand, it is not known what its material capacity is and he would have to submit if nothing else, at least the final account for the previous year; then, confirmation of the underlying assets that he has owned; confirmation that he has paid the tax; that he has settled his pension- invalidity insurance obligations in the last two or three months; that he regularly settles his obligations to the state; and only then has the liability of the carrier. The biggest mistake is that the fines are regulated by being enormously increased. Someone said the maximum penalty was 80,000 dinars. The maximum penalties of 400,000 are now being established. There are frequent cases of fines of 100,000, 120,000 or 200,000. If we take that the earlier mark was much smaller, or had a smaller value, let it be three dinars, and now it's 30, so that's 10 times the value of the stamp, and the fines are gone 40 times. If the fine from 500 dinars is increased to 20,000, it's 40 times the penalty. Did the amendments and additions of this law really come about just by increasing repression and collecting as much revenue as possible from punishment? According to what's been shown here, I think so. For all of these reasons, we of the Socialist Party feel that this law is impeccable and that we simply cannot accept it as such. No matter how much our amendments are accepted, we feel that this law should not be seen by light days. We're against a bill like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14210	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to stick to Article 1. ( 13) and 14). Point 13 should be deleted because there should be no border between Montenegro and Serbia. At point 14), and regarding local traffic, local roads should first be done, those of the same bulldozers that you came to power on October 5th. It seems to me, in villages and towns, these roads cannot be reached by city because they have been destroyed and destroyed. You haven't fixed that infrastructure in a year. Ladies and gentlemen, you're introducing new inspectors who actually need to replace the police, which means that the M.O.P. is losing its authority because of which it actually exists. And when it comes to penalties, you're hitting those penalties on the working class again, because you want those who run vehicles, those high sentences to get out of work, or you want to shut down a lot of car companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14212	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14213	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Honored Madam Ministers, the proposed amendments to the Transport Law, were made only cosmetic amendments to the existing law, mostly restrictively, by introducing new powers of inspection, by introducing new penalties and by inconsistencies of the proposed amendments to this proposed proposal. I couldn't say anything new after the presentation of my distinguished colleague Slobodan Pavlovic, who explained this matter extensively and competently, but I will point to several aspects. First of all, I mean part of the introduction of the rights of inspection bodies to municipalities to control the application of this law by legal entities in traffic. Such powers as are given to inspection bodies, these amendments and additions to the law will not allow all municipal inspections to respond, which work in the field, and they have accepted the powers, because these powers lack a little more competence. In fact, by the powers vested in them by these amendments and by the additions of the Law, they would have to, at the very least, be traffic engineers, combined with the powers of the MUP. First of all, I am referring to Article 44(6), where powers are given to review personal documents, besides other traffickers' IDs. This authority only has Serbia's MUP - to identify citizens and verify their identity, and these powers cannot have a traffic inspector. The amendment proposed and accepted by the government changes inconsistencies. It is changed as much as it is complemented to do, in addition to this, and reviewing other travel documents, it is likely to think of travel documents, travel cards, etc., but it is forgotten that there have been more quality amendments that have predicted eradicating or modifying this article, which are far more consistent and precise in solving this matter. As far as punishment goes, there's a lot of things being said here. (President: Vucurović, Lazic, please don't shout from the end to the end of the hall. I'm either gonna have to take a break, and after that break, I'm gonna give you a heads-up on the speaker, but this really isn't how it works. Fifteen times I'm asking you to hear from me. It really doesn't make sense. Either you calm down or I'm taking a break, and after that, I'm going to tell anyone who's distracting the speaker all over the Rules of Procedure. It really can't be done like this. Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, continue. ) As far as punishment is concerned, it has been tried to explain that the penalties are not so great, but one of my predecessors mentioned that these fines are also 50 times larger, and can be seen from the proposed solution that they are not only 400,000, but 200 and 120, depending on the non-compliance of the members of the law for which these measures are imposed. I fully agree that it should be restrictive when it comes to vehicle malfunctioning, by carrying out mandatory road vehicles of traffic participants, which threaten the safety of passengers and the safety of other traffic participants. But I think it's too much with this leprechaun of penalties that are predicted, as one of my predecessors said in a vivid way, that even for the inadequate inscriptions of the company on the means of transport can be punished and excluded from traffic. When it comes to decommissioning from traffic, it provides for the possibility that the vehicle should be shut down for 48 hours, taking away documents and tables, and then being excluded for several days, or up to five days. I don't know how. If the documents and the plates were taken down, how would the taj be still a traffic participant, while the employer's burden would be carried out by the security of that vehicle. I think such solutions are unacceptable. In the end, I think that these restrictive measures are inadequately restoring what our transport companies are, at least when it comes to passenger traffic and passenger transport, in the period behind us successfully carried out with exceptional efforts to secure spare parts (for sanctions), in providing fuel, inability to conform because of the conditions in which it was being applied. They don't deserve such restrictive measures and such changes and additions, of this law in this direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14214	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14215	Ladies and gentlemen, as most speakers have already said - this law is not reform, it is not comprehensive, it brings nothing new, at least nothing good. Anyway, anything new, it's negative, or it's bad. I will look back on two things which, in my opinion, and the opinion of my parliamentary group, in this proposal to amend and supplement the law badly. The first thing is the level of jurisdiction and the rights of the Republic traffic inspection, which is regulated by Article 18 of this proposal. According to point 6 of point 2, a Republic road traffic inspector has the right and the duty to determine the identity of passengers and persons who are users of transport, which is the control of ID cards. I don't think this measure is too strict, or I don't think it can be given to traffic inspectors this kind of authority. It would be more logical to in some way ensure the coordination of the MUP, to ensure police assistance when passenger control is carried out. The other thing is the criminal provisions of this law. It's already been said here that criminal provisions are too strict, that penalties are increased multiple. The example works only, this is for the section believe it or not, some penalties have been increased even 50 times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14216	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'd say -- we've seen it before. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is in fact the result of what happened we do not know when in parliament the separatist authorities, on the proposal of the separatist government of Milo Djukanovic, in Montenegro. There have been cases like this before, especially when you have delayed the population list because of such and similar ultimatums. We can really expect that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will not come out in the future with serious legal proposals, and in particular, this bill cannot be defined clearly by the end, in substance, all that is needed in the field of road traffic, but that you will be harmonising because, in the past year or already, the government in Montenegro has passed a law that applies in that territory, and you are now, about the same, copying it. Maybe not in all the provisions, probably Mrs. Secretary knows that. On the other hand, the SRS considers that the inability of the current federal government, and hence the entire DOS that participates in the work of the federal government and is in power in the SRJ, is a sighting of the inability for the Federal Road Traffic Inspectorate to exist at all and to operate in the unique territory of our country. Later, when we talk about amendments, I will point to the restrictive nature of this law and all the provisions. But what's true is the words of a private man from Kragujevac, who said, "If we go to pay these fines, we can shut down the companies."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14218	The People's Messenger Branko Ruzic has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14219	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, does not have much new to say, if it is taken into account the very manner of the promoter who, unfortunately, has become an unforgivable rule. It all comes down to the concept of proposing legal solutions by, as they like to say to themselves, the expert governments, which are essentially contained in repressive measures that are important to all legislative proposals, along with, of course, cosmetic changes that are supposed to be externally generating the impression that a new solution is involved. We really expected a reform European bill, following a 1995 legislative solution that was transitional and adopted in accordance with the conditions in which the state was present at the time. We know that we were under the so-called sanctions regime back then. international communities. The basic characteristics of this bill are contained in Articles 20 to 26, those are criminal provisions and penalties which, practically, are increased by 50 per cent of 5,000 per cent. Also, this proposal opens up the possibility of selective treatment of competent inspections in an identical offence, which in any case does not lead to an adequate solution. In the case of certain traffic-organisational solutions, Article 31a introduced in this new draft law is to be cited as an example. The question arises as to why vanlin transport carriers cannot board and disembark passengers at bus stations, but should do so on the city streets, thus jeopardising traffic safety and creating problems for citizens, i.e. endangering the environment. So we have noise, exhaust gas, dirt, etc. Also, traffic organisations or companies have not had the opportunity to fully familiarise themselves with amendments and amendments to the law and give their opinion on the proposed solutions. It has been requested by these companies and organisations to make a new law, which provides far better conditions for the operation and business of traffic undertakings. However, amendments and additions to the law are now being passed, without company participation, which in the existing catastrophic conditions should implement the law and work more successfully. The law was also expected to define public transport of passengers, taxi operations, general transport conditions and problems of bus stations, new concession solutions and others, not that the main accent has multiple increases in criminal provisions, which are not for the creation of order, but for the intimidation and robbery of poor traffic undertakings. It is also given the rights of the Republic's inspection to monitor inter-republic traffic, which is within the jurisdiction of federal authorities and federal laws, because it is a transport between federal units, which, of course, is not the jurisdiction of the Republic. Basically, amendments and additions to the law break federal jurisdiction and create new burdens on traffic parquets, not entering quality new solutions and problems. I believe that such changes and additions to the Law on Transport in Road Transport are not necessary and I believe that we need a new law, which would respect all relevant facts and indeed provide adequate and right solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14220	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected to have regulated legislation in this area, especially legislation regarding road transport. What's characteristic of this bill is that it only goes to a piece, we don't have one coded law, which could sort out this area as a whole. Further what was necessary to do, it is that we do not have all the institutions and experts in this area present here to contribute to the creation of a valid law. He didn't take part here, as far as I know, in the MUP, and above all, the Department of Traffic Security, which was supposed to make the biggest contribution. On the other hand, I don't see these regulations in line with federal regulations. Data are the powers of inspection to exercise control, even the legitimacy of persons in transport, road and bus, which absolutely no law has the right to do so. The question arises: whether these inspectors will be uniform or not, because the question is, who will give a civilian a ID card, when there are no official features, and while he is legitimate, he can even get beaten. It happens a lot in practice. How will that inspector be able to control and legitimize 50 passengers on the bus and search for ID cards? He has no right to do that. It is the only authority of the internal affairs authorities, primarily workers from the Public and State Security Service. I think there are so many objections that I can't get into them professionally, because I don't see any authority here, which came out with a proposal to amend and supplement this law. The effect of a government is not measured by how many laws, regulations and regulations are passed, but by measuring the effect and quality of the government just as much as it has produced and then the Assembly adopted good laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14222	There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14223	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Law on Transport in Road Transport, as well as laws so far, best illustrates that ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are working "who in a wedge, who in a board", or even better, illustrations are doing, that such laws are being passed in the government that are necessary to this people, at that old hit: "Genje me, il tambou buy, something must be hit." The law on chambers of commerce, which we adopted yesterday, thanks to the DOS majority and certain MPs of the opposition, speaks best in favour of it. The law, which is on the agenda today, therefore, of road transport law, is in a major coalition with yesterday's claim by Minister Vlahovic, who said that business entities do not have to be members of chambers of commerce, and in this law it is said that, in the light of this law, carriers, if they are not registered in commercial chambers, are savage carriers and, of course, subject to sanctions. This means that ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia may not see each other at all, as these MPs do not see, and they cannot even agree, nor coordinate, for these legal packages. But they're very keen to say that they've passed 40, 50 laws, it's important that the laws are passed, and whether they're applicable or not, that's less important. That is why I believe, and also because of the great duties mentioned in this law, that it will be necessary to show up Marko Kraljević, to model the communities and to banish the Janisters from these Serbian companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14224	There's a word from MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the explanation of this amendment and the addition of the law clearly speaks for what we need to discuss here. We should discuss whether the Republic's inspection will, since it explains that republican relations are being resolved, whether Serbia's inspection will have the right to enter the bus in Brodarevo or the inspection of Montenegro will enter by the end of Brodarov, and Brodarov has the right to inspection of Serbia. The second major task, which should be this change and the supplement to do, is to solve the republican and rural relations, which is what we had the opportunity, most of us, to watch earlier, from the earlier period, that there is no real republican inspection of half of the Panchean bridge to control the transport of passengers, because it is under the jurisdiction of the circuit inspection. These are key problems, and the problems people face, facing this Serbia, these problems can wait. It would be good if this opportunity was used, like this, just some little help from us Serbian radicals, if you had taken advantage of the Ministry of Special Relations that the Republic of Serbia has with Republika Srpska, to place the road and passenger transport of Republika Srpska in the category as domestic transport. Then, the Serbian radicals, they would welcome me and say, "Here, at least something has changed with these amendments and the additions to the law." We know you can't even say - Republika Srpska, you think and treat them as foreigners, as if they were coming from Albania, because Montgomery has warned you not to say it anymore, let alone in the proposal for an amendment and a supplement to put it on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14226	There's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14227	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the expected new law is not exactly reformal, it has only improved part of this matter. Where are your experts? We expected this law to be proposed and put into practice for the summer season. Diversifications in this area are large and common. These changes and additions aren't exactly solutions. This area should be radically regulated by law, not this one, but the new one, which will be in line with your promises. This proposal only corrects certain things, not solves them essentially. There are illogical comments in this law, and they are related to the work of inspection bodies. For example, Article 45, a rigorous decision to rule out and guard a vehicle. Then, in Article 29, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce will establish new conditions. So why this law if the Chamber of Commerce needs to build it up and do it. This is not technical law, not necessary for some season, but the purpose of this law is very clear: the borders between Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia should be established, and beyond. And we Serbian radicals against these borders. We are fed up with dissension and disunity, so we do not need this law to increase this dissension and disunity. It occurred to someone, which is regulated by this law that passengers cannot carry passengers all the way, or the entire length of the line. It's nowhere to be found.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14228	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by Parliament MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Milky, after I present what I had to say to answer that if she thinks I'm a Kosovo girl, I'm proud of it. Believe me, it would be a great compliment to me if you felt me that way. Time, please, from this moment on. Madam Minister, as a Serbian radical, an absolute part of your reasoning in this law satisfies this particular part where you say that you asked the Federal Ministry to pass a special federal law on inter-republic transport and that you consider it to be a transport between federal units, for which I cannot be a competent republic of a member. That's your attitude that's absolutely clear. In fact, inter-republic transport must be uniquely arranged, and inspection surveillance can be carried out by a federal inspection, which can only have the authority to supervise the entire territory. That's true, and we all have to agree with that, and that's the Constitution, and that's the only logical thing to do. But what's going on? Now the inability to operate at the federal level, DOS resolves by taking federal jurisdiction, i.e. from federal jurisdiction, part of jurisdiction and transferring it to the Republic. It's absolutely unacceptable for us because we are primarily for a single country. In Montenegro, a republican inspector, as Montenegro passed its road traffic law, have jurisdiction not only in inter-local, inter-republic, but also in international traffic. So the federal state is unable to carry out this part of its competence in its entire territory, that is, part of its territory in Montenegro. Please, DOS is in power both at the federal and the republican level, the same DOS, and you cannot agree to move within the framework of the Constitution and the law, you have already begun, as well as Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro, to grab jurisdiction from the federal state, to make it completely unwarranted, inefficient, and thus superfluous. By this law, you have shown us what causes such a law to be passed, and what are the consequences. The consequences are catastrophic. They lead to an even greater distance from the republics of the Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14230	The word is by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14231	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian radicals expect every government proposal adopted in the National Assembly to bring about a better Serbia, that the laws proposed by the economy lead to tax cuts and contributions, in order to enable businesses to work more efficiently, to bring about improvements in social protection laws to those categories of people who will benefit from the rights laid down in these laws, but we are already used to anything proposed by this government continuing to bring about something that is bad to Serbia - a reduction in standards and conditions for work. We would, of course, like to support some government proposal, but you are increasingly proposing such laws that we absolutely cannot agree with, which we think will be harmful if adopted. Madam Minister, or Madam Minister, as our Vice-President or Vice-President Micic says, I would ask you one question: if the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia is allowed and the right to set general conditions for inter-republic transport, does this mean that the Chamber of Commerce is a government body, a government working body or an executive body of the Government? If we allow republican road traffic inspectors to legitimize passengers, will they be cops or parapolitans?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14232	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, and then by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Transport is primarily characteristic of repressive measures, and proposes a rigorous increase in penalties. If you look at it, in article 21, the fine is 400,000 dinars, in Article 22 is 200,000 dinars, i.e. in the first case, the sentence is four times the sentence in force from now on, and in the second case, the sentence is more than 20 times the sentence already prescribed. It is necessary to increase the amount of penalties for inflation now to be followed, but not in these enormous amounts provided for in the draft law. Article 18(6) states that a republican road traffic inspector may, or should, perform, that is his obligation, to legitimise passengers, which is only possible by the authority of the MUP. I have no doubt that our minister has good connections with people who provide other persons, especially in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that perhaps in this way he can have adequate advice on how to legitimize passengers. I'm sure she'll use her right and her ties in the Republic, or the government, but I really don't know how she can realize what she's planning at the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14234	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the pale and inconclusive reasoning of the promoter of the Law on Road Traffic has not convinced me to vote for the adoption of this law. There's a lot of shortages, a lot of provisions that will bring confusion into the traffic sphere. A drastic increase in fines will make it difficult for operators to be in road transport in such an unenviable situation in the face of a major economic crisis. Many of them struggle to restore obsolete trucks, buses, which show signs of time. They have no opportunity to buy new ones, and there is a new problem, a rigorous increase in penalties. The state is obliged to provide the best possible conditions for work, not only to show a strong desire to fill in the budget at the expense of its citizens. The government of the Republic of Serbia, motivated by the relationship of the government of the Republic of Montenegro and Serbia, is trying to influence the formation of public opinion on Montenegro's future referendum and to separate the two republics. What is this legislation on road traffic, which, under the pretext of protecting a poor inspection that is allegedly in a certain position, opens a hunting season for Montenegrin carriers. I'm against any separation between Serbia and Montenegro, no matter what it's called. What has these chambers of commerce to regulate, to determine the general conditions of transport in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Will the Chamber of Commerce, after the eventual adoption of the amendments to the Law on Road Traffic, pass a new law? How will the citizens of Serbia react when the local inspector determines their identity, when he asks for their ID card as if it were an MIP inspector, not traffic? Who can take a look at vehicles and passengers, who can direct the vehicle to a technical inspection? There are many members of the law that are unclear, unsettled and that will bring confusion into the area of traffic. Mrs. Minister had enough time to write a high-quality road traffic law bill, not just for summer or winter opportunities, and with him to go to the National Assembly. All these shortcomings that I have cited are the obvious wish of the promoter to share two republics, to divide one nation, Serbian, Serbs and Montenegrins, and this leads me to vote against the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14236	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I will conclude the initial search and put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on transport in road transport, in principle. For 96, against 50, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yet the people sent us here to do serious work and to do serious work. Look on the screens who voted everything and look at the fourth-row seats here to the last row, from the second row here to the last row, and you'll see that not even close to the number of present is near the cards. Therefore, according to Article 82, I demand the chairman, for our sakes, for the people who chose us, to be well aware of how many of us are really in the O.R., and how many votes were cast, and to know that there are at least 30 false voices.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14238	Of course we can't do that. I can only ask the service to pass the O.R. and draw cards from the MPs' benches, where there are no MPs present. I ask the service to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, draw identification cards from a place where there are no MPs. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14239	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, you now have only 130 present. Assemble the number of votes "yes" and the number of votes "against" and will be greater than 131, and the people will still enter you. How do you feel as chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14240	I understand what you're trying to draw attention to, but now we can't just solve it. If you agree, I suggest that next time before the vote, you suggest that things get in order, and then to approach the vote, because now it's impossible to push things out. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill since it was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Transport and Communications, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not take advantage of the right to report for the second time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group; but, before explaining what the idea and essence of the amendment I submitted to Article 1 was to make one general comment that the amendment and amendments of the Law on Road Traffic were subject to 40 amendments. Of these 40 amendments, the first amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic was quite justified and four amendments were accepted by MP Goran Vesic. He's not here, and it's nothing personal, I'm speaking in principle. Take the report and read it. So, nothing personal, and it has nothing to do with the name Goran Vesic, but I am talking about that of the 40 amendments, 5 of these 5 amendments were accepted by Goran Vesic, and the other 35 amendments submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and the Party of Serbian Unity were rejected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee, including amendments submitted by the chairman of the parent board, Mr Markovic. It is a principled matter, and this confirms what we have always said when adopting other legislative projects, that often or most often amendments proposed by MPs of the parliamentary majority are adopted, and that the most frequently proposed amendments and amendments submitted by MPs from the parliamentary minority are not applied. It is certain, and we all agreed, that these amendments were not always bad, but it was no longer understood to accept our amendments, which were often very correct and very constructive. As for the amendment to Article 1, in my presentation on the principle of discussion, I did not particularly point out that I had an amendment, but three Serbian Radical Party MPs spoke about the matter before me. Article 1, ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen, is added in Article 13 paragraph 13. - inter-republic transport, and it has been said to be a transport that crosses the border between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. At that moment when it was read, it seemed to be a border between the two independent states. The amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic has avoided the matter, so it is said to be administrative borders. This thing can be considered an overrun, but it has announced something that I have submitted to the amendment that in Article 1 point 15, which reads - BIS transport is to carry out cross-border and inter-republic transport with two or more buses of the same carrier, in the same order of driving on the whole line, and to delete point 16. - cabotage, as it is written, is the transport of passengers or things between settlements in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, carried out by a domestic carrier or a carrier that has its business headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Montenegro, in the conduct of inter-republic transport. In response to my proposal for an amendment, the Legislative Committee said it was legal, that it was legally possible, and the home transport committee refused to accept the amendment because the government did not accept it. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not respond. So, the amendment of the MP Slobodan Pavlovic to Article 1. The bill, which reads as I have stated, is rejected for the reason that carrying out a transport with two or more buses in one order of driving leaves room for the purpose of a secretary carrier which the other, or the third bus to be pearled (please, it is the whole story), if they are not obliged to have a driving order, can change tomorrow to the same order of driving and thus endanger other carriers. In my amendment, I've just written that it's unnecessary to keep the point of the 15th law with... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... with the same content, since even the current law is not prohibited from carrying out transport with two or more buses in the same order of driving. What is special (I have considered and considered it now) is illogical to introduce into the law the term and termology used in the jargon of the driver-conductor - BIS departure, because it is sort of tentarian. For illustration, let's say, the legend of our folk music, Miroslav Ilic, perfectly interprets the song, the audience applauds, greets the bis, he sings again. We're not going to be in the Estrada Act to describe that there's a bisque singing... (President: six minutes. ) In relation to point 16. - cabotage - I suggested that it be deleted and explained very precisely. Considering...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14242	Mr. People's Parliament, the time to discuss amendments is five minutes. It's six minutes and twenty seconds now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14243	I'll finish it right now, as a representative of the promoter, if I'm right, I'll be done in 30 seconds. So, Mr Ceda Jovanovic said they have an understanding of the amendments, but not for political reasons or under political pressure. My amendment and my idea are not politically motivated, and they're motivated not to make any difference at the moment when it's being solved, I'm sorry, the fate of the federal state. I wrote that there should be no difference while at least Serbia-Montenegro is in the same state. I am not going to say that this law will solve relations problems, but in a recent issue of the "Politicals", I am sorry that there is no Mr. Marsican, he said that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia should not take minimum actions that could compromise dialogue and resolve relations between the Republic of Montenegro and Serbia in the SRJ. It seems to me that this is the step, and that's why I suggested that point 16 be deleted. Thank you and thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14244	If you spoke as a representative of the parliamentary group, then I conclude that the president of the parliamentary group Branislav Ivkovic is not in the O.R., that there has been a card abuse in row 8. (Freedan Pavlovic: Read the authorization. We understand each other. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic, and the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, and Branislav Ivkovic, the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14245	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is not about the demeaning of the amendment's proposings, or the incorrect attitude towards the proposal only because it stems from the opposition's representatives. On the contrary, I think even those findings that are noted that the amendments of the opposition's MPs are being doubled to amendments by representatives of the parliamentary majority, which are then adopted, meet their effect because our views are being corrected. It is our parliamentary right and we will apply it in the future, by thinking that you yourselves are witnessing the fact that your amendments are being adopted quite often in parliament. There is no incorrect relationship to the opposition here. It's just that you're asking us to deny reality. "BIS carrier" and "cabotage" are actually just a finding of reality. We're going out to meet. We need functional laws, not laws that will in themselves ignore the real situation and then force people who do this work to enter the illegal sphere of their business engagement. Therefore, BIS transport is an inter-urban and inter-republic transport with two or more buses of the same carrier in the same order of ride on the whole. What exactly is this about? It is about situations in which more passengers appear than the capacity of the carrier which is intended for the timing of the journey and which, in itself, only doubles on the same principle. It is in the function of passengers and it corresponds to the carrier and why not make such a thing possible and not foreseeable by law. Kabotage is also something that is our reality, and I think it's a good thing that we treat it with the law, because then we reduce the space for abuse and for avoiding the law. I think we'll talk about all your other initiatives. The amendment explaining the terms of the borders is acceptable for us and we will be very happy to do so, with what I repeat once again, we did not want to politicise this law, because our reality is precisely the borders of the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia which are still made up of SRJ.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14246	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the amendment is good because it was necessary to find a more appropriate word. The bill promoter is right to define one relationship between the carrier and the passengers, which is that there are more, that he can turn on another vehicle, but the word is really rough, and I would have to say that the word is from the jargon. It's not a word you could find in Serbian spelling. The more serious problem is cabotage. I agree here that passenger transport should be defined, regardless of whether the seat of the transporter in Serbia or Montenegro is in inter-republic transport. Not only did you define the concept of cabotage but you immediately told the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Montenegro -- if you get on a bus on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, you will only be able to get on a bus belonging to a carrier from Serbia and to whom it is both an initial and final stop on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That means, if Cetinje's bus leaves Cetinje in Belgrade, he should have some kind of deal, apparently, as we used to do with Hungarians under sanctions. He has an agreement with Serbia's carrier that the moment he enters Serbia's passengers will be moved to the carrier's bus from Serbia, which he will write at the departure of Brodarevo-Belgrade. Then he can stop at the stations and pick up passengers and get the passengers out. If he starts with Cetinje, from the moment he enters Serbia, he can no longer receive passengers. The passengers can come out because they took a ticket from Cetinje, for example, to Gornji Milanovac. But no one is allowed on the bus in Gornji Milanovac, because this pointless provision on the ban on cabotage will be taken politically, whether you want to or not. I listened while you were in opposition to constantly talking about Milo Djukanovic running away from the dictatorial regime in Belgrade, pulling democratic moves, protecting his country, keeping the citizens of Montenegro from the terrible pressure coming from Belgrade, that all it takes is to change power in Belgrade, and then Serbia-Montenegro will immediately smooth out relations. Here, the government changed more than a year ago, and relations are not only not smooth, but we are several months away from the referendum on the secession of Montenegro. This is pushing, this is pushing Montenegro in its own way. As is the border that was set in Brodarevo and which still works today - pushing Montenegro, so is this law, and this dispute over whether JAT can land in Tivat, whether it owes JAT airport or owes Montenegro's carrier to the airport, and there are relations completely undefined. I'd rather we finally defined it once than deal with this law, but now, what's there? I think you can avoid negative connotations, negative impressions. Don't argue that this is the answer to Montenegro's behaviour. If we, while exercising power, had each responded to the behaviour of Montenegro in the same way, there would have been no Federal Republic of Yugoslavia long ago. Serbia is a larger member of our Federation. Serbia has to put up with it a little bit. Don't make it difficult for you. The interest is so great that Serbia can also abstain and that it does not have to correspond adequately to every measure of a smaller partner, who needs to be convinced that his interest is to remain in the common state, if he wants to have a state at all. We would be better able to convince them if we were to point out to them, for example, Macedonia, if you asked them what the state would look like in a year or two, than by showing them how, here, as soon as they introduced some measure and we were written enough to introduce that measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14248	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14249	I thank you, Madam Chairman, although it was probably ironic in your words when you said that I wasn't present in the O.R., around the card, precisely because I called out a very unpleasant situation in this room, and that's the fact that the sum of votes for and against the adoption of the law was in principle 25 smaller than the actual number of cards and present in the O.R. when I warned. You know, I'm not the D.A. Jeca, etc. It's about the following, dear gentlemen, we are here in the Assembly chosen... There's some aunts ironing here again, please, how long will that take? [[Sagar.]] Irregularity. Ask your children what that expression means. Please, we have been chosen to do serious things, to adopt legal projects that define Serbian citizens the way and style of life, both in the economy and in personal life. So, what's going on? They're sitting at the bar of men, and someone's pushing for 10 here. So that's inconclusive. Then let only the presidents of the parliamentary groups press here, and you are all other robots, go out nicely to the restaurant, take the diaries, finish the job. Irregularity. I would like to return to the appointment of MP Slobodan Pavlovic. I don't know how much you know, but right now in the Parliament of the Republic of Montenegro, a draft law on the referendum has been rejected. So they are strengthening the forces of mature people who are thinking about the importance of the survival of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. How are we today with the term "cabotage" responding to those forces? With these forces, with the term "cabotage", which probably no one understands alive, we respond the following way -- a passenger who sits in Podgorica on a bus to Belgrade cannot get off to Chačka, or Užica, or Gornji Milanovac. That's about what it looks like to you. Why would we do that? If they're Montenegrins, please... [[Sagar.]] (Glass: It's not true. I'll tell you what I read. I read that in the inter-republic relationship, a carrier cannot transport within the Republic of Serbia between the two cities. If this is translated into Serbian, one who moves from Podgorica to Belgrade cannot take a passenger to Uzic and take him to Cacko. For what? If Milo Djukanovic did it in Montenegro, even though I don't know why we should do it. For what? It is a very sensitive political moment, and I propose that Mr Slobodan Pavlovic's amendment be adopted, which will allow the inter-republic relations and the Montenegrin carrier to take a passenger and hand him over, as well as the carrier from the Republic of Serbia, so that we do not give arguments precisely in political connotation that the great Serbia dictates behaviour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14250	The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic - what is the announcement? Replica, it's the wrong interpretation of exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14251	Dear colleagues, I agree that the concept of cabotage and BIS may be too narrow and professional beyond our usual work, but you have completely misread cabotage. (Glass: sabotaging.) No, it's not about any sabotage. I'll try to practically explain what this is about, considering this is really technical law. We, like the Serbian Parliament, are obliged to create such a market environment in which we will protect the interests of carriers from the territory of our republic, without jeopardising the interests of anyone else. So it is not true that the bus leaving Podgorica cannot be left in Gornji Milanovac, Čačka or Valjevo. These buses alone cannot take over passengers in Serbia's territory, because we as a parliament must pass a law that is in the function of the Republic of Serbia and the carriers that this law treats. We do not endanger anyone's right, but there is not much logic in a parliamentary decision that will allow the 100km road to be made available to carriers from Serbia and 400km of road transport from Montenegro. Those who want a different relationship must build this relationship on market logic. We're ready for something like that. But at this point, we protect the interests of carriers from Serbia, by not legally allowing an equal sign to be placed between 100km of road in Montenegro and 400km of road in Serbia. The cabotage is professional, but it came from economic logic. It is unacceptable for us to suffer internal transport in Serbia's space because passengers are being taken over by carriers from Montenegro's space. I agree that we can discuss this, but when all the other obstacles that exist at the moment are lifted, all the other restrictions that narrow down rights, and thus economic freedoms, carriers from Serbia's space. We are obliged to set the relationship between Serbia and Montenegro on a realistic basis. Every other sacrifice of both interests is a sacrifice that can have a brief effect. But it's more strategically worse, because we're complicated relationships and we're leading to the situation that we're living in today. So, the settled relations between Serbia and Montenegro are our ideal, but they are not reached through the economic damage of one or the other republic, but rather through the creation of a common interest that is acceptable for both sides. The Kabotage may be professional, but you have misread it and I am therefore asking this Parliament to support our position.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14252	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go. Was that a replica on the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14253	Dear Mr. Chairman, it is not clear to you, but here in addition to the cabotage (sabotage voices) you mentioned - k - by the MPs and indeed it is not easy for you to sit down and hold a session with such people who first confuse their parents and their method of education. Irregularity. I apologize to the ladies. I don't mean men. To conclude - first, it is not clear to me how Mr Cedomir Jovanovic received the word because it was not a replica, its name was not mentioned, nor was the party mentioned -- a parliamentary group, whose president he is. But anyway, if he got the word very well understood and what he said. Those based in Montenegro are becoming more unfavourable than Serbian carriers, and we are trying to preserve the federal state of Yugoslavia and explain to the citizens of the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia that they live in one country. That's all it's about and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14254	The word of the People's Messenger is Tomislav Nikolic - according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14255	I can see that many of you know what I'm going to say, but you have to say it for the public. The National Assembly was called here to plead for a very bad and definition and explanation. We have heard here that there is a need to apply the reciprocity ratio between Serbia and Montenegro, how many kilometers in Montenegro, to worry that it is four times more in Serbia. No, the Federal Constitution of the SRJ, Article 13, says: "The SRJ is a unique economic area and has a single market. In SRJ, innovation is based on the legality of the market." Don't introduce a relationship now, big brother, little brother, so much goods from Montenegro, so much for me in Montenegro. You don't do that with Germany either. Our deficit against Germany is terrible. Do not vote against this amendment, acting on the fact that we should treat Montenegro like someone who is small, so how much we give it. Vote against the amendment if your conscience so commands, but the Constitution of the SRJ speaks otherwise. This can't be an explanation for not accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14256	What did the Rules of Procedure carry with you? If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 43, against 99, the abstention of four, was not voted by 14, a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Golub Rajic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Transport, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 where I have proposed that this member be deleted, considering that he is completely unnecessary, because how else can a vehicle be used to withdraw a registration and registration license when inspection is carried out? In so far applicable law, this is Article 3, which states that road transport is carried out by vehicles that meet the conditions laid down in traffic safety regulations on roads and standards for certain types of vehicles. In heading 2: "Vehicles carrying out public transport and transport for their own purposes must be maintained and controlled regularly, in order to ensure their permanent technical correctness and safe use in traffic". In the proposal to amend and supplement this law, point 3 is now added, which says: "It is forbidden to use a vehicle which is excluded from traffic during the duration of the exclusion." I think it's too high because that's how it's supposed to be - that a vehicle can't be used when it's turned off. This is also indicated by Article 19 of this Bill, which is Article 44a, where point 5 states: "In the exercise of inspection supervision, the republican road traffic inspector is required and authorised to exclude a vehicle carrying out public transport and transport for its own purposes against the provisions of the law, determine the place of parking and withdraw traffic permit and registration plates". Well, then how can you use a vehicle? So I don't think the government's explanation given in the rejection of this amendment is justified, because it is possible for one vehicle to use plates and traffic permits from another vehicle - only if the inspector doesn't work securely and according to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14258	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14259	It's usually said that the extra head doesn't hurt. But this amendment should be accepted, if for nothing else, and because of the reasons of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which rejects the amendment. What's this about? It is provided for in Article 2 to prohibit the use of that vehicle during the duration of the disfellowshipping of the vehicle. Look, when he shuts down his vehicle and takes away his license plates and his registration license, I really want to know why you're telling him now that it's still forbidden to use it. Well, of course it's forbidden. Now you're going forward, he says -- he's going to use a plate and a license from a vehicle that's, say, impossible to travel, wrong, so on that truck or that bus that got his plates off, put the plates on another truck, he's going to get a traffic license from another truck, and he's going to drive that car through the highways. If it were allowed, you would now forbid it, but it's forbidden by other laws. It is forbidden for you to place plates on another vehicle from one vehicle and use a traffic licence from another vehicle. Anyone who stops you on the road and compares the type of car, the number of the engine, the number of the box, will automatically shut you out of traffic. Let's just say it's allowed, and you really want that car to be out of the way, so you can say it's forbidden to that car. But he's forbidden, as soon as his plates and his traffic permit are removed, then he falls under other laws; with this Article 2, which you forbade to use, you didn't provide for punishment in criminal provisions. You're just freaking out. Now you say it's forbidden to use that car, I say it's forbidden by other laws. But if this law is forbidden, what is the penalty under this law? Will the carrier lose his license for three months, six months, a year? There is no criminal provision for non-compliance with this, but will be punished under the second law, under the Traffic Safety Act, etc. I think this article 2 is unnecessary and the amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14260	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 29, against 101, there were no abstentions, there was no 16 vote, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14261	Since it really is only a minor difference in the interpretation of my amendment and the part of the text entered into the law, I am withdrawing the amendment to this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14262	I find that MP Rade Bajic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 5. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6, where I have proposed that item 4 be changed and that it reads: "A inter-republic transport between settlements, of which at least one is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Montenegro". In the explanation I gave, I don't think inter-republic transportation should be conditioned by using only bus stations, because many municipal places in both republics don't have bus stations. This Article 6 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Transport better defines Article 14 of the valid, up to now applicable law, which regulates how line transport is carried out; and this: 1) urban transport, 2) suburban transport, 3) inter-urban transport, and now adds 4) inter-republic transport between settlements in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, using bus stops, without the possibility of using bus stops. I suggested that this be a different formula, not to be conditioned by the use of bus stations, because a lot of municipal places are not there. And the final position of the applicable law states that the municipality, or city, determines the positions that can be used for the transport of passengers by line. The government's reasoning for refusing this amendment, in order to allow its content to be misused in the registration process and over-the-counter of driving orders in inter-republic line transport, I don't think it stands, because the purpose of the amendment was that the possession of bus stations should not be a condition for inter-republic transport, since bus stations provide the owners with a monopoly position, which is against the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14264	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 28, against 94, the abstentions, were not voted 24, a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14265	On Article 7, I have submitted an amendment to delete Section 2. Normally, when the opposition submits an amendment, it takes a lot of arguments and a lot of arguments to accept it, but it's usually not accepted, and there's a very symptomatic explanation here of the Committee, when he refused. In this regard, point 2 reads: "The time of departure from the initial and final station, i.e. the bus stop and the time of arrival and departure at all bus stations and bus stops on the line, must be consistent with the time of driving suitable for safe traffic". The argument is: "Amendment is rejected for the reason that the provision of Article 7 of Article 2 provides for a new element for the content of the driving order form". And where's that element in item 2, did anyone read it and do anyone know it? As a condition for registration and for the order of driving in the inter-urban and inter-republic transport of passengers, and as a function of increasing traffic safety in the operation of this type of transport, as regulated by Article 220. The law on traffic safety, I felt that this Article 2 should not stand here at all because it is precisely regulated there, and here it is given a flat-rate, so the explanation has absolutely nothing to do with the position of Article 2(7).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14266	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 34, against 102, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Government and the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14267	Dear fellow Members of the People, my amendment, which applies to Article 8, I suggest that Article 1 be deleted. In Article 16(1), point 1 is replaced by point (a) and point (b) of Article 1 is replaced by point (c) and the words are added: and inter-republic transport if there is a common agreement on the operation of inter-republic transport with a carrier from the Republic of Montenegro. In my view, this stance should be deleted, it should not stand in the law, because such a solution would come into the situation for carriers from the Republic of Serbia to be blackmailed by a small number of carriers from the Republic of Montenegro. If this attitude remains, we are practically strengthening that inter-republic border. I don't think this position would have any purpose and would not be in the interest of carriers from either republic, Serbia and Montenegro. I apologize, in this amendment, I also suggested that the words "an agreement on the joint operation of inter-republic and inter-republic transport" be deleted in Section 4. and the explanation is the same as in the previous position.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14268	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 105, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miomir Ilic and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted the 9th amendment together. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14269	Dear People's MPs, I have proposed that this member be deleted, and the explanation is as follows - in Article 20 of the existing law, it states that "the departure from the inter-republic transport order will be deleted from the register and in the case where the body, or the association of carriers, is responsible for the registration and over the order of driving in the Republic of Montenegro, shall be carried out by erasing the driving order, or departure from the driving order. "The provisions of this article are unacceptable because they allow driving orders to be deleted from the register on the basis of different criteria. The criteria must be uniform, agreed and certainly more flexible than in the republican traffic (thinking the Republic of Serbia), especially as the largest number of bus lines between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro have a seasonal character. At the beginning and the end of the season, it is not easy to identify them because they are subject to many unfavourable influences. For that reason, I find this member here foolish, in the bill of law, and that he should be deleted. The argument given by the Government when rejecting this amendment says that these reasons cannot be accepted, as transporters in inter-urban passenger transport are placed in an unequal position with respect to carriers in inter-republic passenger transport in the event of erasure of departure from the driving order. I think this is an unreasonable argument and that this should be deleted for reasons that even in inter-urban line traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, this law is not applicable now. It is not applicable for this reason that we now have the territory of the Republic of Serbia as uniform, but from a few days ago we have Hekerup's Kosovo, so cross-border and cross-border traffic will be on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the same position as is proposed in this case in this legislative proposal. I think the amendment should be accepted and this member of the bill deleted. In accordance with Article 82 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I ask the President of the Assembly before deciding on the amendment to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-22-0.u14270	Please confirm the quorum. Let's take a walk, let's count it. I'm asking the service to count those present. We don't have a quorum. We interrupt the session and resume Monday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session of the representatives of 143. Please determine the quorum for work. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Mihajlo Jagodić, Stevan Lilić, Milutin Svetović, Milos Lukić, Visnja Nežić, Dusan Budišin, Zoran M. Nikonic, Dragor Hiber, Milos Lučić, Sava Popadić, Jakov Stamenković, Išpanovic Istvan, Živica Predojev, Juhas Atila, Biači Anton, Kermeci Karolj, Branislav Pomorski, Zoran Bošković, Petar Mišić, Vladan Jovičić, Nebojsa Leković and Milija Jovanovic. Gordana Komic announced a delay. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF TRANSPORT LAW IN DURMS COOPERATION (specificities) We continue the search by amendment submitted jointly by MPs Miomir Ilic and Zoran D. Nikolic to Article 9. I remind you that the MP Miomir Ilic participated in the review of the amendment on behalf of the amendments. In order to know what this is about, I would suggest that, if he feels he has needs, he re-explains the amendment. There's no need. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 41, Prot 101, the abstentions are missing, did not vote 13, a total of 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. So I don't forget, to inform you that the session of the Youth and Sports Committee will be held at the session break at 14.00 on the second floor. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
