ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4679	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 115 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find we don't have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. [[after breaks]] I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Siniši Mitrovica, Dusan Golubović, Zahari Trnavčević, Gordani Comić, Milos Lučić, Velimir Živojinović, Živoci Predojev, Atili Juhas, Vladan Jovičić, Vuk Antonijevic, Marko Jakšić, Dragisa Djokovic, Borislav Novakovic and Borvoj Mijatovic. For the morning: Dusan Petkovic, Dusan Budišin, Vojislav Obradovic and Pal Shandor. The delay was announced by Miroslav Martic and Natasa Micic. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON WORK RELATIONS (addition) The word has a People's MP Miomir Ilic, followed by the National MP Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4681	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law is one in a series of laws presented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the public, citizens for the prosperity of this country. In my discussion, I will make those remarks and those considerations that I consider to be, as an MP, unacceptable from the aspect of the SPS. Article 1 The draft labour law suggests that a worker who could not be granted any of the rights of this member (scheduling to another job with the same or another employer or to qualify, requalified or trained to work at another job with the same employer or another employer;) it is envisaged that such worker may stop a working relationship on condition that it is previously paid: from 8-10 years of employment double, instead of 6 earnings; of 10-20 years of standing triple instead of 8 earnings; from 20-30 years of fourfold, instead of 10 earnings, over 30 years of providing a five-fold amount of earnings instead of a 12-fold amount of net earnings. To remind myself that earlier solutions to this law for such cases have provided for settlements to payment of a cash fee of between 24 and 36 achieved for the month preceding the month in which the employment relationship ends. It's about workers whose work has stopped the need, the technological surplus, due to organizational and technological changes. It is certain that in the coming time there will be a number of changes in all businesses. If it is now presented that we have an excess of about 45% of the total number of employees, it can be assumed that in due course there will be 200 to 250,000 extra workers who are to be employed by the companies, the staff, the qualified or overqualified to be employed by themselves or by another company or, if not able to do so, then businesses pay depending on the year of employment of two to five average salaries. I have to say, what's a little, it's very small. If we take an example of how much this would be, if that's net, it's 8,000, 12,000, 16,000 or 20,000 or gross, as our finance minister says, that gross on the net will be not 1.2, but 0.8 or 0.7. That's not enough, from my point of view. In the current state of life-cost movement, the overwhelmingly consumer basket of a four-member family in which they work two, the standard of living remains at the level of free existence, and where one works, the family is brought into a state of biological extinction. Who can find a job for a period shorter than two or five months, when and now unemployed with a college whose preparation for employment provides funding for a year, and 80% of the average in the economy, are waiting for a job from three months to one year. No one can support them. And the workers who are technologically surpluses are the supporters and can't become supporting faces. The next argument is that the severance funds are absolutely insufficient for a worker who is technologically excess by these means or others, but I don't know what funds they are, start some work, open a workshop, shop or something like that, or that those funds are written by other similar or new ones. I have no idea what could begin as an economic activity with initial funds ranging from 130 to 660 marks. The excuse that this is all so, that it goes from net to gross, I can argue with the very evidence in the argument given by the government. It says here that the transition from the net to the gross income and taxation that goes in all these aspects is the justification that it is a grey economy, that by actuating the grey economy, by paying for a warm meal, a regression, a field supplement, which will not be paid in nature, that is, all payments go in cash, is another burden on the economy which at this point is not strong enough to counter new trends and new directions that the government has predicted. The reasons given in the third paragraph for adapting legal solutions to European Union legislation, I can say that it is nothing. First of all, in the European Union, the members of those countries that have destroyed this country are members. They destroyed our facilities, such as the flag in Kragujevac, such as "DIN" in Nis, "14 October", "Milan Blagojevic" in Luciani, "Krusik" in Valjevo and other facilities. Someone might say this isn't on the agenda, but in order for it to be on the agenda, I'm going to mention that by destroying these industries, the workers on the street are left behind and now, according to these legal solutions, fall under this treatment that they can come under some of these blows and find themselves unemployed. These countries have previously to pay for damages, not to come and clean up the Danube and these bridges that we've fixed in a year, on which, as you say, we took pictures, but to take everything they have, to clean up for free, and no donor. It's their duty. When they do, then we can compare and take some of their methods, as they say here, legislation from the European Union. The reasons given in the refusal of amendments that are MPs from the opposition, the SPS and other opposition parties, the SRS and the USSR, gave, and which you probably won't accept from your familiar position, are that same and say that you who suggest it are counter-argumented. I'm just going to read an explanation for the refusal of an amendment from MP Nikolic. He says, "For the above reasons, we do not think that the proposed amount of severance should be increased, as this would burden employers who have employees whose work has ceased their need. As a rule, it is about employers who are in a difficult financial situation who do not have the means to pay off high severance employees whose work has stopped the need. Employers should be assured that they are operating on market principles and that, in the context of their needs, they determine the number of employees needed, not that they bear the burden of social care for employees whose work has stopped the need." This is where the government protects neither the amendments nor the workers nor the least employers. The government should protect workers by listening to what is good in the government's proposal, as well as in the amendment proposed by the opposition MPs. As for employers, I, as one of those, who has been participating for 30 years in management as an employer, can say that as of June 1st, when all these laws come into force, I think that everything that has been written and brought here, that this employer needs no help but simply needs to be picked up and can go free. Since yesterday, the Minister of Labour and Labour said that all of us who are in opposition are criticizing the proposals and giving one connotation that all those laws that were before, which we justify are correct, that it was as if it were on the radio, or as if it were in heaven. I'm not going to say it was in heaven, but I can freely conclude at the end of my exposure that these proposals in this whole package of laws are bringing citizens, workers and employers to hell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4682	The People's MP Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and after that, MP Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4683	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Labour Relations Act, which is now on the agenda, I will try to explain in short lines, in principle. This law provides that all labour standards should be governed fiscally according to European norms or European legislation. Is it the European legislation that should affect that and the existing relations in this law should be devalued for example, the first members of this law provide restrictive measures from 6 to 2 salaries, i.e. from 8 to 3 salaries and so on? That's the point that's here today in front of us. This law will organise a newspaper that needs to be harmonised, which is to pay taxes from contributions and profits. It can only be transmitted when our economy and people work. The law regulates the principle of gross earnings. All income on the basis of employment relations, earnings, earnings and income allowances are entered in gross, as well as contributions to compulsory social security and income taxes. It's all correct, but how are you going to implement it or how many people are going to enforce this law? When, according to all forecasts, foreign mentors, and this is what Minister Milovanovic said should be revitalised in order to fire one million workers, and then receiving those same workers in principle -- you are good and you are no longer coming. This law can also be applied without the shock of therapy the moment the promised six billion dollar money enters the country. At that moment, you can talk about eliminating the gray economy and paying off the goods. At that time, workers will certainly be somewhat satisfied because the gray economy will no longer have a foothold in that space. So the money you promised to turn into new forms of work and revitalization of the economy. The employers then receive loans, open new lines, replace old machines with new and similar ones and make this labour law only then a start that needs to be integrated into the European Community, which you DOS people comment on every day. A law which does not have an economic background cannot be passed, and this basis is organised production. You know how many companies in the country work today and produce the best. They're doing information houses today, but they're only part of your info system. We have seen that Parliament is part of the production said once by Mr. Martian - we will work as a factory and we will stamp all new laws, and you have seen that very factory does not work very well with the director of that factory called Mr. Martian. There's something wrong with them all the time, and those mistakes in the factory are responsible Serbian radicals, because they're supposed to not function the way Mr. Martian wants them to. However, the people estimate it differently. It was seen that this factory -- Parliament operating in the absence of those workers called Serbian radicals. That's when the system starts. Let's get this job done as fast as we can until they get back. It's been seen in the past few days, and in this factory is a problem and a quorum that can't be formulated at all times and at all times and that's one of the problems of this factory that makes all these laws. All workers working with DOS markings, which are MPs, have not yet matured and have not justified the trust they have received from the people. There and that's all connected to this law that's now on the agenda. The labour law also includes the discipline of an employer towards a worker, and I don't know if you understand it or if you only understand it in principle. Does the government participate in this new law factory, and it's nowhere to be found and the people see it thanks to the TV cameras? Let the government go beyond our Parliament in the future. Why do they need our people's opinion? It is important to the government what the gentlemen of Brussels, the Germans, the Italians, the Austrians, the English, the Spanish, the Hungarians, the Romanians and everyone else. What would they sit in the congregation and waste time when their time is the money from six to seven billion that they're waiting for out there in the white world, and the people are deceived. The future returns, which is the future, when it will arrive. She's arrived at Djelic's ideas. Does he know what he said? He acts like we don't know anything about these laws or those projects he's been defending or not defending. This law provides for some social security, and that social security amounts to 1,900 dinars, or it is greater than the previous social security that cannot at this time balance with this famous consumer basket which is much greater. A worker with that minimum security can only vegetate, and that means two days of the sun three days of the wind, that's when the system of bonsai -- you have everything in a minimum context. This law is just a form for filling that budget of yours, because you're probably announcing new laws on working relationships that will only come on the agenda, and that leads you to the observation that your experts are not experts.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4684	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Seselj, then Mr. Markovic, followed by Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've answered the floor under Rule 208. The Rules of Procedure and I request an explanation from the president of the National Assembly and the competent ministers. Yesterday, a large group of citizens, relatives of people kidnapped in Kosovo and Metohija demonstrated in Belgrade, sought admission to Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic and Justice Minister Vladan Batic. Cabinette head Zoran Djindjic lied to them that those ministers were not in Belgrade, and we saw that Vladan Batic was at a meeting of the National Assembly. The Serbian government absolutely has no intention of making any move to examine the fate of the kidnapped, kidnapped Serbs, and their relatives are humiliating themselves on Belgrade streets and meeting police cordonies. In fact, no one officially wanted to take them. I demand on the basis of Article 208. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to determine why no one wanted to receive the relatives of the kidnapped Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and to perform the National Assembly. If he wishes, he may also ask a matter of pause until it is determined by Article 93. Rules of Procedure. I do not insist on a break, but I insist that the president of the National Assembly gathers information on why Cabinette head Zoran Djindjic lied to these poor people that the ministers are not in Belgrade, and Minister Batic appears at the assembly session and why none of the senior state officials received these citizens, because in their enormous torment at least a word of comfort would mean a lot, but state officials avoid seeing them because they cannot explain their passivity, their indolence to the fate of the kidnapped Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4686	You brought two things out here. First of all, according to the Rules of Procedure, you can do what you have done, and that is to ask for notice of the work of the National Assembly on the facts that help the MP to carry out his duties. This has been established by this Rules of Procedure, but you have the right to ask a parliamentary question at the end of this session, either verbally or otherwise, as the Rules of Procedure requires, so by written means, and of course, you will get the answer. I just have to say the shortest time to say that you've made a lie, it's not true that the citizens who have gathered have been refused to accept it. I personally spoke to them and suggested that a group of 15 to 20, given that the meeting was under way here, be admitted to the premises of the National Assembly, which they refused. I'm not giving you my word. First, let's make sure the Rules of Procedure are broken. You'll call again, and you'll get your word back. So are you satisfied with the explanation or are you asking that this question be broken by the Rules of Procedure of Rule 208 of the National Assembly? (Vojislav Seselj: I have answered the Rules of Procedure. Before you put it to the vote, I'll check back in with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4687	Mr. President, MPs' questions are regulated by other members of the Rules of Procedure. There is one chapter relating to parliamentary matters. According to Article 208, I did not file a parliamentary question, but asked you to collect information. When I was talking about high-ranking state officials, I meant executive power. The president of the assembly can't be that high-ranking state official who's going to debate, he can accept citizens of course, but he can't be the one who's going to file accounts why the state doesn't do anything to find the kidnapped Serbs and don't defend yourself, at least not if you're not attacked. I often attack you and then you can defend yourself, but this time I absolutely didn't attack you. I'm attacking the executive government, and I'm asking you to find out why no minister in the Serbian government wanted to receive these poor people, especially those ministers who were wanted. Why the head of the cabinet, as reported by today's press, Zoran Djindjic lied that Vladan Batic and Dusan Mihajlovic were not in Belgrade, that they were on their way, and Vladan Batic appeared here in the National Assembly and sat before all of us. I asked for it. I'm not asking you here to vote whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken or not. We'll vote on that if you don't get this information. You are now required, before any vote, to obtain information, why this has happened, to inform us about it, and then to vote whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken or not. The Rules of Procedure may be broken if you do not comply with my request regarding Article 208. Only then can he be broken. What you would put to the vote is now pointless. You haven't broken the Rules of Procedure yet, and I hope you won't, but you will safely now request a statement from the responsible members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4688	Of course, that would be possible, Mr. MP, if you knew a little better about the division of legislative and executive powers, the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government, as set out in the Rules of Procedure of the Government Act. As President of the Assembly, who you are asking me to do so, I cannot do as you have suggested, and because of this, the possibility of asking parliamentary questions is listed in the Rules of Procedure. So you're not asking for an answer from me, you're asking the Parliament to get a response from the Government, because the Rules of Procedure has established the procedure to get answers from the Government. So go ahead and apply that Rules of Procedure. I'm sure the answer will arrive very soon. (Vojislav Seselj, from place: again according to the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4689	Mr. President, I know that DOS is a very unpleasant subject to you, but I insist on it. Mr. President, I know what my rights are as an MP. Whether or not I'm going to be handling parliamentary matters, that's what I'm going to decide. This is where I ask you, as President of the Assembly, to ask for it, you ask for it, so if you don't get it, I expect you yourself will launch an initiative to replace the government, if the government doesn't respond, precisely because of the role of the legislative authority in the system of division of power. The legislative authority is in addition to what laws are passed, and a government that controls the work of the executive authority. The executive authority must account for the legislative authority. I can't wait for the Prime Minister to refuse you information, that you suggest it to the National Assembly, because then the question of trust is raised to the government. Don't be afraid the Prime Minister won't answer. Try to get an adequate answer, so if you don't get an answer or you're not satisfied with the answer, let the National Assembly know, and then we'll discuss the government's responsibility. The government has to be responsible. Maybe the government can't find out anything about the fate of the kidnapped Serbs, because Kosovo and Metohija are under occupation. But the government has to file accounts, what she did to try to find out about their fate and what measures she's taken. The government must answer why no minister, particularly called ministers, would accept the relatives of the kidnapped Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4690	If we've finished this debate, if you think we've used enough of someone else's misfortune to move on. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: the breach of the Rules of Procedure). According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4691	Mr. President, honourable MPs, I think a broken article in 98 says nice - a speaker can talk about issues that are on the agenda. I'm just saying, that MP Petar Hungarian and I, yesterday when these people demonstrated outside the Parliament building, were outside with these people, that we talked to them, that some MPs, in fact, we saw Mr. Stevo Dragisic from the Serbian Radical Party, at the moment he was coming out of the building, that these people, Mr. Dragisic, were whistled and shouting --uh, radicals. I ask you no longer to use this pay phone for such things, because you are to blame for everything that has happened to these people, you and your incompetent authority have brought the occupation forces to Kosovo and thanks to you, these people are here and among other things and you are to blame for it, this is under Article 98, and please do not defend them anymore, because they do not ask you to do so. They're asking us, new authorities, to help them, and we're going to do everything we can to help them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4692	I'm asking you really not to open a discussion on this issue, it's not on the agenda, just to focus on whether someone, and who, asks the government and what information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4693	Mr. President, in Article 78(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the president represents the National Assembly, continues to do other jobs. In Article 73. Constitution, Article 1, point 11. - The National Assembly is in control of the government's work. According to Article 208, we asked you to exercise that control over the work of the government by providing us with information and Article 208. The Rules of Procedure allow us to ask you for this information, so that we can successfully perform the functions of the Members of Parliament. That's not a parliamentary question. We need information, Mr. President, whether the government cheated on citizens who asked the government yesterday to see certain ministers or not. This will then produce some other consequences, some other actions will introduce into the Assembly, to which MPs have the right. At this time, in order to know whether a matter of trust should be raised to the Government or to certain ministers, we are asking Mr. President for information, and the press is telling us that a group of citizens, 1, 50, 500 of them, is not important yesterday, deceived by the government's representatives and told that certain ministers recorded by the camera, are waiting for the end of the session to give the final word, to match the MPs, that they were not in Belgrade, and they were. Nothing else is asked of you. Put that dot on the agenda, you can do it today. Stop the current session, temporarily during the session, put this item on the agenda and then let your MPs come out to determine both guilt and responsibility and what we will do next, especially what and how we will proceed. No more statements from the president, some of the presidents of Parliament clubs, to replace the work of the National Assembly, and don't let your service hurt the Constitution, too, don't let those statements signed by you several, declare the decisions, the conclusions of the National Assembly. What was not voted on here can never be an act of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Stevo Dragisic, from the city: the breach of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4694	And last time, you can't go before me, Mr. Dragosic, I have to answer the Rules of Procedure. I thought you ran. I think we should really end this completely infertile debate. Of course, you've done nothing wrong, you've read the Constitution, and the Constitution says what it says. You know very well that the relationship between the Assembly and the Government is established by the Law on Government and above all by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, in section 14, in the members, and there are more, not to read them now, and we do not waste time. In that part, in that section of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, it was determined how the National Assembly controls the government. There is one more, unfortunately, that is my great desire, to introduce into Parliament the institution of impelation, and unfortunately, while we have these sessions, we cannot introduce the interpretation as a democratic achievement, but we will probably come to this, and then there will be the possibility that all the members of the government will be lined up here and that every MP, again in accordance with the procedure, will be questioned about their work, asking questions and getting answers. You know very well, as you well know, that section three is in Article 28 and further established the obligation of the President of the National Assembly. Find that obligation of mine, find that authority of mine, that I do not respect Section 14, the procedure for the control of the work of the executive authorities, or the Government, and I will give you the right. Please, let's really stop this debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4695	Mr. President, you injured the Rules of Procedure when you allowed this debate to take place by giving the D.O.S. MP the opportunity to discuss this matter. And it's true that I was in front of the Assembly at the time, that I was out, and I heard a semi-hysteric voice coming out. When I turned around to see which fool I only saw that MP, who now said it. And the real reaction to the SRS was when the president of the SRS came out, Dr Vojislav Seselj. He's been welcomed by ovations. There was no fool from this assembly at the time to organize failed attempts at shouting SRS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4696	If we're done with this, the word has been made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4697	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I called at the beginning of this word session, but Mr. President of the Parliament didn't notice me. I wanted to say a few words about the lack of quorum. You of DOS who have 176 MPs, this does not apply to those who keep coming and attending all the sessions, you have an obligation, gentlemen, to come and attend all the sessions, because the only thing you know is to press the red button and enter the diary. Just to remind you, there will be over 25,000 dinars in this month's pay, gentlemen. On the other hand, to remind you that the average personal income in Serbia is four thousand dinars, for example in Jagodina is the average personal income of 2,700 dinars. Due to the lack of quorum from January 22nd to the day of today we have lost at least three sessions, times 11,000 marks, that's 33,000 marks, so much you're costing this Republic of Serbia, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4698	Can we finally get back... I ask you to calm down and finally get back to what we're here for, and that's the bill of amendments and additions to the labour law. The word has the minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4699	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the highlight of cynicism when taking care of the people of Kosovo leads those who have put them in such a tragic position and brought them here. It's the height of demagogy and cynicism. Those who should be silent and shut up forever, because because of their false patriotism, because of their stories about the great Serbia, now these people live and fuck from the merciless to the unloved. And that's the highlight of cynicism. There's no reason for this government or for any minister to be ashamed or to run away. We're always open. May the Serbs from Kosovo come freely. I'm going to Kosovo today, I'm going to Gracanica, I'm going to Mitrovica. You and your leaders go if you dare to go to Kosovo. Let the president of the SRS take a walk in Kosovo, let the president of the SPS walk in Kosovo. You have caused such a tragic fate in Kosovo. Ladies and gentlemen, there were several weeks ago cynical stories of how many square miles of foreign occupation is within the so-called land safety zone. We said then - don't worry about it, you created a land security zone, and DOS and his government will regain sovereignty, intelligence, mind, diplomacy, talks, politics. And she did it. She did it, the democratic government of new Serbia, and we regained sovereignty in the land's security zone. After that, it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore,.... May I speak, Mr. President... This justice minister accidentally or intentionally, of course on several occasions wrote to Hans Hekerup asking to make known what happened to the missing Serbs, asking that the trials of Serbs in Kosovo should not be held in places that are ethnically clean, where Albanians, where there are no conditions for a fair trial, where neither relatives nor defenders can come, ask UNMIK to provide funds for the payment of defenders to Serbs tried in Kosovo, asking that the laws on amnesty and federal and republican application of Serbs tried and sentenced in Kosovo and Metohija. That's what we did. Yesterday I asked the question of the responsibility of Hans Hackerup and asked,.... Never mind. That's what you said about the ground safety zone. What you've done and what you've ruined to me with severe torment and great effort we'll return. You swore that when the KFOR occupation army came, you wouldn't be in such a government, so for a little money and a little power, you'd better get back to that government. Don't worry about the Serbs from Kosovo. Where you cared about the Serbian people, there is no Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4700	For what? I'll give you a replica. You asked for the government's answer. You've received a response from the government and I'm asking you to return to what we're here for. Here, I did...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4701	I didn't ask the government for an answer. I asked you to gather information and submit it to the National Assembly. The Serbian Radical Party defended Kosovo and Metohija as much as it could, as much as it had opportunities. That despite our efforts, Kosovo and Metohija are not defended...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4702	Please listen to this exhibit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4703	.... It may be a question of our historical responsibility, which we didn't have enough power here in Parliament or in the state power to defend it. But the same ones that occupied Kosovo... Please don't ring my bell, I don't mind these DOSs making noise here. [[The President's gleam reminds us of order]] That's what I'm used to. They don't know anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4704	I'm not ringing your bell, I'm ringing DOS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4705	And it responded to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4706	No, to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4707	I don't mind that, it's a common atmosphere here in the Assembly. When they don't like something, it's their only reaction. Those who occupied Kosovo and Metohija brought DOS to power in Serbia. And Party Vice-President Vladan Batic, the Democratic Party of Serbia, Rada Trajkovic, is a member of the occupation administration in Kosovo and Metohija. Yesterday, Vladan Batic refused to accept the relatives of the Serbs. That's why we asked this question to the president of the National Assembly. The head of the cabinet, Zoran Djindjic, lied that Vladan Batic is not in Belgrade, that he is on his way. It was reported by today's daily presses, and Vladan Batic sat here in the National Assembly. Vladan Batic can lie whatever comes to his mind about the Serbian Radical Party. Yesterday, the Serbian government exposed Vladan Batic. Vladan Batic has entered the Galenika with automatic rifles. The Serbian government concluded yesterday, at last, that Galenika is the property of the Republic of Serbia. Vladan Batic has to go to prison because he took "Galenik" with automatic rifles from owners, the Republic of Serbia and handed it over to criminal Milan Panic. That's a fact. And what to do now, Vladan Batic, in an powerless rage against Serbian radicals - this morning he arrested all security of the SRS, without any guilt, without anything, because, Vladan Batic, Zoran Djindjic and Dusan Mihajlovic, unable to oppose Serbian radicals, lead further their actions to my liquidation, leave the party without security, and then the gang of Vladan Batic has the task of doing the dirty work. That's the essence of DOS government. We didn't abuse anything here, we don't use the torment of these poor people. They begged me yesterday, when I left the National Assembly to ask that question here, they complained that no one in the Serbian government wanted to see them. They told us first, and today we see it in the daily press, that Zoran Djindjic's chief of staff lied, that Batic and Dusan Mihajlovic are not in Belgrade. They lied because Vladan Batic was at a session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4708	The word has Minister Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4709	I must remind the MPs that I am not the Home Secretary, the minister of police, but the minister of justice and local self-government, so I have nothing to do with the arrests. I must remind the Members of the people that everything can be proved, because clearly in Serbia the lie was an object that was bound for 50 years, and as many of us as we were telling the truth, so much God helped him. There's no need to explain anything about this yesterday. It is only the following -- that I was called by cabinet chief Zoran Djindjic, Mr Nenad Milic, between 15.15 and 15.30 p.m., when I was not in Belgrade. I came to the Assembly at 18.55, or 19.00 hours, then I entered the Assembly, and sat here in this place. We have no reason to run from. The republican government and the federal government received the relatives of the exiled Serbs on several occasions. I must tell you, since I, unfortunately, unlike some here, who abuse this pay phone, believe in God, that we, or the party I belong to, have given the rooms to the Eparchy of Rasko-prizren, in the rooms of our party, just to help those unfortunate Serbs, whom the government, in which you participated, has driven from its historical hearths. Moreover, since KFOR's arrival in Kosovo, 1,027 Serbs have been kidnapped, or missing. But before that, while you were exercising effective authority, which was responsible for the state and in that part of state territory, more than 300 Serbs were already kidnapped in Kosovo and Metohija. Who's responsible for why it hasn't been discovered? Who's to blame? Whose jurisdiction is that? Who was the minister of police and the minister of justice then? And as for any personal liquidation, or party, nothing to worry about, who in the Galennica government, will decide the arbitration court in Paris, unless local arbitration decides. Mr. Seselj, your photo with guns in your hands is famous. I never held him in my hand. And as far as the story of the liquidation, anyone's, the liquidation of the party, there's no need because you've self-exterminated yourself. The results of the elections in Montenegro are best confirmed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4710	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. (Replic)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbs in Kosovo have been kidnapped by the Cypriots, the Cypriots are allies of the NATO Pact, the perpetrators of the NATO Pact. Serbs in Serbia are persecuting DOS, Vladan Batic, Dusan Mihajlovic, Zoran Djindjic and others, and they are NATO pact allies. It is a three-way conspiracy: the NATO Pact, the Cypriot terrorists and the DOS in Serbia. I guess that makes sense to everyone. What NATO's Pact with the Shiptars is doing in Kosovo and Metohija, the DOS government is doing now in Serbia and persecution of ideological insinuators and the adoption of these tax laws and the suspension of production and the incursion of automatic rifles into the most powerful factories. That's a fact. As far as Montenegro's election is concerned, there's polarisation. This polarisation will probably bring something good, unless Vladan Batic breaks it. As for Batic’s faith in God, we have seen how sincere he believes in God. For Christmas, he glued the whole of Belgrade, on all the screens stood his picture, and his picture resembles everything but God, whether it resembles what is contrary to God, and it says approximately - Christ was born, lived Batic. Until we said so in the National Assembly, it stood throughout Belgrade. A man who believes in God in this way does not really believe in anything. He does not believe in God, in the nation, or in the country, he only believes in his wallet, believes in the money he receives from the enemies of the Serbian people to act against the country. He also got money from Milan Panic. Milan Panic was his honorary president of the Democratic Party (Minister Batic, from the post: he is now). Here, boast, what a smart man would be ashamed of, a fool is proud of, but that's what we're used to, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4712	Mr. Seselj, I beg you not to insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4713	Now, that's a folk proverb, and you, Mr. President, like folk proverbs, and you've shown it to us, right? And this is a folk proverb, I hope you don't mind. Vladan Batic took Galenika with automatic rifles. Now, the Serbian government must return the Galenika to the state, because the evidence was so convincing, perhaps the Serbian government is doing it against will, perhaps the Serbian government wanted to give it all to Milan Panic, but the evidence we published in "Serbian Free Minds" is so convincing, that the government had nowhere else to go. Now, he needs to put on the wallpaper the one who took "Gallenika" with automatic rifles from the state and gave Milan Panic, because in the last 6-7 months Milan Panic robbed "Gallenika", all his political activities paid "Gallenika" money, spent all the reserves found in drugs and raw materials. Now the Galenika is back on the beggar stick, and the federal government is making a decision to raise the drugs on average by 82%. There are a lot of important drugs, which are up to 300 percent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4714	The word has a People's MP, Mr Popovic (by the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4715	According to Article 98, the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda, and we have gone far from the agenda. We DSS MPs can talk about Kosovo here. Our three deputies are in northern Kosovo today. Where are the Cosmetic MPs of the opposition sitting here. Enough talk and demagogy, let's do some work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4716	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, in article 208, in the first part of the sentence, it is said that the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the president of the National Assembly. I would like to ask you, and I have been listening since this morning to an inappropriate relationship with the MPs of the opposition, especially the MPs of the SRS, and all sorts of government deputies, especially your parliamentary group, or your party, the DSS, who can come out to talk about anything and never mind what's on the agenda. As for MPs, where they are, all MPs from the SRS from Kosovo and Metohija live there. And unlike you, they never accepted the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Plan and were against the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija. There's something else I'd like to say to Mr. Batic, which Mr. Batic doesn't know. Before I speak to Mr Batic, I'll just point out to you the fact that what your party did for Kosovo and Metohija, is that you released a student group of Shipatarian terrorists, is that you let Fjore Brovina go, but that's why you arrest Serbs, in turn, in Serbia, and that's your only job. You have done nothing else for the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. Down there, the Shipari killed a woman yesterday or yesterday, badly wounded a man, and every day it happens, and you're playing a student group. You're letting go of the worst S.H.I.E.L.D. criminals. That's where you stand and the way you stand for the Serbian people. (President: Now, when I warn you not to stick to what you have come to answer for, I will turn out to be incorrect to you. I'll end up in another sentence. Mr Batic, in the previous Republic elections in Montenegro, we received fewer votes when there was no polarisation, and in Serbia we won the elections convincingly. You should have asked around. In Podgorica, we have had a jump of up to 500% this time, and in Serbia we have enough and 51%, and we will be very easy to get you out of power and our people will be much easier and much nicer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4718	You, of course, are neither asking for an answer nor any interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4719	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting on the replica of the MP from DOS, because he asks where are the MPs from Kosovo and Metohija All right, according to the Rules of Procedure. [[President: He did not answer the line, but according to the Rules of Procedure.]] (President: You too in the Rules of Procedure? Yes. The opposition MPs have violated the Rules of Procedure. (Lowers from the O.R.: Which member? Find a member, I don't know which one. I am the only MP from the opposition from Kosovo and Metohija. To tell you the truth, your MPs from the central section... We discussed education yesterday, about what you wanted to end in Kosovo, gentlemen, and everything you wanted to end in Kosovo and Metohija. Yesterday were deans and rectors of the University of Pristina. (President: Let's not open that topic. I'll get back to you on the subject later. About who and how he worked and what he did for the people of Kosovo, the elections showed. The people of Kosovo know best who they are and how much they advocated their interest. The elections showed, and I'm asking Mr Batic here, since he said he was going to Gracanica, when Mr Batic was in Gracanica, since he became minister? Mr. Batic, have you been to Gracanica since you were Minister? You're not. There, Mr Batic has a representative who is in the government of Hasim Thaci, whom Mr Batic wants to send to The Hague tribunal, and Mrs Rada Trajkovic sits next to him in the government. Now, should Mrs. Rada Trajkovic go to The Hague?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4720	And that was according to the Rules of Procedure? I don't know what replicas are anymore, what business are. The word has Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4721	The fact that you're sick, Mr. President, that's your personal problem. (President: This is a bigger problem. No, it's just your private problem. (President: No, that is the problem of this Parliament and this state. Well, let's change the president who won't be sick, so he better run this session. This gentleman who introduced himself to the DSS, I don't know what his name is, you have no right either, you are in DOS Mr Popovic and you created DOS. Kostunica is at the top of that pyramid. You're not getting out of all this. You can't pretend to be good to the people anymore, you're just in bad company. When I was a kid, my parents told me-- get away from bad company, you're gonna get bad. That's why I'm a Serbian radical. Never ask the Messengers of the people what they ask for in the session of the National Assembly. That's where they belong. The question is, what do your people do when they're not in the National Assembly session, do they cut down the woods to sell and to support themselves? Mr. Batic, I must speak to you, although it is very difficult for me. As a believer of the Serbian Orthodox Church, who is very sad about what is happening to the church, I have to ask you -- how come you're so trusting a man, and your party has an honorary president who belongs to the Satanic Mun sect of Scientologists? What kind of company is that, Mr. Batic? But, looking at you and your photos in Belgrade, I see Panic has found good company.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4722	I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. [[after breaks]] I ask the MPs to insert the cards to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The word is Mr. Maravić, and then the MP, Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4724	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I would ask all those present to be present in the future when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija speaking with one special respect, if nothing else because of the 120,000 remaining Serbs who have stayed in Kosovo and Metohija, because in these difficult and fateful days related to the survival of our country, all the eyes of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and not only Serbs, but also Montenegrins and other non-Albanian living, all eyes of the family of kidnapped persons, who have about 1,300 and all the eyes of the exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, who have nearly 300 thousand, are opposed to the work of this Parliament and be sure that the work of this Parliament is being monitored. The situation in Kosovo and Metohija is extremely alarming and very difficult. The pressures on those of us who remain to live in Kosovo and Metohija are daily and increasingly severe. In addition, the latest crime that took place in Pristina when not only a Serb died, but Serbia's largest civil servant in Kosovo and Metohija who worked, Police Colonel Aleksandar Petrovic. The alarming situation in the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija is particularly because UNMIK is making an unreasonable decision, a decision that is not in line with Security Council Resolution 1244 on the introduction of customs duties on the territory of the administrative border of Kosovo and Metohija with central Serbia. We still remember the introduction of customs duties in Slovenia, which preceded the takeover of border checkpoints and customs by Slovenian separatists. The people in Kosovo and Metohija are therefore looking at the state of Serbia, which is to be seen together in talks with UNMIK and KFOR consistently to implement the Security Council Resolution 1244. There is also a public concern about calming the situation in southern Serbia. However, we witness daily all that is happening in southern Serbia where Albanian extremists, as they now are now popularly called, are being shot by sniper fire and mortar fire by members of the police and members of the Yugoslav Army. I really don't understand why the expression of extremists is present, not the expression of terrorists. Is it possible that those who slaughtered and killed our enemy, burned in the Kleck of our people, could be extremists? It's simply about the blackest category of people, it's about villains who even tell terrorists sound extremely mild. Yesterday we held a session of the Education Committee and one item on the agenda was to discuss the situation and further to the University of Pristina. It is indeed my duty to know that the document that we received from the Ministry of Education states that neither of the universities of Pristina University is taking place regularly, which is absolutely not true, and that is what students who regularly go to exercises in Kruševc, Kosovo Mitrovica and other cities across Serbia are talking about. Also, in the document we received, I quote "in line with the definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, co-operation with UNMIK needs to be achieved and they should be left with the financing of all higher education institutions". I wonder if it is possible for the government of the Republic of Serbia to consider and make a proposal like this, because we need to know that both education and health were the other factor in the remnant and survival of the Serb people at the Kosovo and Metohija parish. However, thanks to the unity reached yesterday at the Committee on Education, the unity of representatives of all political parties, a decision has been made to keep the University of Pristina. Also here today, we have heard from the pay phone, asked where the other MPs from Kosovo and Metohija are. I am one of the MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, here for this pay phone, along with you. Representatives of other political parties, precisely, three of them, are now in Kosovo's Mitrovica, where they will hold talks with UNMIK representatives this afternoon about customs duties. Please, in the future, when it comes to MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, I would pray for everything from which political parties, do not ask the question of where we are MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, because it seems to me that this would contribute to the ununity of the Serb people down there, which we do not need. We MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, no matter what political party we belong to, are where we are needed. We, regardless of which political party I repeat for the second time, have been in the past two years, with our people and thanks to us and others there are 120,000 Serbs and Montenegrins left in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Finally, let me just say that today's debate and the launch of all these issues about Kosovo and Metohija also show that the topic of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija was to be found on the agenda even earlier. The Socialist Party of Serbia's MP group in the republic's parliament has filed another 12 demands. 2. In 2001, the initiative to discuss Kosovo and Metohija and southern Serbia for this assembly speaker and in this assembly. I therefore believe that this proposal should be put into the daily order of one of the burning topics, a topic which is the national interest of all of us. We do not have a second higher national interest because of this, I appeal that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, as soon as possible, is on the agenda and that the Security Council Resolution, 1244, is strictly respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4725	We have practically closed that circle, started before giving a break in which we talked about what is really not on the agenda today, and I ask you now to focus our attention on the Labour Law, which we are discussing. The word has the People's MP Marko Culibrk, followed by MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4726	The honourable MPs, the solutions proposed in the draft law amending the Labour Relations Act, are mostly conditioned by amendments to the tax code package. What is this package of tax laws, we've seen mostly because the government itself has put dozens of amendments on its own. They are said to be misrepresented, and as they will live in public, we will have the opportunity to see in some future period. Also, these solutions proposed in labour and social legislation are the narrowing of already acquired rights that workers had and will obviously bring workers, employees, into a more unfavourable position than they were before, especially when it comes to the Privatisation Act. This law, even though it's quite short, and unprofessionally written, we can look at four segments. It's an employee's income, minimum income, severance and supervision. As for earning employees and moving on to gross wages, I think that's a good thing, and so far we've had the principle, the gross salary, by dividing it into net and gross earnings, paid by the employer and the employee. We think it's more favourable for the reckoning, and for the control itself. But we've been discussing gross wages for three weeks, and no one's told us yet how much this real burden is going to be, what it's going to be, whether it's going to be 65%, whether it's going to be 70%, whether it's going to be more, whether the 3.5% tax from the profit fund is going to be in that gross salary or not, because this law needs to go into effect on June 1st, and employers still don't have the exact calculations on how to calculate, how much it's going to be a new burden. Also, there is no union organisation involved in this debate, the employer's Chamber of Commerce or the professional public. I think that we are late and here, not only to give our suggestions, but to move on to the system of payments through gross wages - and there must be changes in collective agreements, so that if from June 1st to the gross salary system, we are left with only a month to agree, employers and trade unions, on all these changes, and so far there has been no question. It would be good for the minister to propose how this procedure will be managed, which is regulated by collective agreements. Also, I think the government could have suggested that a regress for this year, but only for this year, does not enter the gross salary, because according to the government, some prosperity of the economy is expected in autumn, and mostly the regresses are paid in the summer months. It would be good if we paid that regress for the year's vacation to the workers, then what happens? Also, around minimum earnings, it has been increased and employers believe it is good to introduce that minimum profit, which has been increased, however, it is not good that it is put into another plan. The employer, if he comes into some disturbed business relations, must first pay contributions to social and pension insurance on a very high scale. I'll give you an example. For KV workers, we have to pay 5,262 dinars to the base for contributions, and we can only pay the worker 1,800 dinars. I think that under these difficult conditions, the government should still have given priority to the guaranteed payout, or to the latest, minimum profit. Also, I believe that the government should have allowed the employer to pay minimum income contributions for social and pension insurance, because if there was a business disturbance, we must first protect the employee on whom the production rests, and only then that the state will charge its own, perhaps not the same, but the next month. As for the severance, the worker is also being brought into a more unfavourable position as the number of monthly severances he has the right to receive is reduced. We can't justify it by referring to a gross salary, and there's already a few bills here, and I'm just going to remind you one more time. Let's say, now, a worker who had up to 10 years of work hours, instead of six net wages, only receives two gross salaries. If the average net salary in Serbia is now 4,000 dinars, that was 6 times 4,000, that's 24,000 dinars to the worker, and now if we move to the gross salary system, 4,000 plus 1,000 dinars of warm meal, that's 5,000 dinars and times 80%, that's somewhere around 9,000 dinars. Two times 9,000 dinars, 18,000 dinars. So the worker was initially damaged by some two average salaries. It's true this is a minimum profit bill, but the average profit bill isn't good. As far as surveillance is concerned, it's not a good thing to return some of the intelligence to the accounting and payment services or so on. SDK, to exercise such control. I think it is not in line with European legislation, because they do not know such a system of payment. We are under discussion whether payment traffic should go through business banks or through payment services. It's a question of discussion, obviously we need more accounting and payment services, but we don't need to apply some, let's say, police methods to monitor the economy, especially if we want to go to privatisation, if we're going to bring foreign strategic partners. It is also not a good suggestion that an employer who is not in a position to pay for that month's personal income or gross salary, to predict the possibility that he is not doing his basic work for as long as 90 days, since there may obviously be some abuse. It is true that if he had the funds, however, he has a member downstairs, and if he is not subject to the applicable regulations, he can be banned from working for up to 90 days. I think in this transitional time, and we are still in transition time and over the start of privatisation, we had to create conditions for an economy that has a chance to survive, to help it in some way. I resent the government for not doing anything to relieve the internal debt economy so far. We know what external debts are, but the internal debts that were mostly made in large systems, with a large number of employees, during sanctions and NATO bombings -- when we were legally obliged to pay personal incomes, not to fire workers, wives of people who were employed in the Yugoslav Army, that we had to pay 100% of the earnings, so large systems came into the situation to owe a lot of the state and from those famous 0.2% daily social tax, i.e. pension contributions, interest rates were four and five times higher than basic taxes and social and pension insurance contributions. Obviously, the state knows this well and knows what this is about, but it has no good intentions towards the economy, because it wants to be its share in the privatisation of businesses and that, later on, since it sells to strategic partners as one part of it and thereby brings large businesses, which have their own good programme, which have a market, into an unfavourable position. That's why I don't think this law should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4727	The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4728	It's just a brief replica about, it seems to me, a certain misunderstanding that took place probably because of the fact that we have a lot of billing before... ( Ambassador Seselj from the post asks how Ambassador Jovanovic got his word).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4729	He volunteered as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4730	Mr. Seselj, I'm replicating my predecessor, and I've come forward as head of the parliamentary group. (Cheeselj, from the scene, I'm just warning the president... ..... It's okay, I'm glad when I realize that you're involved in the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4731	Thanks for your help.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4732	As far as supervision is concerned, under this proposal the supervision is done by inspection services, just like the draft labour law that you defined, established and voted in 1996. Only the precise circumstances under which competent inspections can intervene and the freedoms within which they can carry out their inspection are defined are specified. In practice, we have only expanded those guaranteed rights to workers who are in the capacity to exercise their right to work and to protect who must practically monitor their working relationship, since, unfortunately, there are irregularities in every segment of society and so on during this working relationship. So there are no special deviations. The inspection services will do their job, I believe, responsibly, in accordance with the regulations that existed so far and which we have only elaborated to be adapted to the spirit of the new law. This is not contrary to trends that exist in modern societies, the European Union, nor is it contrary to what is already rooted in the economy itself. Therefore, this is further clarified, precise law of the pension authority in terms of the protection of the rights of workers and employers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4733	The word has a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4734	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, first of all I would like to thank you for giving us the opportunity to discuss the Rules of Procedure, means no time limit. It turned out to be right, because we're practically working faster, there's no warning, there's no time, there's no topic, and it works better, and there's a discussion of each law individually. As far as the Labour Relations Act is concerned, I think we should have gone to a complex new law. Here's why. First, we're going to make big changes. The system's changing. Market relations are changing. Everything changes just remains the Labour Relations Act with some dozen-fifth changes, and that can't solve that thing. Under this proposal, the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Law insists on the term of profit. Article 64 is amended as follows: "Currency referred to in Article 63 paragraph 2 of point 1) of this Act shall be determined on the basis of the cost of work carried out by an employee at the place of work at which he is assigned, (hereinafter: labour price), working hours and activities during work". I don't think the term itself fits the new spirit of time - the profit, what is it. We know there's rent in the west, labour prices in cash. We had a personal income, and in the state authorities and in the services, they're being paid. It can still be accepted, but what particularly affects and that will later be shown in practice, it is precisely this profit that now comes as a result of taxation based on gross income. Secondly, employees have the right, in Article 65, to make minimum earnings in accordance with this law. I'm sorry, I wasn't there yesterday, and there was a discussion about it. We held a session of the board. I would ask the president not to hold a committee session in the future during the assembly session because a large number of MPs happened to be on the board, so Ceda Jovanovic's parliamentary group president had to come and invite him to the assembly session for quorum. Secondly, we're not able to track, so then we repeat some things that are too high. The minimum earnings referred to in Article 1 shall be 35% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic, according to the latest published information by the competent Republic authority and so on. You see, it's particularly important here who decides when it comes to minimum income, whether it's guaranteed or minimal. We in this position of Article 66, which is amended and reads: "The decision to pay minimum earnings is made by the board of employers, on the proposal of the Director, according to the previously obtained opinion of the union" and so on. Just based on the union's opinions. If we've changed everything, we don't really have it today, not counting these unions, four or five, and we don't know who's independent and who's addicted. Our union is not yet in the interest of the working class, so it is therefore necessary for the union to have a special place in the Labour Relations Act. You know it's still normal in the west, because they're in phase two, and we're still in the battery phase, that the union has a big role, where the employer won't fire a good worker for two reasons. The first is, that worker makes him a profit, if he's good. The second is - he can't fire a good worker or not pay him as much as he earns because he has a very influential union behind him and it's hard for that employer who comes to the blacklist of a particular country's union. That's why I'm suggesting, what happened yesterday a little bit about the union, the minister is here, and he's working in the union, maybe he could help, get the union and he has to have a place under the Labour Law. The third is, after article 66, a section is added which is particularly interesting. For several days now, we have been discussing a warm meal, a regression, and many issues of taxing income that the worker will not be able to obtain. But this article clearly states that employees have the right to income, earnings within the meaning of Article 63 paragraph 3 of this Act, so it is stated - work longer than full-time, work for the day of national and religious holidays. The president predicts that we are working during the state holiday, on Friday, he will probably have to pay special compensation, night work, and Mr Jovanovic insists especially on the night work when something needs to be done, and normally what is more important, be careful how the diet is resolved. The position of the 6th member reads: "Food during labor." Take good care of yourself, eating during workdays at work. However, in the draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services, Article 9(4) reads the same thing, but does not say - diet during work, but also speaks of monthly compensation for those who receive wages. What does that mean? This means that workers, and we will tax it now, will not have a warm meal in the factory, but will have it by those who work in state authorities and public services through salaries and other forms. The worker needs this warm meal far more for a number of reasons. We know he can't actually get out of the factory circle. He has to work from 6:00 to 14:00 hours, eight hours, and that meal is his only chance to work better, to make his health look better, and that can allow him to have an employer. Now, probably, in new conditions, with these regulations and these laws, it won't be a case and the workers will really be left without it. So he only thinks of factory workers who have an organized warm meal. We keep mentioning, twenty MPs discussed a warm meal and in the presence of Minister Djelic. On one occasion, he came out of it and said that we would provide a working class with a better future, a path to Europe, if we abolish a warm meal, a regress and a field supplement. That's what the Members of Parliament tell us that we are a humble people. We're going to Europe? What a Europe, we can go straight to America, and maybe still not say where.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4735	The word has a folk MP, Bratislav Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4736	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly try to speak in the working language, and you are trying to follow me. What kind of labour law Serbian workers expect -- very simple, short and clear: clear and binding. What was in the Labour Relations Act, there was a lot -- it could, it should, but nowhere -- seas. These amendments and additions, which we consider to be a transitional solution, because we have made a request to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to the relevant ministries that we expect a very fast new law that will regulate this whole matter and we have received, in principle, the answer that it will be very soon, that this is a alignment with existing laws, i.e. amendments to the laws, which have already been these days and which will be these days. So, the workers expect further profits only in money. Payments in bags and bags are simply out of the question, for several reasons -- firstly, the largest number of workers in Serbia, because Serbia is such a country, has a country of origin, and if these workers wanted to earn profits in ports, potatoes, beans, they would never go to work in the city, they would not be educated, they would stay in the fields and make a living in beans and ports. That's the first thing. And the other thing, for all the past 10 years, believe me, I've been involved in a lot of events and I know what it's been like, there's been a lot of manipulation. You know, company executives paid workers in nature, in powder, in this, in that, at enormous prices, which they showed at the end of business, suspicious quality, and what was happening -- a large amount of these goods ended up in private stores, shops and shops of the same people, or their close friends and relatives. So the big manipulations were, about this association of free and independent unions has a lot of documentation, and very quickly, when there is finally a real change in the judiciary in this country, we're going to start proceedings against individuals, and against the institutions, and against all those who did it. I hope they will be brought to justice. So, the payoffs are in cash. The only thing that doesn't matter, though we're still tied to the dinars, we're patriots first of all, but we don't mind being in another strong currency. Workers and trade unions defend the interests of employees, not the interests of employers or employers. Therefore, all those who spoke before me, who, as far as I know, are directors or executive bodies in their institutions and businesses, and speaking on behalf of workers, simply should not do so. The workers have their own organizations, their representatives will say what they have to say. Their representatives have had a lot of contacts over the past month with both the resorient ministries and the government of the Republic of Serbia and with Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic himself, Mr Djelic, Mr Vlahovic, Mr Milovanovic and all ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on this and on many other laws, which are related to labour law. I can tell you responsibly that the unions have also supported this law and many other laws, especially the Payment Class Act, and especially that law that will be on the agenda, I hope, very quickly, on extra taxation of war and other profits over the past 10 years. Those employers who can't pay their profits, and that's a lot of words here, simply, for us, by the people of the union and the workers, they can't even be employers. So, only those who can accomplish what they need can do that. It's not an adventure and it's not a hobby, it's not a hobby, my lords. One who can't do profitable business doesn't have to deal with it, distract the people. As far as paying off in nature means in goods, we don't mind employers from extra profits, their profits, like some kind of stimulation to workers, giving in goods. So, in the end, yesterday, several speakers, after the presentation of Minister Milovanovic, mentioned some union, independence. Unfortunately, those people who were at the top of the government yesterday. The Union of Independence in this country does not exist, gentlemen, there are associations of free and independent unions, if it is thought of, and probably is, the Union of Independence does not exist, and that is proof that these people, who were at the top of the government, have never contacted the unions, never, responsibly, have ever contacted the unions. They are, however, with a man named Tomislav Banovic, who reportedly negotiated with various people from the ministry on behalf of a million and seven hundred thousand workers, but, as he negotiated, so it ended. At the very end, we support the proposed amendments to the Labour Law, with the obligation and with the proposal, with the Government's request to pass a new law as soon as possible, which will regulate absolutely this matter, to participate in the drafting of the law, means before it comes to the assembly debate, all relevant trade unions, the Union of Employers and Chambers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4737	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4738	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is how will these laws that we are making today on working relations apply to workers in Kosovo and Metohija, to workers who have lost their jobs, to those workers who are left alone and without their own personal incomes. We know that all the workers who worked in the economy, for two years, have not received any personal income and the question is, what is their fate going on? We have a large number of workers whose parent companies have been shut down and the question is whether they will work anywhere else at all, and a certain number of workers are very few years old until the end of their working age, so up to retirement. There are also a large number of workers whose parent companies were in the central part of Serbia, who were badly accepted in these companies, so they were left without personal income, because these companies had their own business and work premises in Kosovo and Metohija, and were taken from them by occupiers, so workers who worked in these companies were out of work. That is why we ask the new Minister for Labour and Labour Relations, and I think he has already received a memo from Kosovo and Metohija, to continue with minimum personal incomes, or guaranteed personal incomes, which were received until the arrival of DOS authorities, and the arrival of DOS authorities has all stopped for workers who do not work in Kosovo and Metohija. I therefore appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to form finally these resolute ministries, i.e. subcommittees, or what we call them, to establish work downstairs in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, so that the committee that functioned before the arrival of the Kosovo government continues, because today we only have the chairman of the committee, who at the moment, will not tell what it is doing, but I hope that the topic on Kosovo and Metohija will come very quickly, and we will also present all the facts -- who in Kosovo and Metohija is doing and how it worked. What Parliament Vice-President Ljubisa Marovic said, regardless of political belongings, all Serbs who remained in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, opposed the behaviour of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the federal government, and we all expect assistance only from the government of the Republic of Serbia and the federal government. What one who is down there, the occupier, gives us, prepares and works, means that we will not have a future for survival in Kosovo and Metohija. So I ask the Minister and all other ministers to determine working groups and to form working bodies that will take care of everyone, that is, those who have stayed to live down and the return of those who have been expelled. Without such an organization, we will not be able to keep those who remained in the space of Kosovo and Metohija alive, nor those who have been expelled, to return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4739	The word of the messenger of the people is Branislav Blazic. After him is the messenger of the people, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4740	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the spirit of parliamentary democratic taste, style and behavior, a man must have hearing for a different voice, so we won't be able to kill each other for what someone else thinks. It's another axiom of democracy, which each of you needs every moment to have in mind. Today, we have a draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Law. Another partial, quick and hasty to come up with certain amendments and additions, which essentially only outline the government's strategy. Everything's trying to explain by taking care of, this time, the worker. However, we do not see that real and genuine concern in it. We see only one alienation from humans and from life, since it does not conform to these cloudy times in which we live, is not in line with the real state that exists in our country. What are the workers looking for? There's always a lot of discussion here and there's a lot of talk. The workers, right now and always, are only looking for basic law, and that's the right to provide them with work. Everything in their name is done here, but they are not given the right to work. Why no one answers why production has dropped dramatically since September-October to this day, by 50%. Is there any explanation and is there the root and depth of the crisis in which we are today? Is he trying to keep threatening to have extra workers in some companies, in fact, to make one depression and social rebellion? Is there any fear of handing out books to make that depression? This explanation, which we heard yesterday from Minister Milovanovic, fits what was said to be a catastrophic story or a disastrous defense of the proposed law, as other defences were disastrous, because it all comes down to the fact that it was about 1993, about 1926 about 1945. It's all going down in some history and justice is bad, something that used to be bad. It's the vocabulary stories from the election campaigns, the learned sentences that keep repeating themselves here. Gentlemen, your agenda is yours and you need to understand that you are now the government, that you are no longer the opposition, and you are acting as an opposition. You obviously find that transition very difficult in some psychological sense, to break it in you, because for years you've learned to act aggressively destructively, and now you transfer that aggression and destruction from the position of power. In any case, it's not good, because that kind of thinking and that kind of behavior fits, in fact, in the bill of law that you're making today. It is said here that our legislation is in line with European Union legislation. It's already done. Last year, the Croatian Parliament passed a similar package of tax laws, practically prescribed, so today they have one collapse, today they have a huge number of fired workers, they have an extremely difficult situation. So now that it's being applied in order, by order, probably everyone knows whose experiment is being used in other countries, and now we're in line. What's absurd here and what's really surprising sometimes is the ways and the criminal provisions that you predict if there's a breach of the provisions of your law supplement. The penalty provision that provides for the closure of the company from 30 to 90 days is, in itself, a complete absurdity. To shut down a company for 90 days, to a criminal extent, has no effect. Who gets to that penalty? He doesn't get a state, he doesn't get a worker who works in that company, he doesn't get an employer. Is it your goal to shut down Serbian firms or to in some way, even by criminal policy, to stimulate them to work better and better? When it comes to fines, which are in your range of 1/100, I don't know if there's still such a range of fines for the same and the offence committed, so the fine is from 2,000 to 200,000 dinars, 1/100. Gentlemen, for the same offense someone will pay 2,000, someone will pay 200,000 dinars. Is that normal and who's gonna pay for 2,000? With the right to ask, if he pays 200,000, is he from another political party, or is he left to be manipulated by those who determine the penalty already doing so? So there's a lot of things here that are totally... I don't want to talk about it. The introduction of taxation on Burt income is certainly a variant that will one day come, and that is inevitable. But can this be done at this time and in these conditions? How much will it actually end the right to live in a certain number of workers who work in such companies, who otherwise cannot pay out anything to these people, but it is that way and that social valve that should give them the basic right to survive in these difficult conditions. So these are all the questions that, before coming out here with this amendment and supplementation proposal, we had to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4741	The Messenger of the people, Dejan Mihajl, has the word, and after him is the messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4742	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I may not have a lot of work, I certainly am no one's favorite dissident or favorite opposition, but I think I can talk about the Labour Law. I can talk because I know what I want. I know what I want, and that's because I just started making money for my pension and I know what's good for me. I won't, as a bunch of our fellow citizens who have worked for years and will get a pension that they don't deserve, because this country has made them poor and because one of the nakaradan authorities that ruled over the past years has done it. How did they do that? They did it by paying off guaranteed profits. The rest of the profits were paid through various vouchers, warm meals, receipts for the purchase of groceries and wardrobes. When our citizen finished his work life and came to collect his pension, he was very surprised. His pension was very small. He was wondering why. Because his pension tax base was small and because he had been deluded for years into getting something more, and he was getting less, because he was getting certificates for which he supplied that did not enter the pension base. Is that what our citizens want, and is that what we promised them? Of course not, gentlemen. What's good for citizens and what's good for all the employees in Serbia, that's gross earnings. Why is that good? Because all contributions are accounted for in profit, because it is and such a profit, which will be far greater than this, the pension base. Pensions will thus be bigger and our citizens will live better in their old age, so that they will no longer be spoken - who can still live on pension, but the citizens will want to retire so that after their working age they can rest, visit spas, go on excursions and afford a series of pleasures to their grandchildren, which they are now unable to do, because this government has made them poor. (A voice from the O.R.: This current government? Of course, we understand that this is the previous government, sir. I'm very sorry that this pay phone during these days and during these sessions and sessions is more about bringing out false, malicious insinuations, I can say insult. There are many things that have been said and most of what is not relevant to the subject that we are talking about. I can understand that, and I understand that, because that's what the people who brought this country to where it is, that these citizens and the working class, even though they represented themselves, they brought the avant-garde working class and its part, where they are. We have empty working halls and we have citizens who get guaranteed profits, we have a condition that instead of having four employees support a pensioner, we now have the relationship of two pensioners to one employee. You have brought the citizens of Serbia to a begging stick and they need you to speak and claim these days and thus obstruct the work of this Parliament, that some others are guilty of it. Gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia know very well, and they knew very well on October 5th and December 23rd that there will be a future. We from the Democratic Party of Serbia have never said that change will be quick and easy. After 50 years, and especially the last 10 years of a country's sunflower, we can't say how in two or three months everything can be fixed. Since these days there are very popular folk proverbs in the National Assembly, I'm going to say, what's crazy spoiling what smart people can't fix. Maybe our predecessors weren't crazy, but they acted like one. They were acting crazy and frenzy and what they were doing, and we see how they did, and we see where they got us. They brought and impoverished citizens and brought them into a great social uncertainty, so they could manipulate them more easily, take them to various openings of bridges and to various gatherings and to a secretary to make themselves a political promotion. Ladies and gentlemen, with these trends, it stopped long ago, and it finally ended on December 23rd. This power will never do that. We were elected by the citizens because we said we'd change. Ladies and gentlemen, we're changing for the better, of course. We don't ask for 50 years, we don't ask for 10 years, we're looking for a little goodwill and patience so we'll get better tomorrow and the day after.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4743	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out the following: The draft labour law proposed is contrary to the federal law on basic labour rights. In addition to this bill, it is contrary to the federal constitution and other federal laws. The Republic of Serbia did not agree either with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or with a number of other laws, which should have been done before the law was passed. So I have to tell you that this harshly violates the federal constitution and other federal laws in this area. Instead of improving and simplifying the conditions for establishing a working relationship, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making the labour law much worse for the workers for whom the need has ceased, i.e. after their work. In Article 1st ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for this law, in the first indent of the first indent of 1st to 4th, is drastically reduced by the percentages of the severance determined by the collective agreement. Namely, from six to ten times and up to ten years of internships and 30 years of standing under the government's proposal, these percentages are reduced to a double amount to ten years of internship and to a five-fold amount of over 30 years of insurance. In no word does the legislator refer to improving the working conditions of workers, working hours, vacations and absences, protecting the rights of employees, protecting women, youth, and especially disabled workers of all categories of disability. The proposer only changes the provisions relating to earnings, fees and other receipts, and all the damages to workers and employers. It is obvious that the promoter is not interested in the material position of employees and employers, but is the only goal he has of filling the budget with the biggest intervention from the economy. That the applicant is not interested in the protection of employees' rights is the least visible in Article 6. A bill of this law. I will quote this member to you ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament: "Employees have the right to make minimum earnings in accordance with this law. "What does that mean? The minimum earnings referred to in Article 1 shall be 35% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic. According to the latest published data by the Republic's statistical authority, a serious question is raised here what when workers are concerned or minimum earnings, as it is impossible to provide material and social security of workers with 35 per cent of the average earnings in Serbia's economy. As a newspaper, Serbia's government introduces new labour commitments longer than full-time, to work on the day of national and religious holidays, to night work, on time spent in the working relationship, i.e. on past work, on work-time work, on eating during work, on the regress for the use of annual holidays, on the use of work and on the stay of workers on the ground. Which is a lot. Was it an excuse to tax a warm meal, work on shifts, work on days of state and religious holidays, and also a regression for the use of annual holidays, night work and others? I believe the government has decided in this way to provide funds for the budget, which I think is the wrong way. In my opinion, the government was to encourage the process of production in the first place, so that the process of production would produce a product, sell it on the market and collect taxes from it, and the tax would be proportionally and at certain rates to go into the budget. Since it is a system law, the proposer has taken over all rights from making the proposal, and the draft law was not attended by competent relevant entities in society, and above all by trade unions, nor by employers, but at the same time not consulted, nor by the opinion of the Constitutional Court of our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with your permission, if I may, I'd just like to say in the end a few words about southern Serbia. The situation in the south of Serbia is very dramatic, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia are very threatened. I'm sorry that we see reports in the evening on television, and in those reports, and in those pictures we see mosques in the first plan, but we don't see the Roast Patriarchy, we don't see the Decans, we don't see Gracanica. Ladies and gentlemen, I will apologize to you, but I would return if you would allow me, I would like to ask Mr. President, when it comes to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, of Rule 208. I haven't heard from you before, but let me just have two three sentences. In Article 208. "The MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. "In Article 207, only one more sentence - the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions needed to perform the function of the MP. Let the Members of the People's Parliament, that you are first of all representatives of the people here, all elected in one quite way, to say democratically and in any case, the MP has the right to ask the Government and other bodies for information and information so that he can represent the citizens and give the citizens notice when he is on the ground, so that he can respond in the same way to the people and voters. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, something I'm noticing, and believe me, it's not understandable, some journalists ask me this morning -- what are so many security workers doing in the Republika Srpska Assembly? There's one impression that's unnecessary...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4745	Will you go back to the topic, you went to Kosovo, and to the Rules of Procedure, and now you're going to security, I don't think I understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4746	Just one more sentence, because it concerns Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4747	I wanted to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4748	... Where are the people's representatives sitting? I'd just ask - that it creates one unnecessary impression. Here they sit, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as representatives of the people, are not terrorists here, and here we don't need so much security to create a picture as if something were going to happen here. There's no need for that and so much security. I think it is necessary to determine how many security workers should sit in the building of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, that one unnecessary impression is not created, that there is an unbearable atmosphere here. I think this is...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4749	Mr. Jojić...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4750	I think this is a congregation in which you should and be tolerated, you shouldn't speak in hate words, and you don't have to do something that absolutely doesn't need...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4751	I agree, Mr. Jojic, but I don't think that's the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4752	Thank you very much for your patience. I apologize if I've been a little more extensive than I should have.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4753	Mr. Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, and the next one reported for the discussion is MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4754	Dear People's MPs, we have before us a package of legislative solutions from the field of labour legislation, i.e. amendments and additions to existing legal solutions. The tax package adopted by the congregation's majority for the consequences had a alignment of labour and social legislation with it. Bad solutions, even extremely bad solutions in a package of tax laws, have, of course, caused bad solutions in this package of laws. We have before us amendments and additions to the Labour Law. These changes and additions are extremely restrictive, I repeat, extremely restrictive by the rights of employees. This restriction is examined, above all, in the part of the law where the employer's obligation to pay off the severance of the worker whose employment relationship ends. In the existing legal solution, this amount ranged from six to twelve times the net salary of an employee, and now the new DOS government is proposing to reduce and establish that amount, ranging from two to five times the amount of earnings. Unbelievable. That poor and unnatural government that the people did not trust in the previous elections provided workers who lost their jobs from 6 to 12 salaries, and this new one - transparent and pro-European one, reduced the amount to two to six salaries. The minister's inexplicable explanation that it's a so-called gross profit, he just doesn't drink water. What exactly is this about? You know what this is all about, we all know that this new, transparent and pro-European government is preparing a new concept of property transformation. According to media information and announcements by Minister Vlahovic, the concept will be very simple and efficient. The employees of Serbia will get between 20% and 30%, still talking about it, from the estimated value of social capital, and the rest will be sold directly on the market by the transparent government. That sale will be definitely done brutally and quickly. The direct consequence of such an act will be mass layoffs of workers, so-called technological surpluses. Be careful, the new owners of the company will certainly not hold any extra workers in the company. It's a cruel economic logic and a cruel economic reality. It's something that's gonna happen. By the way, many companies will be bought, only because of the Serbian market and will be shut down immediately, so all workers are going to the street. It's a cruel economic logic. We have examples in neighbouring countries, from Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, that some company, whether domestic or foreign, buys a company from the manufacturer of certain goods, simply closes and provides a passage for its goods. Now we come for the real reason of this legal solution. These new owners of Serbian businesses should be allowed to have as little cost as possible when firing a technological surplus.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4755	Mr. Veljkovic, please return to the law, there will be opportunities when there is a privatisation law on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4756	So, what am I talking about? You really don't understand anything. So, these new owners of Serbian businesses should be allowed to have as little cost as possible when firing a technological surplus. They should pay these people less. That would be kind of acceptable, they should pay less for those people who are fired from work, and the government is just setting them up for it. So you're going to pay between two and five salaries, not between six and 12 salaries. That's the real reason. And that would somehow be acceptable, from the point of view of attracting capital to our economy, that this government has any kind of social programme. That army of people who are out of work, someone has to accept it, someone has to shock that big social coup, and that's why the state exists, among other things, to take care of its population. Do you, gentlemen of the government, have you, Mr. Minister, prepared a social programme for such a fissure that is imminent, definitely inescapable. I'm sure you don't. And in the end, you know what's most interesting? All of this is suggested by a minister who was until recently president of the Union, as he said his name was the Association of Independent Unions. As union president, he became a minister, and his deputy, he became an MP, this Djuric, as he is already called, within the DOS parliamentary group. Now this deputy of his who is an MP in this House has become president of the same union. So, the Association of Independent Unions. Now these two men who, by the nature of their work, need to take care of workers' rights, propose and adopt something like this. The minister suggests, and the MP adopts a solution like this. One former union president, and one current president of the same union. I would ask these RTS people, who film this assembly, when it's voted on this bill, to record how the MP, President of the Union, is going to vote for history to record how they're going to get the voter's bill, means that the severance from six to 12 months' wages is reduced to two to five salaries, and to see his people, whose president he is. I think this must be a precedent in the world union movement. If something like this had happened in any European country or in America, if the union president had bought executive power and appointed him as a minister, or if the union president had bought one political group and chosen him as an MP, it would have caused real shock anywhere in Europe or in America. Especially in America, I think the American trade unions would just eat them. They shouldn't even go out on the street. It's from a moral point of view unimaginable, gentlemen. The state is one of the biggest employers. It currently employs about 460,000 people in Serbia. The union's job is to negotiate with the state about labour rights. Now this MP, the union president, will negotiate with the minister, the former union president. Think from a moral point of view of what that looks like. That, you'll agree with me, is the world precedent. Only DOS can do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4757	The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4758	A whole group has been called. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you understand nothing of the radicals. Your argument is either we didn't know, or, or they didn't give it to us. These are the only two arguments that explain the effects of your participation in the republican government from 1998 to 5 October 2000. We didn't know, we had no idea, or -- we were looking for it, but they wouldn't let us. The guaranteed profit, Mr Veljkovic, is prescribed by the government's decision of the Republic of Serbia and amounts to over 200 dinars. You prescribed it among other things and your consent to enforce such a law. The minimum earnings under this bill are 35% of the average earnings on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, meaning 35% of the earnings of 4,500 dinars at the moment. Multiply 12 or 6 times 200 dinars, and multiply 6 times 35% of 4,500 dinars, you'll see the difference. And as for morality, don't let us keep going back to the papers that were left behind. Don't keep reminding you how much morals there are in it when the Red Flag is being seduced by the SRS. Mr. Veljkovic, by decision of the Management Board of the "Red Flag" Institute, which is your party's vice-president, the SRS paid off its SRS funds on 19 May last year for a donation to the Serbian Radical Party. The hungry mouth of the Red Flag Institute has been detaching funds for you. Is that what morals are for? Let's get back to facts. Let's go back to our arguments. The guaranteed profit is 200 dinars, the minimum profit is 35% of the average at the level of the Republic, which is much more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4759	Wait, you can't... Right to the replica... All right, according to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask you the next time you give your word to the Honorable Chairman to explain to the MPs on what basis you give the floor. Is because of the replica, do you...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4761	You called in a replica, and then you...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4762	I'm not talking about my case. I'm talking about the previous case. I'm talking about informing the MPs in the National Assembly. Of course, I will not yell or hysterize in the National Assembly as Mr Jovanovic did. I don't think I'm screaming to make an argument. I'm not a man who would use political facts like that, but I have a few things to tell you when he's already talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4763	You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. You've got your word on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4764	I've pointed you out to the Rules of Procedure, and I'm just gonna finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4765	Then you must specify a member. To what provision of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4766	To Article 96. Take a good look at him and you'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4767	It means that the president of the parliamentary group has the right to replicate if... And you're not...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4768	Or a representative of the parliamentary group, and I'm a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4769	No representative, no president, no deputy, Mr. Wolfie, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4770	Mr Jovanovic forgot, I will immediately, do not be nervous, to say that 117,000 has been transferred to the expense of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the cures from Galenika, which he received in the papers. That's what they forget. They forget what they've done, and I have a line to Mr. Veljkovic, says RTS is broadcasting something, or to publish something. Everything they say is a lie. Last night they interrupt the programme because Dragoljub Milanovic was released, but they love their programme most in the world when Javier Solana comes to them, they love their programme when they let Djakovic's group go free. That's when they applaud. Then they won't interrupt the program, they don't think of it. Don't talk about how much better things are. From that period alone, 150 percent have jumped prices to little, and you're talking about amounts. All 5% of the people received guaranteed profits. Over 300 companies were exempt from tax and contribution payments. You'll talk about it. And who lives at 35% of the average net profit in the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4771	This was the word of MP Vukic in the Rules of Procedure, right to replica.... It's in the Rules of Procedure. He has the word Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4772	Mr. Ceda Jovanovic absolutely does not understand this law or understand the problem he is talking about. Now listen to me, like this, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic came out here and talked about some minimum personal earnings. Nice in the law in the previous solution says that it is the average personal income that the worker made during the previous period. He was talking about some minimal incomes. He did not answer here why this government reduced the amount of severance from two to five months' wages, and the previous government had it from 6 to 12 salaries. He absolutely didn't answer. As for morality and the "Red Flag" you read that two days ago, representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia were in Kragujevac negotiating all night with the unions. All the media with astonishment described that Minister Vlahovic ate and drank 28 thousand dinars, 800 marks a man drank. When we talk about it, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic doesn't mention it. When we talk about morality, Mr. Cedo Jovanovic, come out before this Assembly, look at the first building to the Assembly where the board of the Ministry of its own transformation stands. Minister Vlahovic moved his private company into that building. It's the board of a private firm. When you talk about it, when you talk about morality, go out and look at it. Last time I said that the Belgrade charter is saying that Mr. Vlahovic's private firm will assess the social capital in this country and it is proof that this board is standing on the ministry building of its own transformation. So, the stranger who comes and cares about one company, it's going to be on this principle -- I estimate, I'm agreeing on how much I'm going to sell you. Tell Mr. Jovanovic about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4773	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Cedomir Jovanovic, and then the MP is Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4774	It concerns a member of the 96th and a representative of the SRS who, according to this Rules of Procedure, does not have the right to do such a thing. He tried to be a stand-up and the public is a witness to the complexity he displayed. So, Article 96 says if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, that is to a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group on behalf of the repatriation group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. I used it rightly, and on behalf of the parliamentary group, denied everything that the SRS MP said about this pay phone. I would like him to deputise, on the basis of facts, the review of the funds transferred under the grant and sponsorship contract from January 1st to October 20th of last year, under which the Serbian Radical Party received 127,600 dinars from the Red Flag Institute. The funds were paid on 19 May last year and the decision was made on 22 May last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4775	Only for the sake of truth, the Democratic Party of Serbia has not received money from Galenika. (Employer Vucic requests word)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4776	Please, by what, how are you looking for a word? (Employee Vukic, from the place: So you're afraid of answers). Really, believe me, I didn't hear. We can look at the notes, I didn't hear him talking to you. We'll look at the notes tomorrow, I'm not afraid of the answer, I can check it out, but I really didn't hear him talking to you. The word has a minister, Mr. Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4777	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, seems to have to hold a brief course in the Assembly on union organisation and trade union action, since the SRS gentlemen obviously have a problem with the lack of information as a consequence of ten years of sanctions and their inability to go out into the world. The issue is constantly underlining how I, as president, i.e. former president of the Association of Free and Independent Unions, became Minister for Labour and Employment. You know, gentlemen, this is no unusual practice in world union circles at all. I can inform you that the Minister for Labour in the Federal Republic of Germany, former vice president of the world's largest metal union, can inform you that the current minister for work in neighbouring Romania is the former union president, and that I do not list that practice for you. I can also tell you what you probably know, that in the government where you were before me, the Minister of Labour was Tomislav Milenkovic, former president of the Union of Serbia, and you know very well that this Mr. Milenkovic (I mentioned yesterday) had enormous funds from the solidarity logs and that he used that money by helping his party, and in part allowed his deputy, your member, to spend enormously those funds, which were collected by workers. But when I came out to talk about this subject, about these laws, and about your concern for workers, how workers will be damaged by severance, to inform you that in the period from 1991 to 2000, bankruptcy was opened in 41,854 enterprises, and that 13,289 companies, in which around 600,000 workers were employed, were liquidated. Now, dear MPs, your concern has been for the past 10 years. With these laws, this minimum profit, which is constantly mentioned, we protect these workers. And as for severance, if you want to count, you will find that, when the gross system is applied, that relationship remains the same. But another thing you keep forgetting to say -- workers who are jobless go to the labour market, and in the next two years they get a minimum of 50% of the average earnings in the Republic, and it can go up to 100%, depending on how much their company has been paying for employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4778	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4779	I'll explain, don't be impatient, which is why I'm talking. In fact, I asked the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this morning not to allow the chairman, whether he or someone else, to have different arches to those who speak, depending on whether they are from the regime, or whether they are from the opposition. This, of course, did not happen, and we heard here, without any warning, the Minister of the Republic of Serbia, as he calls the MPs ignorant, as he calls them ignorant, as he tells them they could not go to the inside. I, Mr. Minister, have lived in that beautiful and magnificent West of yours, stayed there for a long time, certainly more than you do, and I know these things much better than you do, and I ask you, Mr. Minister, which school did you finish, when you teach us and pronounce us ignorant? What school did you finish? Come out, tell these people, these citizens? You want me to tell you what I finished - I'm done from primary school, high school, law school, all with the highest success. What school you've finished, go out, tell the people you've finished school, see who's ignorant, who's telling the truth, and so on. You're talking about the funds, you were talking about that money yesterday. Well, you spend three times as much money in Brussels for one trip as you mentioned. Three times as much money you spend for one trip anywhere... than something like that happens, and then you're able to pass it on to us. And every time someone tells you, you're going to find an example, and then you're going to say - and I can keep on talking about comparatively-legal political practice. But these unions are not called independence, as you were called independence and as your deputy was called, is still called, the union's representative of independence. What kind of union is independence, represented by members of the government, representing members of the ruling majority in the National Assembly? Well, I guess that's a fundamental contradiction. It seems to me to be the worst possible hypocrisy. If that's not the case, come out and explain to us how it isn't. Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm just saying, since Popovic said it wasn't true -- he'll get the paper here this afternoon, so he'll make sure everyone's correct about the claims I made.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4780	Did I refrain from reminding you of the violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part evenly compared to the MPs of the majority? You objected to me to react differently to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the parliamentary majority, and different from the MPs of the opposition. Did I even this one out because I didn't warn you that you broke the Rules of Procedure? One: one. Thank you. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not been persuaded here by a DOS representative in knowledge of this issue, which is on the agenda, above all because he confirmed his suspicions, or claims from yesterday, that he was a repeater. He's still acting like this, he doesn't listen to any smart proposals, simply, some political wings and passwords accusing the SRS of everything and everything, without any arguments or evidence. However, I would not like to enter the controversy about these verbal political problems, I would like to talk about the laws, about the agenda, and therefore I will just say that, speaking of the amendment law and additions to the Labour Relations Act, it has to be closely linked to all the legal packages that have been passed at previous sessions, therefore, to the tax system laws. We are witnessing that this DOS expert government has continued to propose repressive laws in Serbia. So far, legal packages, which Minister Djelic called a reform of the tax system, have been slowly, but certainly have been fuelled by Serbian citizens. The attack will also continue with other laws, which are on the agenda, which are mainly legislative laws, which should in fact only end the citizens of Serbia and all workers who are employed, or who are not employed. Here, Minister Djelic told us that Serbian citizens, minors, are singing out of joy and happiness that the DOS majority here has imposed on them. But truth be told, the people are becoming more difficult and harder to live for because of these imposed taxes, and Minister Djelic, hunger, misery and crying for the people is like tears of joy. That's what he said yesterday at the pay phone. I am increasingly convinced that Minister Djelic is indeed an expert, because yesterday he managed to move the majority of the DOS parliamentary group. I have another proof that he's an expert, which is that he managed to ride a cannonball and aerate in Serbia, passing on famous stories, selling fog. Who can trust such a minister who rides a cannonball? The proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Law is the work of another expert -- Minister Milovanovic. The minister also showed his expertise in present-day exposure and, arguing for workers' rights, showed how much he cares about workers by passing such a bill that SRS MPs explained by trying to convince the minister, or unionist, to give up his intention. Now I don't even know what quality Minister Milovanovic is here. It's possible, and you ask yourself that it's not a Trojan horse by accident, so it probably doesn't want to destroy DOS power. Because the union is not a legislative body, so there is a possibility. That's why you're asking yourself. That doesn't interest me very much. (loud from the O.R.): What are you banging? ) The fact that it beats DOS's majority, and now they've confirmed it by suggesting that I'm just saying it, is, in fact, in accordance with this law that the minister is trying to display as an end to the gray economy. The grey economy for him is a warm meal and everything workers have used so far to survive. With this labour law, the government is tasked, in my opinion, to create chaos in Serbia. Why? Mr. President, please give these fourth-row, this women's line, some of them, because I'm going to have to say what they've done to keep the workers out of work. There are people here. Therefore, it is suggested that a large number of workers should be fired. It's a newspaper in this law. The main thing is that this law will legalise that, in fact, the fog should become a law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia - the Labour Relations Act. Instead of having the government start production, to make sure that they make promises in the pre-election campaign and to tell the people in which the business branch, in which the production segments invested those 6 billion dinars received from their masters, they close the production plants, workers go home with severances that were drastically reduced from the previous law. Many factories, the flag, the Galenika, including the Zastava Special Cars factory in Sombor, have been closed, but you do not want to look the truth into the eyes. By October 5, 2000, she had worked successfully, produced and exported these cars, and since 5 October, the locks and workers were sent home. Minister, check it out, you'll see. You can leave in an hour and a half, because you have a faster car, and I need three hours. This law also provides for high penalties for employers who do not pay salaries in time. What's the consequences of them coming forward, that's not what the promoter cares about. It is important that the law be implemented to the end, that the government show its strength, arrogance and power, and that employers, unless they are able to pay off those minimum earnings, close down the factories, and the workers go, as the minister says, to wait two years, twenty or maybe for the rest of their lives. You never know when those workers will get back to work. Also, repressive measures have begun by this government by starting to arrest workers, political insolents, and this happened yesterday, or last night, so that three SRS security workers were arrested, in apartments. What you're clapping, you can tap the moment you go to your folks' raids where those three are now. The DOS goal is to remove all obstacles to the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and to liquidate him, because the president of the SRS, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, is not only teaching you, not only to provide you with useful advice and sermons, but is also the stability of Serbia and the SRJ. That's exactly what bothers you, because you're paid to sell this country and that's why you won't succeed, because the MPs of the SRS and the citizens of Serbia, who are slowly seeing who you are and what you are, will not allow you to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4782	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4783	Please, before I speak, let us determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4784	Please confirm the quorum. Please, if you're already looking for a quorum then let's agree to actually apply the Rules of Procedure or of course you don't have to give the quorum, but get out of the O.R., we'll determine if there is or no quorum, if you already object. You are right that most should provide quorum, but you are wrong to sit in the hall and you are physically present, and you do not want to participate in the work. I'm asking the Service to count. There's something wrong with the electronic system or with the MPs. The same goes for the lines on my left. If you're working, get your cards in, and if you don't work, get out of the O.R. Mr. Vukurovich, are you present or absent? We've got a quorum and we can keep working. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another one in a series of reform laws. This time it is not a new law, but a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act. This is why this and the other laws are reformable. That must be said for Serbian citizens who really believe that there are some reform moves in this, which we have been discussing for days. They're reformed primarily because 98% are prescribed. And not according to the Western model so we might expect. Reform laws are prescribed to date by applicable laws. The 2% difference is the change in the figures, which increases the interventions from both economic operators and individuals and reduces the provision of budget funds to users. The budget budget is reformable because it is 100% overwritten and 300% increased. There would be no need to pass this law which is more realistically unfavourable both for employees and for those who will very nearly remain unemployed and for employers to have happened or not have happened a few things. First, that there have been donations that you agreed were about to arrive at the country at least four annual budgets, without separation and one single dinar by taxpayers. Secondly, if it hadn't been for hiding at least 50 billion dinars of excise income and only from imports that were at last year's level. The 50 billion dinars represent the government of the Republic of Serbia's black fund. If not for another disastrous move as a by-product of the famous monopoly regulation on the sale of oil and oil derivatives, which is the transfer to the Croatian budget of $30m, and as I said earlier, a direct damage to the 15m-euro budget of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday in this congregation, we talked about everything and everything, including children. I'm really sorry that my seven-year-old son can't come here to argue with the minister, because we're obviously too professional for him. This reform law could only be good in one case, and that is if all workers in this country received minimum or guaranteed earnings, so the amount of workers who had lost their jobs would at least be higher. We have not heard Mr. Minister how many people in Serbia receive this kind of profit and how many people in Serbia will make this law happy. You predict closing down a company that doesn't pay off profits and you say we can't read. We can read very well, but you can't think economically or practically. Look at the stenogram from yesterday's session, and you'll see that you're still the opposition. You defend the law, and you attack the authority that criticises the law. Not the opposition, but the government. The laws are not defended by giving an incendiary political speech but by arguments. Here's what can happen to you when your inspector comes to close down a company that hasn't paid off its profits, and there's money in the account. The employer has, say, a million dinars in his account, and he needs 500,000 dinars for his profits, and he doesn't pay them, and the inspector forbids him to work. Right? Well, it's not like that. Ten days before that deadline, the employer bought the goods before the payout deadline and issued a payment security agent, a check, a note, an accept warrant of a million dinars. He's got money in his account, if he doesn't pay him off, his company closes him down, and if he pays him off, it's a felony, for example, a release waiting without cover. And previous laws, and even sublegal acts, had some not very happy solutions. You should have changed these things in previous laws, entered into the core and essence of the law, and not engaged in accounting operations to get a figure that would be enough for a man to buy half a consumer basket and wait for someone 35 years of employment to hire him at a time when thousands of young people in Serbia are walking the streets without a job. This law is more transparent than the others, because it shows the obvious intention of the authorities to sell out everything worth selling out in this country, to fire the workers, and that it costs very little, to give them some church girl and send them to the street. Very transparent, or very transparent. The only thing that's been transparent in this Serbia since you came to power is the bills of Serbian citizens. You need to agree on a statement. One minister says -- with investments in the economy and with the start of production starting in May, others say in September, and the third says from three to five to seven years, as if you will welcome September in power. There is no term of association in the union movement. The union term is UNMIK. Union terms are related to the term UNMIK, that's what they're called. The fact that you're an association, that's another proof that you have nothing to do with workers and their interests. You are the DOS association here, by entering power, but you have become the same abbreviations, the ASNS, but that means - the Association for the Creation of Unemployed Serbs. You won't take a picture next to the buildings, because in order to take a picture next to them, you have to build it first. You can only take pictures of yourself next to collapsed and burning objects, because ever since you came to power, you're just tearing down, and even more funny, you're complaining that you don't have enough money because you're going to tear down a little bit of what's left.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4786	According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4787	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of the 80s and 113s are in circulation, talking about the use of the electronic system. We were witnesses to a proposal just now, a national MP, to determine the quorum using the electronic system. We have approached the founding of the quorum, we have determined that the quorum has, after which the MP continued to expose. The problem is that a small mistake was made in the wish of the People's MP. Namely, the MP who asked for the quorum wasn't in the O.R. and it's not the first time something like this has happened. Three opposition groups here are constantly making trouble with the quorum, to teach us how to waste time. I will bring you a parallel analysis of where it shows, i.e. which shows how many times the MP has been in the hall, when determining the quorum, some MP groups have more, and some fewer, some of them use exit tactics when determining the quorum by counting, and others, normally according to the Rules of Procedure, still insert their cards when they get to count and that's fine. Please, Mr. President, respect article 80. A Rules of Procedure which says, "The quorum is determined by the application of the electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting identification cards into the MP's unit." Please, I'm not going to ask for a vote on article 113, where you could give some warning and some measure, because there's no particular problem for that, just ask that in future, when giving words to the MPs, you make sure that the MP to whom you're giving your word is in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4788	We've already discussed this a few times and you're right, and you're not, what to do. There's a word for Mr. Jovanovic. It was a replica, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4789	Mr. Vukurovic, if you don't know, you should learn, even if the names of the Syndicate, that's when you were in power you didn't know, that's why you're no longer in power. I don't comment on the name of your party, as it is called. It is called the Serbian Radical Party, God forbid it has something to do with a radical party, and it certainly has nothing to do with Serbia, because the principle of the party is not a Serb, and as far as I can see, there are not many Serbs among you. Please take care of yourself, take care of your party and don't think about the unions. Think about the law, about extra taxation that will come in a few weeks and you, and a lot of your party members, will come under attack, you'll pay a lot, and some of you will go to jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4790	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4791	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we have heard an incredible speech from a man, don't wave your hands, you've threatened enough from this pay phone. You scare me, you don't scare me, you don't scare me, you don't scare me, you don't scare me. You don't scare me. You don't scare me. You don't scare me. Everything you've been saying, you've been telling the worst possible lies. I'm surprised, Mr. President, that you didn't react, this was about the worst possible insults. I'm a sir, I don't even know your name, I know you've been hanging around the unions, so now you're in power, I'm Alexander Vukic, the father of a Serb and the mother of a Serbian woman. And everyone else here in the Serbian Radical Party, and you have not seen from the heart because NATO's pact has brought you to power, the NATO Pact has given you money to run these trade unions then, as it has now given you money to hold NATO power in Serbia. That's the fundamental difference between you and me. I would like to say one more thing, since I said I would bring the document, I will bring the document and I am not showing you this document because I think the Democratic Party of Serbia will support 165,000 dinars. This is the facsimile of the documents, of the 165,000 dinars I do not think it will be supported, that what was obtained from Galenika, I will read to you, like this - the applicant of the request is Slavica Radovic, certain, it was done on 23.01.2001, Galenika AD - selling medicines, payment conditions - approval. Note -- humanitarian aid for the Democratic Party of Serbia following the approval of Mr Milan Panic. So that's about it, that's about those stories. I would never tell you this either, but I'm telling you not to dirty people, that you don't think that's the simplest thing and that's the most important thing that can happen, but to take care of what you said yourself. I would especially ask you to keep this sort of thing, the way the predecessor used to put it, that you no longer allow it, Mr. President, because he won't teach me what I am at birth, or what my child is, or anyone else. Vojislav Seselj, the one you're talking about, is a Serb. He baptized my son in the Church of Alexander Nevsky, and you will tell me who he is and what he is, you who have never crossed, who do not know what the Church is, nor do you know what the heart is. So when you get baptized like that, you show what kind of a believer you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4792	You'll all get the word, let me just say it. Don't mind me not reacting to who's Serbian and who's not Serbian, I don't really keep a record of it, and you who run it, go ahead here, and fight for free. I don't really keep that record. According to the Rules of Procedure, if according to the Rules of Procedure - Mr. Prophetović, Mr. Mircic, then the replica, one has been reported for the time being, and so it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4793	According to the Rules of Procedure, members of 98 and 99 were violated. Mr. Wolfie, I just said it. The Democratic Party of Serbia's harsh lies have been made. We are prepared, if tomorrow morning, in the legal form and by procedure ordered by the Rules of Procedure, to propose the formation of the Committee of Auditors to determine all these things you have spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4794	Slowly, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mircic. Let's apply to all those who have the Rules of Procedure, use and abuse the pay phone, and then go to the replicas, and then to the legal proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4795	There are serious threats from this pay phone here, Mr. President, and I don't think it's appropriate for you to joke about it that way. First, according to Article 99, which says that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. My dear colleague... Wait a minute. My dear colleagues, I see no reason why you are so blinded by hatred, which is why you are disappointed, in this assembly or in this corporation of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, to present such hatred and such threats. We're not afraid of Serbian radicals, especially like you. Secondly, if you think that this will offend you to the Serbian working party...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4796	Mr. Mircic, you are now entering the polemic. Please, you've made a point...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4797	Now I'm explaining what a colleague has done to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4798	Well, they said what they said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4799	Because you say that in the Serbian Radical Party not all Serbs are. It's a compliment to the Serbian Radical Party. We have members, a large number of members, who are not members of the Serb people, and we are proud. There are also members of national minorities, Hungarians, members of other peoples, and that is commendation. If you point that out as your quality, then it's not a favourable quality for you to be made human. 'Cause, like, you don't look alike.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4800	According to the Rules of Procedure, anyone else? No one's asking for an answer, that's interesting. Replica, Mr. Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4801	However, I don't even have to know what all these unions of yours are called but I am obliged to know that you serve here to break up Serbian workers. The fact that you're threatening prison and extra-profit law, I'm offering you from this pay phone here all my mobile and immovable property for yours. Absolutely, and not just to you, but to all of you here. To trade, you too, Srjo Popovic. Right now, I'm ready to trade all my assets with you. The only tax I can pay this country is cell phone tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4802	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4803	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to leave the rodeos for another occasion, where, in advance, I do not wish to participate. I apologize on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group to those who have felt hurt by the appearance of the MPs who make up our parliamentary group. I have a lot of understanding for him since he was exposed to completely unargumented, unpolitical and quite certain and incorrect criticism. We are not the ones who will read among you your national or some ethnicity and the Assembly is not the place where it is done, nor should Serbia be a society in which people will be divided on such principles. I answered my word to point out the already wrong interpretation of the bill we're trying to discuss here. It is about the case Mr. Vučurovic mentioned by analysing the alleged absorption of this law and the practical inability of its application, in a situation where the competent inspection body finds that workers have not been paid minimum earnings, that there are funds in the account, and at the same time these funds practically exist in the account because they are not paid on behalf of some claims, debts and so on. The amended Article 140 of this Act states that the labour inspector in the control procedure determines whether the employer pays the earnings, i.e. minimum earnings, and whether he pays the earnings contrary to the provisions of the law. If he has the funds to pay off the bill, therefore the funds to pay off the profits, not the funds in the account, which is one very, very little effective interpretation of this law, which certainly is no different in this sense than the laws that existed and regulated that area of our social life so far. It's very concretely defined by this bill and I ask you to use your arguments in every criticism, and to leave everything that is outside of it for the assembly hall. As a rule, we only do well here after some major crises and I don't think we need them. As far as the committees are concerned, you'd just be dealing with the committees of inquiry if you could interpret the justification of what you're saying here as your own opinions. (Employee Vukic asks for a word, as mentioned)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4804	No replica please, we have a break now. No more speakers, no more mentions. (Employer Vukic insists) He answered only. There's no replica. And according to the Rules of Procedure? He reported to the Rules of Procedure, he didn't mention you either, he only suggested ( Ambassador Vukic insists) no, Prophetovic is there, he only suggested (Employor Vukic insists) the formation of a survey board. (Employer Vukic insists) Okay, here we go, let's finish that and get a little chilly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4805	I just want to before there's a break to tell you that it's a good thing they're showing how they get out of the O.R. when they don't get the story and that you can finally see who's not holding the quorum and who doesn't think he's working in the Assembly room, and otherwise, as far as the I.C. board is concerned, you can make him, but we're not asking him to do that, but you are. As far as the quorum and the discipline of the MPs are concerned, this is your parliamentary majority, Mr. President. There are not 30 of them in the 170 hall and our Serbian radicals have at least five-sixths present. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4806	Paused until 3:00 and 30 minutes. [[After break 15,40-15,50]] I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some MPs today resented this speaker for very often interpreting folk proverbs in a negative context. I think that's positive, that folk sayings are more natural, confirmed in practice and not burned to remind us of them. I'm not going to say a single proverb, but I'll remind you of the Bible, which tells us everything is free for you, but it's no use to you. When taken from the people, and the employees, then taken extensively, and when it comes to establishing some rights of workers, it's all restrictive. Minister Milovanovic assured us yesterday and today that he was not up to the minister's role. He gave us a political speech yesterday, instead of duly defending the bill, which was established by the government. It's not easy, Mr. Minister, being a minister, but you probably think you can be a bishop, so you've also accepted these responsible functions. What is the novelty of this bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act - profits are defined in the gross principle, so it includes regression, a warm meal, overtime, and various other kinds of fees. Next thing you know, the obligation to pay off the money, of course, if there's money. The control of earnings and payments on the basis of contributions and taxes is tightened, by the PDO and labour inspection, which may, if it is established that the employer has not paid the profits (meaning minimum earnings), and has the funds in the account, prohibit the employer from carrying out his work for 30 to 90 days. The minimum profit is 35% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic. Yesterday, the minister told us it was 1,850 dinars. A liter of milk, a liter of yogurt, and two loafs of bread, it costs 120 dinars, and that's what we have to bring into the house every month, that's 3,600 dinars in total. I ask you, Minister, breakfast, lunch, dinner, where's the social program, and what does that minimum profit mean? Will she provide this minimal existence to our workers? The intention of DOS authorities in general is obvious, to fire a large number of employees, because it does not count on economic recovery, but on the further collapse of the economy, and that, of course, it is cheap and that companies are then sold into depravity. The question is also asked - what is the difference between gross wages and the net earnings so far clearly defined, if the employer does not pay off the regress or the warm meal, and some MPs here explained that in most businesses, a warm meal is not paid in cash, and then, Minister, it is not clear how it will be calculated in gross earnings? Then, the bill does not stimulate work longer than full-time, night work, work on shifts, field work, because neither employer nor worker are interested in this kind of work, due to additional taxation, and workers would be placed in an unequal position, since only those workers and those employees, designated by the employer, would periodically make part of the earnings based on these grounds. The penalties provided for should not, for a long time, prevent the exercise of activity, economic activity, because the ban on working for 30 to 90 days will not bring good to the employer or the employee. It is obvious that every business activity is being choked. In addition, it is not the first time that amendments and additions of laws are unprofessionally prepared, some members of the law are deleted and the text is not further edited. That, of course, doesn't surprise us, when we know who's at the secretary of the Legislative Secretariat. The lady who came to the post, not because of her expertise, but only because she is the wife of the current federal interior minister. I do hope, however, that after the adoption of this law, the assembly bodies, whose adoption I have no doubt, will edit this legal text and that it will be published in the Official Messenger. We often hear from this pay phone from DOS MPs that they are calling for something that was before and during some previous government. You know what, your assessment that this government was bad, it can be accepted, but there's a lot more talk about what happened. That government ruled in the last century. Let's see what happens in this century. You're your pre-election promises, let's see how you keep them. I am sorry that Minister Djelic is not here, and Minister Batic is running away with his head regardless, he really touched me yesterday by talking about how caring his father is, and I really appreciate it, but I also want to remind him and the others that 78 days, during the aggression, my three children were in the house all day, sometimes at night, all alone, while my husband and I had work obligations. How did they feel, when they heard the Shabbatz was bombed, that I was in the Whisper, or that the Banishment was bombed, and that I was in the Cup? We heard from Minister Djelic yesterday that there are some normal citizens, as if there are abnormal ones. It does not surprise me, though, from one minister, who apparently does not know enough, perhaps even his native language. Surely one thing - these legal changes will not improve the position of employees, neither will social security improve, and at least eliminate the grey economy, according to Minister Milovanovic. It is surprising that it, which led to the election of the minister, a union, the Association of Independent and Free Unions, is now acting exactly the opposite of trade unions and the treatment of the work-social sphere, in a way that damages the interests of employees and those looking for a job. This area of social relations, as one of the most significant segments, must be regulated legally in one comprehensive way (I mean here on both labour and social issues), and under the constant glass of both the Assembly, and the Government, and the public. We, MPs in the National Assembly, are offered mostly amendments and amendments to the law and announce some radical changes for the future. Let's see these radical changes, and these changes in the meantime, you've seen how long the session takes and how long it takes for any legislative proposal to be adopted, which only speaks of the quality of these proposals. Finally, I also advocate firing employees, without a thorough assessment and evaluation and preparation for their social security afterwards. One of the important programme definitions of the Serbian Radical Party, and we, of course, advocate in Parliament, is stable social legislation and a more secure equal position of employees, (President: Time). So are those who wait for work. I'm done. At the same time, the social economic situation of citizens is previously significant. Mr. President, at the beginning of this session, when it came to the families of the missing in Kosovo and the kidnapped in Kosovo, you said you were sick of the subject. I would suggest that in the future when you're sick, put your finger in your mouth and relax. (From the hall: a radical. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4809	You know very well that I didn't say it, and it's very ugly that you're saying it -- I'm sick and tired of the way people's MPs perform, who use a pay phone, yes, that's what I said to Mr. Nikolic, and it wasn't about his exposure, it was about the general atmosphere. This kind of exposure and the insolences of the MPs of the people are really unsettling. Not about me, about you. The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by Dragan Todorovic, and above all Mr. Seselj per Business, probably. [[Laughter in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4810	Again, Mr. President, you are in violation of those provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning your work (from the O.R.: which member? ) and general provisions concerning the behaviour of the Members of Parliament. You have no right to give such qualifications and to say whose exposure is rude and whose is not. You have no right to do so, and if you are troubled by the atmosphere in the National Assembly, no one is forcing you to continue to perform that function. You've never had enough of the atmosphere because of the behaviour of DOS MPs or DOS ministers who know from this pay phone that they're only lying and slandering and nothing else. You've been making statements through DOS TV for days, how you're going to seduce order in the National Assembly, like you are now someone who needs to seduce order, and in fact you're not in a position to put yourself in line. You guys are funny. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] None of you have ever been to this congregation before. Serbia has never had a more ridiculous authority than DOS. It's a shame that this funniest government will last as soon as possible. It's such a shame. That's why Mr. President, you're keeping a little bit of an account, you violated the Rules of Procedure when you put to the vote exclusion from the session of Natasha Jovanovic, although business conditions have not been met to do so. The Rules of Procedure very clearly regulates the conditions under which such a measure can be said. (From O.R.: theme. Thus, as a warrant arrives to you outside, you create such an atmosphere in the National Assembly. You must learn to endure when you are criticised by opposition MPs. The president of parliament, who is unable to bear it, should not be president, it is simple. Get involved in this crowd of DOSs who only know how to make noise or laugh and no one will even notice you and you won't have reason to complain about your sad fate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4811	The word has been made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who knows which way DOS government broke the Constitution and the law. The federal labour law has not been amended, and it is proposed to the Republic. How can laws be in collegiate? You have an example of guaranteed earnings in federal law, and you have minimum earnings in the Republic law. Labour Minister Dragan Milovanovic, otherwise a major labour rights syndicate, a highly moral person, a real union official, who has now taken over from the post of president of the Union of Free and Independent Unions of Serbia in the ministerial chair. The Minister is clearly no longer interested in the rights of the worker. He is more concerned with the fear that his ministerial post will not be taken over by the new president of the Union of Free and Independent Unions, for the time being only MP Bratislav Curic of Nis, who stands behind all these laws and unreservedly supports them. Ambassador Bratislava of Nis requests the payment of workers in foreign currency. It is likely as well as Minister of Labour and Employment (Minister Milovanovic from the post: employment) thanks to foreign currency has become what he is. What is this law, which contains only 19 members of the bill and why this law is a transitional solution, when a new law is expected very quickly. The proposed law offers restrictions of opt-out for workers who lose their jobs. The bankruptcy of new businesses has been suggested, and to remind you of industrial production in the first quarter of this year is 11% lower than last year, although there are no sanctions and by the way 6 billion dollars that came into our country. The government says these are so far proposed laws, which will bring us closer to Europe and that they represent a reduction in the burden of citizens and businesses. Can we talk about disbanding Serbian citizens if the DOS fiscal system is viewed only in new electricity prices, PTT services, medicines, increasing consumer basket prices. Apparently, this law will eliminate the gray economy. By introducing gross earnings, you will tax a warm meal, a regress, various fees on which no tax has been paid at all. Are you paying for a warm meal and a regression of the gray economy? No one ever listens to you, sir, so you know. The democratic opposition to Serbia only reduces the possibility of paying any profit, DOS shock therapy instead of guaranteed net earnings, determines the right to minimum earnings. I ask DOS government, what will it do to resolve the situation in the Jablani County, or "Serbian", "IKOV", "Leteks", the textile industry in Gardelica, the textile industry in Vucia. How it will pay them minimum earnings, workers who work or what the government is up to to do with the workers she fired, or is just about to fire. Can these questions be answered, and above all this applies to the Minister of Labour and Employment, and what is he planning and what is he saying to his union colleagues and activists? I'm asking the Minister of Labour and Employment, does he really agree that, without any protection, workers remain, so who's working for over 30 years, who's going to hire them again at that age? I suggest that this bill is not passed and that the Minister of Labour and Employment withdraws this law, not that it gives us some mutative explanation. In the end, I would just ask a question, and above all, to individual MPs who are funny, enough, when members of the SRS are arrested or ready to attack them. I may not be a competent person, given that I'm an intern, but there are a lot of people who are neuropsychiatrics here to explain whether or not pathology is involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4813	The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4814	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I will try not to have, I do not take too much of the time that apparently our DOS colleagues spend on other things, as we very often come to the situation that the quorum does not exist because of their absence. First of all, I'm against adopting such a legal proposal for many reasons. Moreover, such a legal proposal is indeed in breach of the federal law on basic labour rights. I wonder if anyone among us or among you from DOS wants to in this way to indirectly deny the existence of a federal state, and since it is about harmonising our laws with European legislation, why it has not joined the harmonisation of federal laws with these European legislation, it is now going to this republican level and thus bringing Republic and federal legislation into conflict. Furthermore, I am against such transitional solutions, as the situation arises that these are transitional laws. First we had an announcement that laws would be passed from all areas, brand-new. Is this the Health Insurance Act, pension-inhabitation, labour relations and so on. Now we have some transitional solutions that, I think, really serve to cover time or to waste time in the work of this Parliament, perhaps for unnecessary spending of funds that you yourself say aren't even small. Also, I think that such a legal proposal seeks to mitigate the effect that a set of tax laws, which has already been passed, will have on the business of our economy. In order to illustrate this, I have to say that according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, industrial production in the period January-March 2001, compared to the same period last year, is less by 0.8%, while compared to the average production of last year is lower by 1.2%. Capacity simplification is low and averages only about 30%. At the same time, liquidity takes up the general situation so that it can be claimed that over 60% of business entities are non-equity. According to data from the Labour Market Fund last year, although a slight decline in the number of unemployed, this year the number of unemployed is already 735,877, compared to the last period, the number of unemployed is rising monthly by about 4.5%. In the coming period, the number of unemployed will also be as much as possible depending on the speed of the privatisation process, which will most likely soon come as the last segment of the government's work, as all of the government's activities are aimed at doing just that, towards its own transformation. Also, this kind of development of events and such a bill, it is aimed at amortizing major social unrest that is being seen in the perspective. Namely, firing workers is very certain due to such a set of tax laws. I contacted the representatives of the district economy I come from, and I have to tell you that the social sector businessmen have said a little more shyly that they will not be able to meet the obligations imposed on them in this way, while the private sector businessmen are a little more open-minded and say that the number of employees will have to be corrected, of course, to a lower level because they are not economically willing to respond, first of all, to the obligations that are related to the payment of mandatory social and pension insurance contributions. Of course, it will lead employees to a very negative and very bad situation, because they will have to cope. Existence will have to be provided, they'll have to compromise with their employers by either working on black or doing some extra work, and that, right to tell you, there's a lot in Pirot, because he's an extremely active flea. The government's policy, unfortunately, is going against resuscitation of production and it is indeed very certain that we will have an increase in the number of unemployed. As far as the solutions to this bill are concerned, I can agree that a minimum profit should be introduced instead of guaranteed earnings. Of course, there is the question of whether this minimum profit is at a level of 35% of the average in the Republic or 40%, since in one place, the legal text mentions the figure of 35%, and in the interpretation of the 40% figure. I urge that it be corrected and that it be made clear to the MPs and to the public what is true. From the point of view of the social security of workers, it's good that they have the right to minimum profit. We can think that's a good thing if employers have enough money to pay them that minimum wage. In the long run, however, the situation will arise that these employers do not have enough funds for that minimum wage, so they will have to fire them. Of course, it's all about exploiting an economic situation that's been created by removing sanctions and where forces really don't pay attention to in the current schedule. Also, I must say that I am a very large skeptic as regards this productivity increase of our economy and that, in the end, I would say that some of the associations of free and independent trade unions, who were previously in that association and felt free and independent, probably now that they have moved to the government, feel unfree and dependent, and that some of those associations are very good at the ground when they need to destroy local government, let's say, in Dimitrovgrad, and at this point, these authorities are being treated in a very bad way without the necessary parliamentary majority in the Assembly, while on the other hand, although the Assembly of the municipality has proved themselves and proved themselves in the White Palanca as legal and as very good, temporary measures are being introduced. Also, I have to tell Mr. Batić that a man can shut up forever in two ways. One way is to lose sight, and another way is to die. I don't think there are those among you who think that in any way we should silence those who may have been in power earlier and who might be in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4815	The People's Messenger Đura Lazic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4816	The Honorable President, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, after a adopted package of tax laws that bring employers into an extremely difficult and responsible job, i.e. imposes a responsible obligation to first settle obligations towards the state, and after personal incomes, also brings workers into a difficult position. This Labour Relations Act, in particular in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, Article 1 relating to Article 34(1) in force, where compensation is provided for workers who remain jobless, i.e. the height of that remuneration, brings these workers into an unfavourable position. I speak as a man, and I believe that we should all think about how we would feel if we were to find ourselves in the position of those workers who, say, after 10, 20 or 30 years of working in a collective, in one company, should be out of a job. I wouldn't go into what criteria and how, but assuming they're out of a job, they're fired. It's really small. I don't mean the amount, because that amount is charged through gross personal income, but it has been significantly reduced monthly compared to the applicable law. My suggestion would be to use the minister's presence to remain in this part of the current law, because it would be very helpful for the workers. Why? I would rather observe this provision in the context of the Privatisation Act, which will soon follow. According to Prime Minister Vlahovic's announcement and what he prepares about this privatisation law, foreign factors and many of those who would like to buy shares and shares in our businesses can, according to these announced legal projects, buy up to 70%, and 30% remain for free distribution of shares to employees in these companies. In view of the fact that workers who are required under this law, who can lose their jobs after 30 years of work in these companies, during that time they only earned their own income and fed themselves and their families, but worked, created an accumulation for extended reproduction and from these means expanded production capacity, made more production possible, and thus created conditions for increased employment of unemployed young people. It is unfair and inhumane that these people who have, for example, spent 30 years in these companies, invested in expanded reproduction, eventually left out of a job with five personal incomes. What are these people going to do with these resources, considering the price rise and the drop in living standards? If there were to remain a provision of the law that is now in force, I mean with that compensation, they could do something about it, start a new job. This way, people are going to fight to survive, they're going to have to do some other jobs, they're going to work on the basis of this law, in black, to promote the gray economy. I think it would also be human because of the perspective and fate of those people who worked in these businesses to keep an existing member of the law. Finally, to take advantage of the minister's presence to ask one suggestion about employees in business companies in Kosovo and Metohija, who, for the sake of fierce attacks by the Shipatarian hordes, terrorists from northern Albania, Macedonia, Drenica, with the help of so-called peace forces in Kosovo and Metohija, were left without jobs, expelled from their factories and their hearths, who were left without basic means of life, not our own fault, should take care of these people too, not to leave them without a basic life existence. The government of the People's Unity tried to ease the problem by paying off a number of guaranteed profits. In this way, these people shared fate and workers from all over Serbia, from companies that were destroyed in the NATO pact's aggression. However, at this session, there is now one law, namely the decision to abolish these funds, and the possibility, so I ask the minister what we are going to do with these workers, and I would suggest that the minister with his service and with other resolution ministries from industry and agriculture, depending on which sector businesses are in, to calm down the situation, to see which companies at Cosmet are working, and which are. Through the Development Directorate, the government has assisted the functions of these cooperatives and companies that can work there as much as they can, and those who have moved out with accounts to see how many employees are employed who receive personal incomes, and those who are down there who can't work and who are displaced, to help them survive until they are given an opportunity to get a working relationship and return to Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4817	The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4818	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is about a very important law and the first thing I want to say is that if someone reads it to someone who doesn't live in Serbia and doesn't know our economic and political opportunities, they probably wouldn't assume that this is the kind of proposal submitted by the democratic DOS government. The introduction of this law would contribute to increasing labour efficiency, better discipline and accountability would be good. However, the law essentially hides the negatives and bad intentions of the DOS government. The government wants to free itself of surplus labour, with as little compensation as possible for workers and as little responsibility as possible. It has once again proved that the pre-election promises of DOS authorities are filled with great lies and fraud. When they realized that they had been deceived by promises of various donations of six billion dollars, they had approached other illegal methods of selling factories and firing workers. The workers, with minimum compensation, are firing jobs, so they'll become social cases. Time is moving away, everything created by the current DOS government degrades, factories fail, workers are out of work and DOS government is distracting them with various promises and new restructurings and about the improvement tomorrow. I ask you, does the latest innuendo of Professor Jovan Rankovic, a member of the Economic Committee of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which stands out, quote "For workers who are in their businesses of surplus, it would be best to lose their jobs as soon as possible. The sooner it happens to them, the better chance they'll get to live. "What nonsense, what demagogy. Also, the bill came before the MPs without any consultation with socio-oriented interest organisations, citizens, trade unions. Laws are passed as in a hive, precisely in a revolutionary way, behind the backs of those who are concerned and as far as they are concerned and even though they are known or must be known to cause a social injustice of great proportions. It turns out that DOS has more regard for not hurting criminals in its ranks, and what will happen to honest citizens is less important, they are used to paying everyone's bills anyway. The DOS government, which calls itself democratic power, has begun to violate this self-called democracy even in the roots of its existence. Instead of this law to reduce the grey economy and put a fiscal system on new grounds, i.e. to draw closer to the fiscal system set out in European legislation, the government advocates with this law a completely contrary pre-election promise, the closure of businesses. A worker loses all the rights guaranteed by the old Labour Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the personal income that employers pay to employees each month is: a fee for a warm meal, a regress, a field allowance and transportation costs. This compensation for a warm meal serves to resuscitate the family budget, to feed, to educate children, to dress, to buy heat, and so on. That fee constitutes a minimum of the right to be paid to employees for working days. Regres used to serve recreational workers on behalf of the cost of taking vacations. Today, however, it remains a reception that wants to preserve the family budget. For the sake of the need for service, the employer shall be obliged to ensure that the costs on the ground or the provision of accommodation and nutrition are compensated, or by payment of the fees, which shall cover those costs. I don't know where you come from, like you don't see how poor and miserable working people live. Instead of pulling a line below which the standard of living of workers must not fall, you take away the minimum necessary to survive. According to Minister Bozidar Djelic, we are wasting the future. i.e. The regress money, the warm meal, the field allowance, and what are we going to do about the present, Mr. Minister? In the current time when no company works or works with reduced capacity in the manufacturing sphere, since earnings to workers are not paid by collective agreements and are not paid at all somewhere, where there is a warm meal, a regress and compensation for the costs of transporting the units of receipts. Taxing the compensation for a warm meal and a regress would be devastating for many businesses and would make it even worse for such a difficult material and social situation for workers. I believe that this law should be carried out until the government's measures are operational and the government improves the standard of living of workers with its own measures. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the government has found a historic solution with the flag union and 5,000 workers, the pleasure seems to be on both sides, and the most pleased are representatives of the government. The first stay of the Minister for Industry and Privatisation of Aleksandr Vlahovic in the flag on 22 March of this year ended with a dinner at the Kragujeva restaurant "Rojal Club" which cost 24634 dinars or 820 marks. They paid half for the flag of A.D. and the flag union. Well, my dears, now you see how much one dinner cost and 25 warm meals. Will they also tax their stomachs? Ladies and gentlemen, now I'm going to paint you on how this law works and at the metal-processing plant "Metal-plastics" in Šapec. On November 21st to St. Archangel's current president, he is not here, Radosav Veseinovic's Chamber of Commerce falls with its group of criminals from Nis and Novi Sad in the circle of this factory. Disarming security, the director tied to the chair...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4819	Mr. Zivanovic, you've been talking for eight minutes, and you haven't even mentioned the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4820	... in his office and informs the workers that he owns this model collective from that day forward. The union and the Management Board meet quickly, and Mr. Vesenovic is a member of the Democratic Party, and the party's head is Mr. Batic, the minister of justice, Vesenovic takes paper out of his pocket and shows that he has bought several hundred shares and wants to manage the factory as well as Mr. Panic in Galenica from that day on. This collective was estimated at 10 million marks with 108,782 shares - 100% 39,852 shares - for the PIO state 36,63% 68,930 shares - private capital, which should be bought by workers, which is 63,37%. From that day forward for this collective...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4821	Mr. Zivanovic, you didn't start talking about what you called about after nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4822	Here's the theme. ... They take the poles into their hands and these bastards and hooligans throw them out of the factory circle. But Vjesinovic is not at rest, followed by party chief Batic and police minister Mihajlovic, resorting to other methods of their own, the arrest of the director of "Mepritlastics" allegedly for embezzlement, and for company director set up a corrupt personality of Dul Petrovic. The Batic-Michajlović-Veselinović-Peterovic team is now being created. It moves to buy shares from pensioners, the value of one action is 100 marks, and Vesenovic pays them 15 marks. Workers, scared, selling their shares, taking them to court to sign contracts without anyone's presence, getting nothing...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4823	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4824	Here, I'm going. I would also say that it's funny, how funny the amount of severance is, after years of internships carried out in the factory, that's what my predecessors have said, since I've submitted an amendment to this article, I'll say more about it later. I've given this law four amendments, so I'll also say more about them later. Ladies and gentlemen, is this DOS privatisation, by which Mr. Veselinović, President of the Chamber of Commerce...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4825	It's not the Privatisation Act, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4826	A collection worth 10 million marks fell to 527 thousand marks. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to say that we Serbian radicals...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4827	I beg you, for the second time I warn you to finish, the time has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4828	... in the National Assembly, we have 23 MPs and we are all the personal security of the party president.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4829	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4830	Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to first address Mr. Djelic, Minister of Finance, about his very inspired and emotional speech last night. Djelic tried here last night to challenge the pity of present MPs and probably all Serbian citizens, showing himself as a patriot, who came to Serbia after 10 or 15 years. Since he is not here, I will say what I intended to say to him, postpone for a second chance, but I will address, although Mr Milovanovic has also left, I will address Mr Milovanovic, because his proposal, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Law, is on the agenda. And Mr. Milovanovic here last night, very inspired and mitting speaking, gave a very flammable mitting speech. At one point I thought it was an educated, highly educated man, so I looked up the material we got here when we were just choosing the government. The material for the gentleman in question says: Born 1955, by the interest of a metalman, before the end of the study of engineering. Obviously, it's DOS personnel, a very promising minister, and what's it gonna be like when she finishes her studies? Mr. Milovanovic is living proof of how expert this government is, of course, after the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Vesenov. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is obvious that it is restrictive, but in the first article that changes some of the provisions of the current law. Namely, the severance paid to workers in case of termination of the need for their work is now very restrictively altered, so that in the most difficult case of workers who have worked for over 30 years, instead of the 12 so far, it is now 5 earnings. The minister tried to justify it by saying that now it is a gross profit, that the profits are much higher than the earnings so far, which were net and also, arguing, are the lowest. Therefore, the employer may also pay for an amount greater than that. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a specific question, given that he's not here, there are associates, so I'd like to ask Mr. Minister's associates, to hear this and to answer me, either they, or Mr. Minister. I have asked competent people who deal with accounting affairs to account for how much money the employer needs, to ensure that workers with the lowest qualifications, means the first and second degree of professional training, pay by the current way of accounting, still valid, pay off the lowest base currently at 1,634 dinars. These accounts say, when payments are made, all contributions are made to workers and to the burden of the employer, when taxes and other contributions are paid, that it is necessary for the employer to provide 3,217 dinars. So in order to pay off a profit of 1,630 dinars to a worker with the first second degree of professional training, the employer must provide 3,217 dinars. If you add a thousand dinars to a hot meal, which is untaxed, then the bill stands like this. The employer needs to provide 4.217 dinars to get the worker's hands on 2,634 dinars. Since the funds available for the payment of earnings, unfortunately, will not change in a positive direction, in the next period, I ask the question of how much will it take for the employer to provide the worker with a first and second degree professional arrangement of 2,634 dinars or how much earnings can be provided by the employer to the first and second degree of expertise if there are only 4.217 dinars available under the new accounting system that is now in the procedure. In the procedure, a new accounting system or new basis for calculating contributions to pension and disability insurance as well as health insurance, which increased these minimum bases by about 100%. I'm afraid that bill will be at the expense of the workers. I'm afraid of this money that can't be increased, or at least not so fast, now the workers will get much less. One of the authorities noted that it would lower contributions rates for pension and disability insurance as well as health insurance. I personally doubt that since the tax rate remained at the same level as it had been before. A certain confusion in this proposal is the right and Article 6 which determines a minimum profit of 35% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic. However, according to this member, the minimum profit is 40% of the average earnings in the Republic. This average profit includes out-of-profits, which means that the amount is higher if there is no difference from this 5% at all. I would ask the government gentlemen to resolve this confusion and give precise information as to how much minimum earnings will be made in this proposal that is in the procedure. In the end, Mr. Chairman, I would ask you to put this assembly on the agenda and on the issue of southern Serbia and the question of Kosovo and Metohija, after three months. We are aware of all the problems in southern Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija. We know that this government has one co-ordination body in southern Serbia and is carrying out certain activities for which this government, or this assembly, has singled out a substantial amount in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It would be extremely correct if after three months or six months, how much that body works in Kosovo and Metohija and in southern Serbia, to come before this assembly and these MPs and submit a report on activities in southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4831	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I only have one comment. Since several MPs today have asked me to establish the agenda, although you know that it is not in the power of the President of the Assembly, and you know very well how your parliamentary group, as well as any other, can submit a proposal for a resolution of conclusions to the National Assembly and suggest that it be placed on the agenda and entered into the Assembly procedure. When they do so - you or any MP or parliamentary group - I will do so as the president of the National Assembly, in accordance with my obligations, and to fulfill and close this story once again about who puts the theme of South Serbia and Kosovo on the agenda of this parliament. Please file a request and do not talk about the need for someone else to apply for you and to address me as well. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the presentation of the bill in principle, I ask the chairman to put on a motion immediately after my presentation to place in all Serbian cities the panorams with a picture of "God" Batic, which my parents asked me to do, because when these posters are in public places, they return home before dark, afraid of meeting with night vampires. All costs for making and setting these logs should be deducted from the salary of the MPs sitting in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4833	Mr. Janjic, I even come to the dilemma of whether it makes sense to warn you at all and give you a warning. I really ask you to keep an eye on your behavior, and how you talk about MPs, ministers and your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4834	Starting with the fact that we are also MPs, workers working in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that in this Bill on Working Relations, a very important area, or a danger to individual employees, is consciously bypassed. We are all aware of the fact that the worker's alcohol has a fatal effect on the organism. It's especially dangerous when it happens in those who decide the fate of others. Alcohol causes cirrhosis of the liver, huge eyeballs, and deviant behavior. So I try to understand and forgive some of the decisions made or made by the working majority in this assembly, i.e. the voting machine in this assembly. God may forgive them because they do not know what they are doing but Serbian citizens and workers, especially Serbian radicals, will neither forgive nor forget. Also, workers will not forgive the government's "workers" or the government of Serbia for such work and also for the working or parliamentary simple majority in this assembly. If Mr. Chairman recognizes himself in my discussion, I give him four minutes for replication, I won't go into his word and he doesn't have to stick to the agenda. Of course when I'm done. The attitude of government towards workers and citizens is already at the part of the new laws itself, so it is my duty as a MP to warn citizens and workers that we are destined for the fate of the surrounding Balkan states destroyed by the economy. We'll have bright commercials from foreign companies, empty pockets, sold or destroyed factories. I hope that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for all its citizens, has provided us with entry into all European countries without visas and reception centres with three meals a day. If it's DOS, that's enough. I especially thank Mr. Cedi, give him a stenogram, he is not here to hear, for his contribution to saving fuel for the transport of the state administration because he has so far destroyed a couple of cars causing multimillion-dollar damage to the state of Serbia, as the Chancellor said, "The children were racing. "A kid with 11 years of student training, little of your big kids. A child with a driver and a security guard racing official cars ran into the flag (little South). A flag will come to you at the door of Parliament to invoice damage for the destroyed south. The bill, I hope, will be peppered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4835	Mr. Janjic, I warn you twice to start talking about what you have come to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4836	Here, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to start by quoting a newspaper who dared to quote one of the insolent ones in this assembly. When asked -- what was the atmosphere in the Assembly, the halls and the buffet of the Assembly -- "In the beginning, the assembly buffet was very problematic, the good part of DOS MPs was a frequent guest of this buffet, so there was a situation where several of them consumed a larger amount of alcohol. But it had one good side -- they were all together, so when the quorum is missing, someone comes out of DOS and invites them off the bar, because that's where they're sipping. When this has taken place, or is a worrying situation, it is forbidden to pour alcohol, so these same MPs have to hide bottles in various offices and basements. Now that they're missing the quorum, they're struggling to find them, who's got a hole in it." You know who dared to say something like that - some MP Janjic, and he was still taking pictures, here he is, taking pictures with the jeep, which says "The worst is DOS", and published "Novo's crows". Let Chad take a picture with his jeep, it doesn't have to say DOS is the worst, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4837	The Rules of Procedure in Rule 99, which states that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect, and thirdly, not to use offensive expressions, nor to present facts and assessments, which relate to the private life of other persons. Now, exactly what you're saying at the bar, Mr. Seselj, I've been trying to reason with you for five years, it didn't work out for me, of course, and it didn't work out for your mom, and I've been trying to tell you for five years that it's rude, that it doesn't help, but now I'm asking you, really Christian, to listen to these requests from Serbs and those Serbs who are watching us, to free us from your tortures and terrorism. And by the way, Mr. President, I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and turn off those who don't respect Article 99 so we can vote on it, and I'm asking you really Christianly to free us, to spare us this sea of yours and to let us finish these laws, because you're so small, that's what you've been telling me for at least four years, and now you're small. We'll do as we please, you know, but please, at least release this Serbia now, because you've ruled for a lot of 10 years, so let us at least make them happy in our own way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4838	Who else wants to talk about the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4839	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting to the same member, so Article 99 is injured, and that's not weird. Mr. Janjic, every time he comes out here, he breaks this member. Since Mr. Seselj, whenever he comes out here, the Rules of Procedure for a little abuse, let me use it this time, since I'm saying it the first time. Here, for a month here we patiently listen to the MPs of the opposition, primarily the Radical Party, with a series of amendments they submit, and with the announcement of all their MPs, on every item of the agenda, on the grounds that they want to show citizens how disastrous these laws are for them and how they want to improve those laws. It is a story for those who do not understand what the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia really want, and are mainly obstructing the work of this parliament. And with honorable exceptions, they write the papers and come here to read these references, which they prescribe from each other. If Mr. President insists that Serbian Radical Party MPs and the Socialist Party of Serbia speak orally here, there is hardly anything left of these referendums. And now to go back to Mr. Janjic, given that he often likes to wave the papers here, what's worse than the world is what happened before the weekend end and that they recorded all the newspapers, and here, for example, "Today," it says in the title, "I wouldn't be the first, not the last ball, I've slaughtered." Mr Janjic insulted DOS MP Meh Omerovic. I know MPs are protected because of their verbal expression and because of the vote, but they are not protected because of their actions. I suggest, I'm sorry that this is not the minister of justice, that Mr. Janjic is deprived of his parliamentary immunity and, since he claimed to have done this, to determine if he did this? And very often, Mr. Janjic, I ask myself, since I see you in green suits all the time, where did you get all these green suits?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4840	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 99 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, which reads: "People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." I've been a member of this assembly for three months. I've never called before. So far, I've also been called a DOS mercenary, a NATO mercenary, and as a fool, and I've heard a lot of things here, and I'm talking to you, Mr. President, to protect us from it, because I can't take this anymore. I'm just saying, I've been a professor of neuropsychiatrics for 35 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4842	Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? First, I have the right to the replica of Mr. Janjic. [[Employer Janjic seeks replica]] It's not Janjic's right to my discussion, it's me at his discussion, he told me he's giving me four minutes. Where are you, Mr. Janjic? You're asking to replicate yourself? What do you have to say, what are you answering for?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4843	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, I asked you to put Mr. Batic's posters to be introduced to Serbia, you did not put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4844	You asked me to replicate and give me four minutes. I'd like to leave this session to my colleague. I give up that right. I'd say, I'm completely convinced, you wouldn't understand anything. Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word of the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4845	Mr. President, I hope you show great good faith, as always, and that you will add that four minutes to mine, so that I have a total of six minutes, because I have three to replicate. All three insulted the Serbian Radical Party, and one of them mentioned me personally. Do you mind? Thank you, Mr. President, you're very kind. First, I would like to remind this neuropsychiatrist who was behind the pay phone and who says that he has 35 years of psychiatric training that there is a very beautiful illustration by Anton Pavlovich Chekhov, called Pavilion No. 6. A story about a case, when after long sessions and conversations, a psychiatrist and his patient changed roles. [[Laughter]] They forgot who the psychiatrist was, and who the patient was, they simply switched roles during the interview. Out of the O.R. Entered the Radical Party. ) As far as this false accusation is concerned (from the O.R.: and he thinks he's a psychiatrist now, a laugh). It's funny again, I don't know what's funny, I don't really know what's funny, but it's probably funny. It's funny that now Serbia can see who it voted for. The false accusations that Mr. Janjic called anyone a ballroom, they're really disgusting. The Serbian Radical Party has quite a number of honourary citizens of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, who are Islamic religions. Thirdly, you gentlemen from this booth are only protesting when you don't like the display of Serbian radicals. You are not prepared to enter into the debate, when some of your leaders come out for this pay phone, they are used with lies, with some slander (from the hall). He started stuttering) and that's all. You ask us to act as you do, to keep quiet and let all these laws pass quickly, to vote and to apply as soon as possible. Our goal is to expose these laws here to you, to prevent you, to try to stop you from adopting them, or to show the people how bad they are, in advance to warn the people. You are trying to divide that power absolutely in this system by the Constitution of a guaranteed division. You think what's going on outside, what the executive government is doing, also DOS can't have any repercussion on this parliament. (From O.R.: theme. 10 Serbian radicals were arrested this morning for no reason. You're the only one looking forward to it. [[Applause]] One of them, Vojin Milosevic, was arrested in Bolevci, his apartment was searched, nothing was found in him, and then special police searched his septic pit. When the cops started to pick on the septic pit, Vojin Milosevic asked them, why didn't you bring the gnomes? That's what a special officer hit him with an automatic rifle on the head. It was an extenuating circumstance for Vojin Milosevic, they beat him up and left him at home, they didn't arrest him. I guess they think they can't arrest him yet. Vasilija Vidovic, Branislav Gavrilović, Vojislav Zivkovic, Miloja Tomic, Sreko Krajisnik, Slobodan Katić, Nenad Jovanovic, Milisav Miladinović and Radmilo Malic were arrested, the complete security of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4846	Mr. Seselj, I've given you time, but still don't use it for what you're using it for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4847	This was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4848	What does this have to do with a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4849	Yes, I'm showing you what you're doing out there, how upset you are by the Serbian Radical Party, how angry the DOS government is at Serbian radicals, not to choose funds, just to make mistakes. It's already a head loss. She's lost the government's head, the baula, she doesn't know what she's doing, and this sure as hell won't work out for you. ( From Hall: Gyp. And as far as the jeep is concerned, that's where you lie first. It's a jeep that the state seized and assigned to a Serbian radical party, and you're lying that I stole that jeep. The fact that you're lying, it'll only break your head. You're the only one who's going to get his head broken, because using such disgusting lies in politics, you're cutting the branch you're sitting on. It's impossible to survive on that branch for a long time. It's impossible to build a political program on lies. This political program of yours built on lies, first on false promises of $6 billion in a pre-election campaign, and now on lies about its political and ideological opponents, it cannot survive. You'll be strutting like a map tower. You had to let Milanovic out of jail, too. You've failed, you've cracked completely. Your system's falling apart. Nothing works in that system. That's what's bothering you, that's what hurts you, that doesn't give you a peaceful sleep and that's what you so pathologically hate Serbian radicals. You're the most angry because you can't find us any crime. No malfeasance, there's nothing you can do. You're the only one who's howlin' like dicks on the moon. You can't find anything. You'd be happiest if you could at least do something. You can't do anything, you can sow lies and slander, and you can harass people you think are going to be wrong or hard to fall on. He can't. When you kill us, if you succeed in killing us, know, our graves remain with you to fight. You can't succeed if there's never been a funnier government in Serbia. [[Laughter]] There has never been a more corrupt government in Serbia, and you have one Vladin Batic, who is just running into his chest to be a Christian. [[Applause radically.]] He is a Christian, here and the honorary president of his party, Milan Panic satanist. He's proud to be his honorary president. Guys, think about it, torture those heads, maybe there's a brain cell somewhere, maybe it's not just a bit of stale fluid, maybe there's something to think about more rationally. (From the O.R.: and the flats? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4850	Replica, we have a Rules of Procedure, then a replica. Panic has changed his faith since before noon. In the morning, you said he was a syantologist.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4851	I reported to the Rules of Procedure earlier, since two positions of 98 and 99 were roughly violated. In Article 98(1) and Article 99(3), paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: As Mr Janjic said he was concerned about the work of MPs and the fate of the people, and he mentioned the flag group, I would ask him to explain to me the review of payments made from the programme of reconstruction and development of the group "Zava AD", where two sponsorships and donations under regular count one mentions donation to the Serbian Radical Party of 128 thousand and 366 dinars, and more interestingly, this amount was paid 19. 5. 2000, and the decision of the Management Board was made only 22. 5. 2000, the board of directors on which Mr Tomislav Nikolic sat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4852	First of all, Mr. Janjic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4853	There's a gentleman here. I don't know his name. That's what some newspapers said, if I wanted to deny such nonsense, I'd deny it. I asked one of the writers of that text, he said he was ordered to do so without even talking about the denial. I don't care about that at all. However, a gentleman who has slandered me so much about this pay phone, it would be better to ask where the female sex is getting the wardrobe and what it looks like than to ask where the men are getting the wardrobe.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4854	Mr. Seselj, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4855	What arguments do DOS have? Ministers from the Serbian Radical Party who received apartments have been given full legal approval. Next, what arguments do you have? The GPS has assigned the state to the Serbian Radical Party, as a legal person. Why don't you talk about what the current heads of government are doing? (A voice from the O.R.: Out of need of security. ) The jeep was assigned by the state to the Serbian Radical Party to protect the president because the jeep was blinded. But the state wanted the same jeep to assign to the Democratic Party, to protect Zoran Djindjic. However, when we were looking for Djindjic, he had already gone to aggressor countries. As for the donations from the flag, 120,000 dinars, first of all, there's nothing more normal than a company to donate to a foreigner. We see that Galenika also donated a donation to the Democratic Party of Serbia. But what is it about this case? Tomislav Nikolic was a member of the Management Board. Tomislav Nikolic refused to receive a monthly amount on behalf of the board's membership. Since he had not received the monthly amount for nearly two years, the Management Board has decided that the amount, which he would have accepted, would have been paid to the Serbian Radical Party. Here, I invite you to check now whether the Management Board paid the monthly amount regularly to all its members and what is the monthly amount. Make sure Tomislav Nikolic got that money. Find a letter from Tomislav Nikolic, which must be in the archives of the flag, that he refused to receive that amount and "The flag" paid it to the Serbian Radical Party. You find some crime. You can't find crime. (loud from the O.R.: It's a crime. For you, DOS, it's a crime. And when Djindjic monopolies oil imports and only his mobsters import, his Baby and others, when Djindjic travels with his mobster on a private plane to official visits to foreign countries, it is not a crime. (President: Time. Your crime is now on the table. You can't find anything for us, and we'll give you reputed evidence books. We have already started with Batic and Dusan Mihajlovic, and then we will talk about Covic and Djindjic. One by one here will be on the wallpaper, so you'll see who the real criminals are in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4856	He has the word Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4857	Dear Mr. President, ladies and fellow MPs, I thought I would never be in a position, in a new assembly, in a new Serbia, to resist and talk about how some people, especially people who have received the trust of the people, share people on a national and religious basis. But obviously, I was wrong. Representatives of the former regime, depicted in a party on this side, continue to think and continue to serve in a dictionary of hate, in a dictionary of all that is neither like the MPs nor the work of normal political parties. Here were the words about what happened the day the famous stolen jeep was carried from Kosovo and Metohija territory. Sir, whose name I'm not going to mention, he was wearing, and now he's wearing the suit of paint my predecessor mentioned. At the moment that the workers of the Ministry of the Interior were taking a spider to Mr. Vojislav Seselj, it was a little harder to take that jeep away because Mr. Seselj came after him, so, you know, he gained some weight. Mr. Slobodan Janjic, with several Serbian Radical Party MPs, has returned to the assembly benches, has returned to collect certain documents. In the presence of several MPs, and at that moment the Assembly was just continuing to work, cursing my mother several times. He cursed my mother several times. I tried not to react to such curses. I told him, I admit to this pay phone-- you fool, get out, join your radicals. That's what he said, coming out of the bench, go out into the hallway, he wouldn't be the first or the last ball that I've slaughtered. Mr. Seselj, you are a man who was born in the former republic of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as am I. You know it's an insult to the representatives of my people. You know that very well. You've spent a very long time with them in your life. So, Mr. Slobodan Janjic, not only has he denied Mr. Dragisic but also you, personally, that the Serbian Radical Party, a party in which there are also living people who are not only Serbian nationalities. It seems that after what he did, Mr Janjic may be the chairman of some international relations committee. Because he may be solving these issues with a knife, or with some other blunt weapon, as you handled it with rusty spoons, implementing a policy of great Serbia that you stood up for. I'm glad to see Mr. Seselj swallowing dumplings. (Emissary Seselj, from the scene: you can smoke me.) [[Applause]] I apologize, Mr. President, to warn Mr. Seselj, who told me to smoke. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4858	I'm asking you to finish this conversation. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. [[after breaks]] I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to continue the work. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Here's to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Budimovic according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Janjic replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4860	Mr. President, MPs, I find the violation of Rule 99, the violation of Rules of Procedure 101 and the violation of Rule 103, because as an MP of a democratic state, I have felt threatened by the discussion and behaviour of Vojislav Seselj, because I find that those members of the Rules of Procedure are being violated, that national hatred is being spread, which we have all fought against so far, and we believe that in this manner of work and behaviour of certain members of this high house and in front of the public of the whole country we are not obliged and we must not suffer this kind of behavior. I propose to the assembly and the president that we make a decision by voting on Mr. Seselj's distance from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4861	First I will have to put your motion to the vote that the Rules of Procedure have been broken at the points you mentioned, and then your motion for a vote. I would like to vote on a proposal from the People's Parliament that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Articles 99, 101 and 103. Please let us be clear about this. For 128, against 22, there were no abstentions, no 34 votes, a total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Articles 99, 101 and 103 of Section 2. I am putting to the vote the proposal of MP Vlasimir Budimovic as his own to give Mr Seselj a measure of distance from the session to the MP. I ask the People's Messengers to declare it. For 128, against 27, there were no abstentions, there were no 34 votes, a total of 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to measure the distance of Mr. Seselj's MP from this session. I ask Mr. Seselj's MP to step away from the hall by respecting the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the National Assembly. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4862	I, however, urge Mr. President and your fellow MPs to continue working in a more normal atmosphere. We can heat tensions, we can do what we want here, and most of what we want, but yet one more normal atmosphere would be advisable, following these proposals made by a colleague, especially by members he listed, and Article 103, no provision, does not apply to what MP Vojislav Seselj should be removed from this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4863	Mr. Mircic, we will not comment on the Parliament's decision. The decision has been made. If you have an objection to a breach of the Rules of Procedure after the measure has been made, please say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4864	President, you've put it to the vote whether the Rules of Procedure have been broken. If you're so sure it's clearly defined in the Rules of Procedure why did you put it to the vote? What has been defined in the Rules of Procedure has no vote. If you were sure, how are you sure when the Serbian radicals come out whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken or not? You're always safe. I beg you and appeal to you, calm the atmosphere, you are one of the most responsible. It is the first among the equals, but you are the most responsible. You can do different scenarios, but it's already been seen. It was seen by Dragan Tomic sitting here. He used it, and eventually it ended with force. You can see that force coming back to the Socialist Party, like a boomerang. That's how it's gonna come back to you. You won't be long. Wait till you experience it. Therefore, I ask a little tolerance, and you, Mr. President, still have a significant role to play in keeping this assembly in one normal atmosphere. It's up to you and you decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4865	The Parliament's decision has been made and must be respected and implemented. I ask Mr. Seselj's MP to respect that decision and ask him to leave the room so we can continue our work. Mr. Jovanovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4866	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is certainly one of the very difficult decisions we've made, but I can see there was no dilemma between us. The assembly must be a place to discuss responsibly, argumentarily oppose different political views, but the Assembly must not be a place to be ashamed of. I call upon the President to comply with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure shall give a period of rest necessary to establish order between the Assembly and the implementation of the Assembly's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-24-0.u4867	It is my duty and yet once again I call upon Mr Seselj as president of the parliamentary group to respect the Parliament's decision. If not, I won't give you a short, but a long break. Today's session will continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 155 MPs attend today's session. Please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Siniši Mitrovic, Dusan Golubović, Borislav Novaković, Gordani Komic, Milos Vucic, Velimir Živojnović, Aleksandr Stefanović, Anton Biacio, Istvan Ispanovic, Vuk Antonijevic, Marko Jaksic, Borisovoj Mijatovic, Jožef Kasi. Only in the morning is Leili Ruzdic and Iron Jovanovic. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Moving to 12. Point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Working Relations (in principle) The word has a People's MP Bozidar Vujic, followed by a National Envoy Milorad Mircic.
