ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13350	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. In order to determine the quorum for work, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that we do not have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly and I set a break until 11.30 p.m., and we do not have a quorum for the simple reason that not all MPs have inserted their identification cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I agree that we have the quorum and I inform them that they will be absent from the following MPs: Višnja Nežić, Milan Radulović, Goran Ćirić, Milos Lukić, Stanko Kovačević, Vojkan Tomić, Predrag Bajčetić, Radomir Naumov, Juhas Attil, Dragisa Marinković, Neda Arnerić, Kermeci Karolj, Bojan Kostreš, Vuko Antonijević, Marko Jakšić, Branko Gligorić, Milan Ernjaković, Arsen Kurjački, Željko Tomić, Jožef Kasa, Biači Anton, Natasa Milojevic and Dusan Golubović. In the morning, Cedomir Jovanovici Pal Shandor was absent. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Court (Statistics) You have received a bill submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Vukosav Tomaševic, Djordje Mamula, Slobodan Tomovic, Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic, Natasa Jovanovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic, as well as amendments submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration. National MP George Mamula, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, withdrew the amendment to Article 51. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the draft law. I remind you that after a joint principled search was concluded, under which the draft law on the regulation of courts was also discussed, the National Assembly adopted the proposal for this law in principle. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not delivered an opinion on the amendments to the draft law on the agenda of this session, on which a joint principle search has been carried out, I propose that the National Assembly, based on Article 136(5). Rules of Procedure, decide to consider the drafts of these laws without the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I would like to put to the vote the proposal that the National Assembly discusses the draft laws on the agenda of this session - points 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda, on which a common principle search has been carried out, which have been accepted in principle - without the Government's opinion on the amendments made. For 105, against 47, abstentions, 9 did not vote 6, a total of 167. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal and I am opening a review of the bill in particular. The Committee on Justice and Administration has tabled an amendment proposing that the title and the new Article 1a be added after Article 1. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Does the Committee's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee has not sent amendments to the bill in good time. The amendments, which the Committee has given us by benches three days after the start of the National Assembly session, cannot be included in the debate in particular on this five-law package, which concerns courts, judges, in general, in the area of justice. The president of the National Assembly can't ask us what to do with these amendments. These amendments cannot enter into the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they have not met the conditions under the Rules of Procedure. They were submitted after the start of a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not to bring the amendments already adopted. There is only one option - that competent committees submit amendments to the draft law during the session. This option is when a number of different amendments are adopted to the same member of the bill and the Committee has the right to propose its text to the Assembly, in line with the provisions adopted. Sometimes provisions are in collegiate, like they did with the Rules of Procedure. So it doesn't make sense, Mr. President, that something that doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure will at all be the subject of a debate at the National Assembly session. No amendment, delivered after the deadline, can be included in the debate, because the basic conditions, the conditions not to humiliate the National Assembly, do not meet. He who writes amendments to the bill is obliged to write them in good time, to hand them over in good time. Today you should have informed us that during the debate, or during the session, as is more correct, the amendment committees, which cannot be included in the debate, have arrived. If there is already a problem with holding this session, do not make them additionally by clearly violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13353	You spoke to me as President of the Assembly. You know I don't interpret the Rules of Procedure, always the Rules of Procedure interpret the Assembly. Therefore, I do not violate the Rules of Procedure, nor can I violate the Rules of Procedure by holding a session the way I run it. We have here a proposal from the Justice and Administration Committee, and if you think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm guessing Article 136, which is what the Justice and Management Committee is calling on, I can only put it on the People's MPs' statement. That's what I, of course, haven't decided before. I'm just the Rules of Procedure. (Employee Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I want to vote on it). I ask the MPs to plead to Mr Nikolic's objection that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 136. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the People's Messengers to make this complaint known. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: We will vote, but you should know that this is not a vote. It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you reject it as a material that does not conform to the Rules of Procedure. ) For 52, v. 115, abstention one, did not vote 14, a total of 182. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to declare themselves. For 116, against 11, abstention 26, was not voted 29, a total of 182. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13354	We have really taken these bill proposals seriously, regardless of how long the Assembly has not had the view whether these are serious bill proposals or not, and regardless of the obvious fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the view that these are unserious drafts of the law. And if I'm ever going to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I'm going to do it today when I say she didn't make a mistake not reviewing the amendments that the Justice Committee delivered in progress, and after the opening session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government is right that materials that do not comply with the Rules of Procedure do not want to be dealt with and do not want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. She leaves it to these legalists who run the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We tried to show the amendments to the National Assembly and the public that, in fact, it should appear, according to the Serbian Radical Party's programme, the regulation of courts, and there is no room for an appeal court. This, when the frog sees the horses weave, so lifts the leg, it's not worth it, it can't be shoeed. Thus, the appeal court cannot be included in the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia because special departments for administrative and economic disputes can be formed within all courts without new special courts being established, because it is not true that they will not call for new funding. And it is not true that it will speed up the work of the courts, that it will bring dynamics, efficiency, justice and legality; these only create the stoppers in which valuable time will be poured out, and that will prevent citizens from facing courts, that economic operators may find justice in the courts that is in this state and what is necessary. So, the SRS, of course, cannot now, explaining certain amendments, to expose the whole concept it has adhered to by working seriously on these drafts of the law, although they have a negative position of the Committee, although it is unnatural for a single branch of government to be governed by a single parliamentary group with its draft laws, if we know that for months the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Court of Serbia, various legal associations are preparing for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a serious concept of justice with all the laws that arise from this. I would ask you - and it is a good thing that a representative of the government also came to the session - we SRS MPs are interested in whether the government is suspending legal works in the area of the judiciary, whether the government is behind these draft laws, whether the parliamentary majority will vote for these laws today and, within a month, vote for the laws that, possibly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing. It's printed out with great pains and great problems. At the same time, I also warn those MPs from the opposition who think they will save some of their judges by accepting these laws that do not provide for the resolution of all judges, so to select new ones, that in the procedure which, regardless of the law, judges will be resolved and certainly be chosen new ones, similar, according to some new political schedule of forces in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now that the government has decided that its representative attends a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it would be good if this dilemma were resolved. Whether the government is behind these draft laws, whether the government continues to work, with serious work on the laws that will be regulated by the judiciary, whether this is a distraction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and has been going on for weeks, whether these laws will be valid for a month, two, five, a year, whether they will serve only to piss off judges and choose some new ones. You really should put in some seriousness. I will no longer object to the time when the session of the National Assembly begins because it is no longer worth objecting to, but I would ask you - until today we MPs of the SRS are convinced that these are not serious bill proposals. Otherwise, we would really talk about them if they turned out to be serious and the Government of the Republic of Serbia stands behind them, although it has a negative view of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13355	The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. President, I think there's been a needless fam about a law package in the area of justice. I'll try a few sentences to explain what this is about. The ministry of justice and local self-government, as a resolute competent ministry of justice affairs, formed a working group in April to draft laws on courts and judges. In this task force were, according to us, the most competent experts in this area: the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, the magistrate of Leposava Karamarkovic; Deputy President Zoran Ivosevic; President of the District Court in Belgrade, Mrs Vida Škero; Presidents of many other courts; the most respected members of the judge's society; Professor of the Faculty of Law Vesna Rakic-Vodinić. So we felt that it was necessary to include those people who work directly in the judiciary and those people who are, in addition to practical knowledge and the best theoretical experts in this area. At the head of the task force was my then deputy, Mr. Djordje Ninkovic, otherwise a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia. During May, the working group completed its work version of the law on courts and judges, a systematic, integrated text that practically included what is now contained in the four draft laws on the agenda. It was a unique text. It began and was held in July, August and September, a broad public debate. Due to the working version of the law on courts and judges, all courts, all Serbian courts, received this work version -- a number of expert consultations were held, a series of public debates throughout Serbia. The Ministry of Justice came up with various proposals, objections, suggestions, criticisms, and when we put it all together, twenty days ago a draft law was drawn up on courts and judges, which was forwarded to the Republic government and which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And then the draft was referred to an official public debate, which was due to be completed around 9th (the 20th day of that debate was on 9th November), meaning in a few days. In line with the possibilities, powers and competences of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic Assembly, the DSS Group submitted its draft laws governing issues in the field of justice. That is, therefore, the right of every member of Parliament, and even of every individual MP. You know that, by the logic of things, once they entered the procedure, they were at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, the Legislative Committee, the opinion was given by the Ministry of Justice and local self-government, the Republic Secretariat for Law, and finally, the Government itself. I'm talking, therefore, about the original version of the proposal that entered the congregation procedure. At all these levels I mentioned, that original version was rejected. However, something that is political reality needs to be accepted, and the political reality is that political coalitions have agreements. Some things, which seem to be the opposite at one point, can be achieved by a political consensus, of course, if these agreements and the consensus do not harm the interests of those to which concrete laws should apply, and in the extreme line, if this compromise and that consensus do not harm the interests of Serbian citizens. Such an agreement has been reached between the DOS parliamentary group and the DSS parliamentary group on the draft law in the area of justice. You don't have to make a big deal out of it. It may be the beginning of a new practice, but it's something suitable for parliamentary life, which exists everywhere there are political coalitions, so something that is completely normal. Under the deal, a meeting of the Justice Ministry working groups and the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group and all the fundamental things that were in the draft laws on courts and judges, working groups, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, were incorporated into the bill submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. So we came up with an integral text, which does not violate the basic meaning and the basic idea from which the working group of the Ministry of Justice, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, came, which also does not violate the meaning of the idea of which the Democratic Party of Serbia came from. The working group accepted, and this was later accepted by the government, I think about 59 amendments, whose formal proposal is the Committee on Justice and Administration, which amends the original text and harmonizes with what was heard in the public debates and which was crucial to the idea and initiative that the Government of the Republic of Serbia had in mind. So, we came to an agreement, we came to an integral text, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is agreed to continue the procedure by voting the proposed laws. Compared to the amendments, we gave an opinion...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13357	Mr. Minister, just to remind you that it's a limited time of debate for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13358	I don't think that restriction applies to members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13359	In principle, it doesn't apply, and in particular it does, for all five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13360	I'll finish it right now. I'm sorry. So, in relation to this law that is currently on the agenda, the draft law on the regulation of courts, I must say that the government considers and accepts the amendments of the Committee on Justice and Administration, not to mention members. There are 13 amendments, and some amendments to the MPs of the people, MP Djorđa Mamula; MP Slobodan Tomovic; Gordana Pop-Lazic; Aleksandra Vukic; and again Slobodan Tomovic. So that's the government's opinion. Of course, the promoter, the Committee on Justice and Parliament themselves will plead on these amendments. It is our opinion that these amendments can be accepted. I apologize if I've timed out, but I haven't carefully interpreted the rules of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13361	I thank Mr. Secretary. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to article 9. For 26, against 139, two abstentions, 12 of the 179 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Does any of the other representatives want a word? Please, the representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13362	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group is not satisfied with the explanation given by the government's representative, the minister of justice, and I think the minister of justice should at least be concerned that everything we do here is in accordance with the law. I suppose his job is to keep all the procedures that take place in Serbia, as far as the judiciary is concerned, in accordance with the law. I accept, regarding this amendment, of course, that there are agreements within not only the coalitions, but even parties on the opposite sides, and that is normal parliamentary life. Deals must be time-consuming. There was a deal here that was reached when the time for the agreement on this project was up. This session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia began on October 22nd, the last deadline for amendments was October 19th. When you agreed, these draft laws should be withdrawn from the agenda, for us or for the government or any other authorised proposing to submit new draft laws, to which the Committee would give amendments or would already be included in the proposal coming before the Assembly. But I warn you, the Justice Committee has submitted these amendments after the session of the National Assembly, before discussing these laws, which you have agreed to. No one could have done that anymore. You see, now that the draft law is under discussion, the Committee could, on a concrete draft law, give an amendment that would bring some already accepted amendments into line. It's a provision of article 145, it's quite clear. A new amendment may arise during the review of the proposal, but only if it proves that something that has already been adopted is in line. What the Government accepts is that we here hurt the Rules of Procedure that we're working on, that's what we MPs shouldn't do, will remain recorded in history. We determine these laws how the courts work. We determine these laws how judges will work, and we pass the laws in an illegal manner. We are authorized to pass laws, as the judge is authorized to deliver judgments or resolutions, but only in established procedures and in a legally established manner. It's not just the rule of law. The rule of law is also in accordance with the law. These laws can't be changed today by amendments, it's too late. The Service of the National Assembly had to dismiss the amendments of the Committee on Justice as untimely. Amendments of the Committee on Justice shall not be considered at all. Please don't do such drastic damage to the Rules of Procedure. The majority of the congregation does not help. They can't break the laws with the congregation's majority. I can do it today, tomorrow, in five days. One day someone will ask - how was it done, why did you do it in addition to the Rules of Procedure? Where is this chairman of the Justice Committee, professor of law school? How will he teach his students tomorrow what is the law, what is justice, what is the right? Will he tell them - it doesn't matter what the law says, when you have a congregation majority, do whatever you want and do whatever you want. Then no more accusing the former regime of these proceedings. That kind of procedure as a criticism is more like being thrown out of your vocabulary. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is impossible to amend this law to the amendments of the Justice Committee. We can make amendments to the MPs, who have entered the procedure and who would eventually accept the legislator. We can't do this. Don't do this, the public is watching. (President: Time. ) Having a majority does not give you the right. Don't let the force catch you so much. None of that means anything in five days, ten, fifteen, a year or two. This kind of drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure, when you came to power, you didn't find it in the previous regime. This wasn't possible in dictatorship, as you call it. This is now possible in democracy. Well, there's something wrong, something doesn't add up. I repeat again, because of a public not well informed by a government official, we are talking today about amendments that could not enter the procedure. It will also have to be stated by someone who interprets and our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13363	The word has a minister of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13364	Just one brief answer to Ambassador Tomislav Nikolic. The government responded to the content, the essence, the solutions, the crucial things. The government can't handle the congregation procedure. It's not the Parliament's accounts to the government, it's the other way around. So, I don't have the authority, and I can't, and I can't, I can't do the procedure, if it's done in a manner that's right. I was saying that the solutions, which occurred by harmonising two versions, two initiatives, two drafts, two proposals, are compatible. Of course, the congregation and its bodies decide according to the Rules of Procedure and thus the Government neither will nor can nor need to deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13365	Can I conclude from this that you have made a positive statement on the amendments of the Justice Committee? Yeah. ) Is there anyone else reporting regarding the amendment submitted by Mr. Vukic? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 128, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the committee legally possible. The government has accepted this amendment. That makes the amendment an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the committee legally possible. The government has accepted this amendment. That makes the amendment an integral part of the bill. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a shame that the session has left, still current, Justice Minister Vladan Batic. His appearance today at the National Assembly session, with a delay of more than 10 days, is the skill of swimming by water. Because, as your press releases say, Vladan Batic, by someone, and perhaps the legislator of this law, in agreement with the coalition and partners, will be released down the water. His nebulous explanations that the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepted or did not accept any of these amendments... (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. ) Ma'am or Miss, what the topic is you need to look at when submitting a proposal for the agenda and for a session of the National Assembly and when studying materials. Do not speak to me and to the MPs of the SRS what is the topic, for those of us who are seriously preparing for the sessions, we humbly submit amendments to all your draft laws and are seriously preparing to defend the attitude and concept of the SRS. When it comes to the amendment to Article 12, which I have submitted, it is in line with the insistence of Serbian radicals that we must not allow at all, and we are in favour of codifying and unifying the judicial system under our programme and our concept, to create some special courts, although it is written in the constitutional arrangement of Dr Zorica Radovic. So in the amendment to Article 12, I ask that the words "rounding" are deleted: "and trade courts", because we believe that within the framework of regular municipal and district courts there can be established departments for economic crimes and there is no need for certain special courts to be established for this area. Especially because it cannot be proposed, and this is Mr. Dejan Mihajlov (he is the promoter, again contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly) to assure us that the establishment of special, special courts is necessary and that there is no need for additional budgetary resources, because it is quite obvious and the layman is clear that huge budgets will be needed for the establishment of these special courts and because we know in advance that, even with the current situation in the judiciary, the minister of justice intends to, with your help, you who form a majority coalition in this assembly, leave over 200 judges in this country without work. It is not possible for anyone to believe that even in these courts people will not work morally similar to DOS, as in the darkest communist times, even worse than in Joseph Broz's time. We are absolutely incomprehensible that we are here discussing a set of laws, which Dejan Mihajlov has submitted, in particular, and that we do not have the government's opinion, to fall in when he wants to go, or already, the Minister of Justice, you will already agree on it, to tell us - the government has accepted or not accepted, and then he, as a great legal expert, as someone who understands the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, says - well, we will accept the amendments submitted by the Committee of Justice and Administration, and someone should, and this is the President of the National Assembly, to remind him when the deadline for the amendment was due. One more thing, during the debate on the set of these laws tabled by MP Dejan Mihajlov, you will see that only four SRS MPs speak in detail and have amendments to these laws. This is because, under the orders of National Assembly Secretary Georgi Maric, on three occasions, any attempt by the authorised representative of the SRS has been rejected to submit authentic amendments to all 23 Serbian Radicals MPs. Because, as a well-known expert in the field of geography, Mr. Georgia Maric even dealt with whether or not someone's signature was authentic, so he received a letter from the deputy president of our party, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, informing him that he and that member were the representatives of the amendment and the MP of the SRS. (President: Time. ) However, this expert, Georgia Maric, said - not that radical, and the competent service did not accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13367	Is anyone answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 13, contrary to 124 abstentions, he did not vote 41, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee has tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new Article 12a be added after Article 12. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Prime Minister has declared that he accepts the amendment and thus becomes an integral part of the bill. The National MP Vukosav Tomašević submitted to the 16th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. He's pulling it. I find that the amendment has been withdrawn. The National MP Vukosav Tomašević submitted to the 19th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. We have no government opinion here. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 134 against 13, the abstentions were not voted 32, a total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has tabled an amendment to Article 20. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Prime Minister accepted the amendment and thus became an integral part of the bill. To Article 20. Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Vukosav Tomasevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 128, against 11, a abstentioned one, was not voted 40, a total of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. To Article 20. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the very moment when all these laws, including the one currently being considered in particular, have entered the procedure there are a number of not only formal discrepancies, but the shortcomings that will one day ensure that the Constitutional Court suspends all these laws. But the congregation's majority today decides it's black and white black, and we're all prisoners of the congregation's majority, which apparently does what they want. We have tried to convince you in principle that these laws will not lead to your judiciary being neither more effective, nor more rational, that it will be much more expensive for anyone who wants to achieve justice, so in that sense my amendment - because in Article 20, I suggest that after point 7. (and Article 20 deals with the jurisdiction of the district court) adds all that you have proposed as jurisdiction of the trade court. We, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, are against the establishment of special courts, because we find this very expensive for the poor Serbian state, taking care of it, but also of all that is in the jurisdiction of these trade courts, and of how many they will be, and where their seats will be -- citizens will be much more expensive and more difficult to see justice, which they will seek before these courts, and come. We have been informed here by Minister Batic that the drafts of all these laws on courts and judges have become an integral text of this proposal, (fantomically), the Democratic Party of Serbia, although there is virtually no legitimate proposing, and we have found this, but the majority of judges have not accepted it either - since the draft laws on courts and judges prepared by the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, were also attended by the Supreme Court and the President of the District Court and Prof. Vesna Rakic-Vodinlic, I really suggest that Dejan Mihajlov be elected to all these functions because he is obviously a man who should then also be president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and a district court and professor of Law School. And I'm sorry that the minister isn't here to tell him that he missed a real chance, which he's probably never going to have again in his life -- that he's going to be the one to explain and defend such important system laws. Only rare ministers are given the opportunity to participate in making such important laws as these laws. He gave this opportunity to Mr. Michael, and it is obvious that the minister himself has acknowledged all the issues of political trade. We have already said in the principle debate that by Monday, that is, until today, until the session, when it is due to decide on the law in particular, Vojislav Kostunica and Zoran Djindjic will invite Serbs to go to the elections. It was the subject of the store. If they do so to this day, these laws will pass, and these laws will not pass. We're all witnessing that on Saturday, the Serbs were invited to go to the polls, even though we filed a motion...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13369	Please talk about amendments and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13370	The amendments and the judiciary, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13371	I don't know where you found the connection to the elections in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13372	So, when the National Assembly declares this, we as the national representatives can only decide, on behalf of our people, whether it is the interest of this country to have Serbs vote in Kosovo or not. The responsibility was taken over by both governments and the president of the state, and the consequences will be borne by all but historical responsibility by them alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13373	Is anyone else answering... Here you go. Yes, it is. I gave a little to Tommy, but you represent the MP's group (repeated to MP Vukic), here you go, never mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the intention of the Proposer of this amendment is in this... (louds - bad), intent is good, but you don't understand. The intention is such that the complete structure proposed by the law on the regulation of courts should be amended. So, we believe that they are unnecessaryly specialised courts and that we should therefore redistribute the jurisdiction of the courts, something changed in relation to what we once had, but in this sense we no longer have economic, or commercial courts, and that this jurisdiction should be taken over by district courts. In which, of course, an incomparably higher jurisdiction would be again in the municipal courts, not such a reduction and giving of first-degree proceedings to the jurisdiction of the district courts to the greatest extent, as was done by the draft of these laws. So that's the proposal of this amendment. Of course, this law would lose its meaning, which is our intention, because we consider this bill a bad one. Because we do not consider it reformal, but anti-reformal, and I urge you to accept this amendment by the MP of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13375	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 124, one abstention, 29 did not vote, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this amendment by voting. For 25, against 122 abstentions, there were no 30 votes, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. A representative of the government has accepted the amendment. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've talked about this before. So, my amendment is to delete Article 22, which is an attempt and a desire to have sole courts of general jurisdiction within regular courts, not so-called specialised courts. We expect and hope that in this way we can better protect citizens' rights incomparably, guarantee them the right to judicial protection, than that was the case, if you will, so far. We believe that there is no need for the introduction of specialised courts, but that it is possible to lead special departments in regular courts of general jurisdiction. We think it would be incomparable not only more efficient and better for our citizens, but it would be incomparably more profitable and rational. In fact, I can't understand that bill, which, by constantly creating new specialized courts, we're going to have to spend a lot more money on both the court staff and the judges and everything else that goes with it. So, what's going to have to be cut out of the budget without giving any relief to the citizens. That's why we think that this bill, which we're carrying out here, is more accurate and we think it would be good to accept something like that. I'm still in debt, and I hope no one takes 3,000 dinars out of my pocket, two sentences to say, because some people like to invent, and they're not in this assembly when they're talking about the results of local elections. Serbian Radical Party Notes Growth in September Elections But I don't know what's laughing about those who've recorded a 50% drop, we've seen growth, and it's almost in all the municipalities where... [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13377	I'm asking you to stick to the subject, but even when you come out of it to bring out facts and data, not dreams.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13378	The facts and the data and I'm telling you, but you can't count, because we didn't go to half the polls with the candidates. Don't count those candidates, just where we went out. That's the point. And that's facts and data, and what you're saying is not facts. I'm sorry to bother you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13379	Just keep it up, we'll be happy. If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 131 abstentions, there was no vote of 26, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee for Justice and Administration submitted the amendment with correction to Article 22. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government has accepted the amendment. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administrations has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment that I have submitted to Article 23, requesting that it be deleted, concerns the jurisdiction of the High Court of Commerce. He just continued the consistency of our view of this law, given that by the previous amendment, if you followed my efforts to explain it to you, you asked that everything placed in the jurisdiction of the trade court be transferred to the jurisdiction of the district court. So, without this specialized court. Now I ask that a member who speaks of the jurisdiction of the senior court be deleted, because if that amendment had been adopted, this one would have to be deleted as well. In view of the fact that a decision on disputes so far in the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice is put in place in the jurisdiction of the district courts, the second-degree resolution authority would be the Supreme Court. This is just an extension of that amendment that I previously explained, which the congregation majority refused.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13381	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 126, there were no abstentions, no 32, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13382	Article 24. The bill says it defines the jurisdiction of Serbia's administrative court. The SRS, therefore, which is only an extension of that amendment to Article 12 that I explained earlier, is for the abolition of these specialised courts. We believe that it is not an adequate situation, nor what will yet happen to the government's officials in Serbia after the establishment of such special courts. A real disaster, when you're going to have to raise taxes to the sky, which you've already raised to a degree of impatience, to finance the establishment of such specialized courts. We believe that existing economic courts should be abolished and regular courts should judge in their regular procedures. So, there should only be two-degree courts, and only extremely, in giving the most serious crimes, three-degree courts. We also believe that the Department of Administrative Disputes, with already already engaged judges, who for many years, and some even a few decades (if they are not on the list for the dismissal of Minister Batic), would work on administrative disputes -- so that they could satisfy the function of the department and that the unnecessarily founding of Serbia's special administrative court is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13383	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 26, against 129 abstentions, there was no vote of 25, a total of 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed this amendment to add a third position, which says that the Serbian Supreme Court will decide to appeal to the rulings of the district court, as a first-degree court, for the simple reason that we are in favour of non-existentness, i.e., non-introduction of new so-called. appeal courts, because we think it will only create new problems and, without delay, chaos in our judiciary. We think it is unnecessary in this way to exempt one of Serbia's Supreme Court's basic powers and what by nature things should belong to him. We think that this is an incomparable better solution, as well as just creating new appeals courts, as well as specialised courts for administrative disputes and trade courts, will create additional financial difficulties, additional financial problems, and therefore I urge you to accept this. And I would ask you, Mr. President, that is, we have sent you the text of our resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm saying this because it was possible to adopt certain amendments to the Justice Committee. If that was possible, I think this is incomparably important for our people at this point and that we should see after which points, but as soon as possible, that resolution should be put on the agenda, because we think it's time for the National Assembly, especially after its declaration has been stamped out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13385	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 25, against 124 abstentions, there were no, no 30 votes, a total of 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 26th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13386	This amendment and Article 26 are tied up, which is being passed through a full set of laws, for the Law establishing a High Council of Justice, which has been mentioned in the principle debate on the draft law in the area of justice, MP Dejan Mihajlov. The Serbian Radical Party believes that it is an absolutely unacceptable explanation, as well as the establishment of a high council of justice, in particular the explanation given by the promoter, which is that in the existing Constitution (which you intend to change through the concept of seeing Serbia and regionalisation, according to Dr Zorica Radovic) there are some gaps under which it was made, in fact, it wants to fix the existing constitution, until a new, such a bill is passed. The High Council of Justice, as some special expert body, reportedly independent of the legislative and executive branch of power, should propose to MPs, the National Assembly, judges for all courts in the state and for these new, specialised ones, which you set up. Now we are convinced by Dejan Mihajlov, and the entire DSS parliamentary group, that these will be people of high professional, high moral, etc. However, given the way in which you DOS MPs elected judges a month and a few days ago, we are absolutely certain that this kind of staffing will continue in this special body that you want to establish by special law, and in Article 26. I ask that it be deleted. We are absolutely certain that it will not be a special body, a high council of justice, that it will be independent of political decisions and of staffing within the majority coalition, because it says that the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the minister of justice are also members of the High Council of Justice. And now someone to convince us here that Vladan Batic is not going around and running around Serbia almost every day all municipal and county courts, watching which judges are similar, which they are not. And then in the DOS press headlines, such as the "go regime" (probably thinks of judges who tried and did their job back 10, 20 and 30 years). And who are these new ones that you will appoint, and who are those who passed through your personnel lists a month ago? We've seen that these are people who barely, after who knows how many years of study, have graduated from law school. Some did not spend a single day in court, so on the same day they were appointed judge and on the same day even appointed presidents of municipal courts. Those who physically rebelled against women, those who used various machinations and malfeasances, and then we should accept your proposal to establish some special body, some new DOS politburo, in which they will sit next to each other Leposava Karamarkovic and Vladan Batić, imagine that combination, to watch who these people are and then propose to the National Assembly. He's been a little hasty about Dejan Mihajlov proposing this high-level council of justice and with this concept. If the current Constitution is such, if the already existing role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legislative authority is to, on the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration, which is likely to be attended by some experts in the field of legal science, to search and adopt proposals for the presidents of the courts and for high judicial functions in our country, then it is possible for someone to tell us that we need a special body and how it is possible for someone to convince us that it will be absolutely independent, when we know that all those who are the extended hand of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the DOS regime are sitting there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13387	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 127, there were no abstentions, no 30, a total of 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13388	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to remind you, if there's anyone on the Legislative Committee who can't accept my amendment at all, he can only say that he is legally possible or not legally possible, learn some rules and start working in accordance with those rules. This amendment, relating to Article 31, is a continuation of my consistent attempt to appear anywhere where an appeal court appears and a senior trade court seeks to delete or amend that member. This article discusses the work of the court department and the session of all judges, the second point says that district court, court of appeal and senior court are also considering issues of importance for the work of the district courts. Since with two previous amendments, I tried to convince you that the appeals and senior trade courts were too high, I had to intervene with the amendment in this Article 31, and of course the fate of this amendment is known, just like those two previous amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13389	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 122, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken by 31, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government accepted the amendment, thus becoming an integral part of the bill. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13390	In Article 34, which states that in the district courts and the Court of Appeals, there is a crime department against the economy and unity of the Yugoslav market and the labour dispute department, I assumed that the words "and in the Court of Appeal" were deleted, for the simple reason that we would like the Court of Appeal not to exist at all and that this would be incomparably simpler, much more rational, more profitable, more economical solution for our judiciary, for our budget, and if you will for our people in general. I'm going to try to convince you one more time, and that's based on the reasons that I suggested. The promoter himself said, among other things, that here is not only a legal issue, but a financial nature, where there will be major problems with the creation of not only two new specialised courts, the existence of another former specialised court, but also the introduction of appeals courts, and because of judicial staff, and because of the new judges, and because of everything else that he carries with him these costs, and I think that it would be much better, especially in such a difficult period when people barely make ends meet, when they are hard to live, that we avoid it and that such things are not being created now. Especially because, in a legal sense, this does not represent essential reforms, on the contrary, I think it would be an incomparable better solution, to accept this amendment and to avoid the creation of appeals courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13391	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 123 abstentions, there were no 34 votes, a total of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 36 of the 1st Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13392	In Article 36. The SRS, through the amendment that I have submitted, has stated its position that so far there has been an unwarranted existence of the jury judge's institute. We believe that this should be deleted and the jury should be abolished because, in practice so far, this has not been shown to be justified because they only provided the public in some way during the trial, and they have not, nor would they in future have any effect on the decision-making by the competent court in the course of the trial. Therefore, we believe that the resources allocated to jury judges, and they are not so small a number, can be significantly better used in our courts to correct the material status of judges, in municipal and county courts, and thus be better used. But this jury judge institute, in addition to not justifying its current function, would not have achieved, in any case, what the motionr's intention is to make the courts work more efficiently and better, and that is why I suggest that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13393	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13394	The SRS is in favour of professionalising the judiciary. Of course, the largest number of judges who have ever performed their duties are honest and honest people, who have not repented of the law, but have helped to implement it. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, though, was first to be removed, since the seat and position of the jury judge guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, changed that. But we've already had many other violations of the Constitution, and our Republic and the Federation, and this wouldn't be the first time and it wouldn't be as strict and obvious as it was in some other cases. We think it would be incomparable to carry out the full professionalisation of the judiciary, and thus the responsibility and obligations of those who perform judicial functions would be even greater than that of today. And that is why I invite you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13395	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, there were no 124 abstentions, no 33, a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 39th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does Mr. Nikolic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although I have another amendment when I will have the opportunity to talk about this bill, I would like to point out what bothered me in this bill, which is why I am against it and why we have tried to make amendments to this bill - even though we were aware that the committees rejected it, that the government rejected it, that his fate was uncertain, because you didn't cooperate as well as you did today - we still fix it. So, in this law, it's no good that special courts are established, you're going to choose a judge for a trade court, a judge for an appeal court, so he's going to be a judge who deals exclusively with one, or one branch of justice, and he's going to become specialists. I don't think we need that, that the judge has to judge in any dispute that would appear before him. Furthermore, you provided for Article 20 of the district court to conduct proceedings for the issuing of accused and convicted persons, for the execution of criminal convictions by foreign courts. Further, Art. On 23rd and 37rd, you provided that the senior trade court judges in the first proceedings, and since the Supreme Court of Serbia does not have a trade department under Article 37, I am interested in who in the second degree will decide on the decision of the senior court, which is first-degree. That's not what the promoter was thinking. Further, Art. 71, 72, and 73, you've provided for a court watch, which is past the Home Affairs Act. You allowed a court guard to use a physical force, a rubber bat, and even a weapon, when he estimated otherwise that he could not refuse an attack on a judicial authority building. I think it is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but it will certainly be given the opinion of those who should warn us, not only serve you and provide you with the majority. My last remark concerns the financing of justice and the stories of an independent judiciary. You know, as long as you have (even with this bill, which goes beyond all others), the resources for the work of the courts are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia decides on these funds - when you have no judicial budget then you have no independence of judges - then there is no talking about the courts being independent. It will depend on how much money they will receive from the budget, and the money from the budget is only given to those who are at the mercy of the authorities, the mercy of those who decide on the money in the budget. Let me get this straight; there was no expertise here, nor was it as well understood as we were being reported here. These are the proposals for the law of the Yugoslav Left. The proposals are not the laws of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I combed the notes on the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, combed my notes in the Serbian Parliament from earlier periods, and these proposals were submitted by Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic, who was the justice minister as a member of the JUL. Dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is pure JUL's law. What JUL could not do at a time when he ruled Serbia in one way, does now that he is ruling Serbia in another way, through the Democratic Party of Serbia, and you are all involved in this. The minister's name was Dragoljub Jankovic, and that's why the bill ended up in pieces. Had he been from the Socialist Party of Serbia, dear Mr. Ivkovic, we might have looked at the bill, but since it was proposed by someone from JUL, we threw it away. You're taking him out now, he's been in the trash for three or four years. The idea is good, JUL's, and I wish you good luck in implementing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13397	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 24, against 122, there were no abstentions, no 36 votes, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 44 by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13398	Ladies and gentlemen, this article of 44, which is in the section concerning education and the management of the judicial departments, is not particularly important, that the position of Article 44(2) of the Law on Judges and your claim that the judge may be a man who has no working experience in the court, and here you predict that, let's say, the Secretary of the Supreme Court of Serbia can be the only one who meets the conditions for a judge of the Court of Justice. The secretary of any institution, any business organisation, can be a graduate lawyer with this many or so years of work experience, but that you are building on the opportunity here to perform this function by fulfilling the conditions for a judge of the Court of Appeal, it is absolutely pointless, especially since the previous amendments also referred to the fact that the Court of Appeal should be completely expelled from the concept of court order. I had to intervene first of all for this reason in this article of the bill, and the explanation is this which you heard. The judge, therefore, and so far we have seen until this law was passed, could have been someone who has never worked in court, who has studied for 10 years, with very low grades, although there have been candidates for the same courts, people who have a certain working experience in the lower or the same court - those who are morally - politically similar, and even in this law, you enter such a provision. This will be the subject of considering some other amendments, that judges must have one special quality, and that quality cannot be interpreted differently. You say dignity. What's dignity? That's a really broad question, because what's worthy of you doesn't have to be worthy of me. For me, it's unworthy that the National Assembly has for President Dragan Marsicani, but it does. It is unworthy to have for President Vojislav Kostunica, but the state holds Vojislav Kostunica as president. Thus, those who decide on judges, on the basis of some of their own criteria, will decide whether or not these judges are worthy of that function.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13399	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 128, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken by 31, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 123 abstentions, there were no 35 votes, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment to Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13400	As all these laws proposed by MP Dejan Mihajl are confusing and incompatible, so the confusion appears in almost all provisions and members, as well as in this law on the regulation of courts. Article 51 discusses the work and jurisdiction of the court secretary, and it is written that it puts us in a dilemma whether all courts who have more than 20 judges can have a court secretary or only those who have over 20 judges. The promoter was not at all clear when he suggested something like this in the work of the court secretary. There are clear provisions here that all the court secretary can do, who proposes it, help the president of the court, but we really don't understand whether the court secretary can have those courts that have over 20 judges. Why should a lower limit be made for what one court needs and has a judge to have a court secretary, if the law already sets out to specify what the court secretary can do?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13401	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted 23, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13402	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 59, paragraph 3 of the proposed Law, it is said that the championship has candidates who have completed law school with a high average rating. The essence of my amendment is that we still have some criterion of what it is that is a high average, so I, by proposing the amendment, have said that it is 8 and above, given that 8.5 is already considered an excellent average. I believe that some average that would not be below 8 and is not suitable for trainees to receive and later train for such important jobs as in the judiciary. That's the point. It's more a matter of technical nature and a matter of criteria than something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13403	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 43, against 111, three abstentions, were not voted 28, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 59, paragraph 2 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 24, against 124 abstentions, there were no, no 36 votes, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13404	Ladies and gentlemen, I will read article 66, whose erasure I sought and explained why. "The ministry responsible for the judiciary keeps a personal list for every judge, judge of the jury and employee in the court. The data contained in the personal paper shall be forwarded to the Ministry by the President of the Court and shall be responsible for their accuracy, as well as the person to which the data relate, if it has made them known. Data contained in the personal list are official secrets and can only be used for the purpose of applying this law and the law governing the position of judges," and I say for the purpose of various blackmails. I consider the competent state authority to record all citizens, so so is the judge, the department of the MUP. Also, the Labour Act regulates what everything needs to contain employee documentation and it is absolutely inappropriate to introduce such personal papers for all judicial employees, especially when it comes to what the personal list contains. I can't find a member right now, but, let's say, it's up to the fourth knee of what someone in your family is doing to you. According to the draft law, the MUP should do these jobs, not the Ministry of Justice, which would thus be able to blackmail judges, especially as it is proposed that the minister of justice decides what will be an integral part of that personal list. So, he can ask for the personal list to write and whether a judge prefers blacks or blondes, sweeter or bitterer coffee, whom he greets in the morning, according to which the political party has sympathy, which is the ultimate goal, I suppose, of leading such a personal list. Since our future independent judges will have quite a fear in costumes if anyone else will come up with some information about them, they will practice first thing in the morning to come to the President of the Court and tell what they did the previous day, who they met by the way to the court, who they talked to and what they talked about, and then on the President of the Court that it was nice, like UDB, to put it in that personal sheet and deliver it to the Minister of Justice. Will the Minister of Justice abuse it? It will be safe. We see what kind of hack is now leading against 200 judges of regular courts of general jurisdiction, judge of offense. We see how in advance some people are accused of some crimes that are not even under investigation, let alone verdicts. The judiciary is in general chaos, under great pressure from the Ministry of Justice, i.e. executive authorities, the entire government. These laws only go to the judge's even worse position. It wasn't me in their skin, let them know how they know and know. Those who are brave will endure. Those who are not, will approach the judge's court, will go a little bit with Sorosh's money in Switzerland, Canada, America, a little bit to Zlatibor and Kopalnik, and I guess that's how this difficult time for Serbia to live and work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13405	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 26, against 127, there were no abstentions, no 32 votes, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 67. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13406	The Legislative Committee is right when it says that the amendment is legally possible, because the proposed solutions in the law are not legally possible, at least not in one normal legal order. In fact, we propose this amendment to delete Article 67 which speaks of the contents of the personal list. You know that the competent state record authority is all citizens, including those employed by courts, the MUP, and the Labour Act regulates what should be contained in the employee records. In this way we spread what we called secondary legislation and in several laws we regulate matter that would be uniquely regulated by those laws. It is completely unnecessary, completely inappropriate, neither the place, nor the time, to find something like this, and it is particularly interesting when it comes to the contents of the personal list, to say that it must contain a list of blood relatives in the right line and on the sideline to the fourth degree of relatedness, and Tasby relatives in the right line, who work in the judiciary, state administration or lawyers, data on the movement of spouses in service, etc. It's really amazing! I can't understand that anyone can vote for such legal norms and for such proposed solutions. So I call upon you to accept what I have pointed out, because we already have this resolved by positive laws, above all by the Labour Act. You know who keeps records, not only of employees, but of all citizens. I don't understand what this would be for, except for making some new files, as something that should serve as a threat to the fear of anyone who is insubordination. I can't understand at all why a new person, with such a content, would need to be required, unless the promoter not only wants to introduce secondary legislation, wants to do so and to fully introduce obedient and political similarity into our judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13407	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We don't have a government statement. Does a representative of the government want a word? No, the amendment is accepted. () Since the government has accepted it becomes an integral part... You're not a proposing, you're nothing. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, 108 against, the abstention of four, was not voted 29, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 67. Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamula. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does a representative of the government want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Government accept this amendment? Acceptance. ) So I realize that this amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The MP (retracts the amendment). I find that the amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 79th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13408	Since at the end of this bill that one group of legal experts submitted to JUL, then submitted to the second JUL, in July, and then submitted to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, counting on three times to collect the same job, since you are able to discuss amendments to the judicial committee delivered eight days after the launch of the National Assembly session, I ask the National Assembly - how can it work so peacefully today and to consider the laws that you all were against yesterday. I wrote to the Assembly on November 1st of this year, in good time, and asked the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to ensure the implementation of its decisions, so I don't believe that these laws will also be implemented because they are made by the Assembly whose decisions are no longer respected. Let me remind you: on 31 May of this year unanimously, and only two decisions have been made unanimously in this meeting, we have made the Declaration on Kosovo and Metohija (put into the agenda past the Rules of Procedure, and we have all agreed with it), in which we have established the obligations of both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and international organisations on what will happen if Hans Hekerup offers the Constitution of Kosovo and Metohija. That's where we said we didn't accept the constitution of Kosovo and Metohija...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13409	Mr. Nikolic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13410	In time, I wrote to the president of the National Assembly, asked that we take responsibility here for the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, since the government was not yet unique in the position of whether elections would come out. Meanwhile, your representatives have called on Serbs to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, and have trampled the National Assembly Declaration since 31 May of this year. We need to talk openly about this today, not to hide our eyes from each other, to look each other in the eye, that you who have accepted it say why you are doing it, that we who do not accept it say why we should not do it, and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the only one empowered to change its declaration, or to accept that someone no longer respects it, makes a decision on whether Serbs will accept Hans Hekerup's constitution, whether Serbs will go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13411	Mr. Nikolic, since you're not sticking to the subject despite my warning, I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13412	If that's all it's about, here's the deal, I'll take it from you right now, but this is what I'm talking about so much more important. If that is so good, what you have directed the Serbian people, why do you not allow a word of this to be said in the National Assembly, that this idea is propagated among the citizens of Serbia, especially among Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. If that's a shame and if that decision is wrong, don't stop me from getting fines. Keep that decision from being implemented further. Ask your representatives on the DOS committee why they call on Serbs to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. It's more important now than these laws, which, by God, is written by a lawyer-experiencer. I can't believe that -- that today these laws are more important to you than what fate is being solved for both Kosovo and Metohija, and I know -- and for the Serbian people. So, please, step on your rules of procedure, once again and again, to open a debate on what is most important for Serbia at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13413	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 23, against 131 abstentions, there was no vote of 25, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The People's MP Alexander Vukic submitted to the 80th Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13414	I just hope you don't recruit me as your previous speaker. So I submitted an amendment to Article 80, which was related to the previous amendment to Article 79. This is our last attempt to disabling the creation of a new specialised court, administrative court and the creation of a new appeal court, especially because we felt that jurisdiction between the municipal, district and the Supreme Court of Serbia had to be shared differently, and because we felt that it was also necessary for administrative and legal matter to regulate the departments within the courts of general jurisdiction, so general jurisdiction, not specialised courts. We, by this amendment, once again advocate the unification of our judicial system and show our programme commitment to the absence of special, or specialised courts. After this comes the final provisions and I don't think there are any amendments to this law anymore. In any case, I call on all those who would like real reforms in the judiciary, not those that need to be reforms for television and for our radio programmes and news columns, but what will provide our citizens with better judicial protection (something that will make us not have incomparably greater financial costs, as we have in the proposal for this law, in the regulation of courts), I call on you to accept our amendment, if you have not already wanted to accept the debate on the proposal for our resolution for Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13415	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Alexander Vukic. For 22, against 125, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 31, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that it is the same legally possible. Does the government accept? Acceptance. ) This amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the review of the Bill's proposal in particular and the amendment decision, does the Proposer want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13416	I'm putting a vote on the draft law on the regulation of courts, in general. For 136, against 23, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, out of a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the regulation of courts. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE JUDGMENTS (specificities) You have received the bill submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Đorđe Mamula, Dragan Tomic, Dragan Todorovic, Zoran D. Nikolic, Zoran Radovanovic, Đura Lazic, Tomislav Nikolic, Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Aleksandar Vukic, as well as amendments submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. At a session of the Legislative Committee, MP Dragan Tomic withdrew the amendment to Article 64. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the draft law. You have also heard the opinion of the Government's representative on the submitted amendments to the Committee on Justice and Administration. Since the National Assembly, having concluded a joint principled search under which the proposal for a law on judges has been discussed, has adopted the proposal for this law in principle, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if Serbia were now to be established, so that it starts with this law, this member could be acceptable. The law must be incorporated into laws already in force in the Republic of Serbia. The law on how much pay he will be to judge and whether it will be enough for him to live and be independent, to be sure, he and his family already exist. It's the salaries of the state authorities. You can't use this bill to determine any obligations to the Law of Payments in the State Authorities. Simply, the judge will have as much salary as he has the right to under the Law on Salary in State Authorities. If you want this member to be valid, then the Law on Salary in State Authorities must first be amended, decisions on judges deleted, a new law on salaries in the judiciary adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You know that pay ranges, pay categories are determined, and then this law gives guidance on what these ranges will look like, what their wages will be. This way, if the salary is determined by law according to the criteria laid down in this law, it can't. No, the judge's salary is clear, and it's clear what are the coefficients for judges of municipal, county courts. Of course, appeals, trades did not exist, so it was necessary to change the Law of Salaries in the State Authorities immediately, because if you choose judges of the Court of Appeal next month, they have no salary. Their salary is not foreseen by any law currently in force in the Republic of Serbia. All of this had to be taken into account, so you had to have a bill to work on by the Justice Department, to bring it in line with all the other laws, not to be made by laymen and volunteers, philanthropists, as they seem to need to look at one bill. I ask you to accept this amendment, because it is incompatible to bring into conflict two laws, especially not to bring it into conflict with a law that already exists. I understand that we have some draft law, so once we adopt this, that we amend this bill, but this assembly meeting has already worked on the Law of Salaries in the State Authorities, that should have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13418	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 43, against 98, uzjena three, they did not vote 32, a total of 176. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that the SRS has advocated the adoption of a single law that would regulate this matter, because this was not necessary to split and divide into five particular laws. But here, in accordance with the SRS programme, we have submitted an amendment, for those who do not have a law on their part, to Article 5, which says that in the procedure, which has been committed for a criminal offence committed in the exercise of judicial duty, the judge cannot be detained without the approval of the National Assembly. We predicted that he could not be detained without the approval of the authority who elected him to office, first of all because we advocated that the National Assembly not all judges, but only the Supreme Court judges and judges of the Constitutional Court, as the highest court in the Republic, and that everything else - and thus we would provide incomparably greater independence in the entire judicial system, that this does not seem to be on the proposal of the Supreme Court, or of any other body, in which the Ministry of Justice plays a significant role, i.e. the executive authorities, but we consider that independence is best provided - the judges themselves of the Supreme Court, as people who enjoy the highest reputation, the highest dignity in the exercise of judicial functions. So they choose judges, colleagues, and no one else can interfere with them, no one can influence their decision, no one can make a different decision. That is why we believe that this solution in this case is better and that we are also achieving greater protection, and therefore we are dispensing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from one job, which is essentially not supposed to be hers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13420	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 113, a self-absorbed one, did not vote 34, a total of 169. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13421	The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, but thus does not consider it necessary to adopt the amendment, MPs of the parliamentary majority and those who have joined this proposal of the JUL Law. Article 7 states, and I request that the amendment delete, "the judges have, in order to protect their interests, the right to join themselves as judges, to take measures to protect and maintain their independence and independence". The judge's office and role are defined under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws of our country and it is absolutely unacceptable to put such a provision in the Law on Judges, because we already have something called the Soros Fund, so on. Association of the Association of Judges of Serbia. And if you look at how many members of this Soros Association, which is directly funded from the Soros Fund and that propagates everything that the SRS is strongly opposed to, if you look at how many judges were in that society's membership last year, up to the five-octobaric coup, and how many are now, you will see that there is an unprecedented terror over judges in municipal and county courts across the country. As it is done in municipal courts in Šumadia, as it is done in the Kragujevac District Court, it is such a situation throughout the country, that people are literally forced to stay in the post, to be members of the Soros Association - the Serbian Judges Society. You know that one of the main activists of this society and one of the main organizers of some seminars was also the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs. Leposava Karamarkovic, and you know that we have firmly opposed it. When you look at how the unsuitable lists are created, as Vladan Batic likes to say, the regime, you will probably be able to see, those who will, as SRS MPs do, are among those who are not fit on the list of Vladan Batic. And he says -- it's nothing, it's just the beginning, 200, so we go in line, even those judges who aren't members of that Soros Association, the Association of Judges of Serbia, because such cases are also in municipal courts in the area of the Shumadian County, where on the list for the shooting of Vladan Batic, on the DOS list, these are the kind of judges who have tried according to positive legal standards, according to the applicable laws, and what are you burdening them with, and why are they unsuitable?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13422	Please speak of article 7 and your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13423	I'm talking about Article 7 and the Association of Judges of Serbia, and you, if you follow how I connect facts, things and people, you'll understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13424	Well, with great difficulty, that's why I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13425	No, Mr. Martian, you can't follow that in a way that is appropriate to the President of the Assembly, because your behavior is appropriate to those in the circus. What you're doing behind my back, right now, what you're doing, how you're looking at and watching the MPs while they're sitting in the messenger benches, it's really inappropriate. Please don't take away my valuable time and let me finish. So we seek and propose that this provision of the law, Article 7, be deleted, because we believe that such a way of association, as in the case of the Serbian Society, will mostly DOS make a list of similar and inappropriate, will be blackmailed by judges, who should only adhere to the high moral criteria of professionality and, in such a way, by the Constitution and laws in our country judge and make decisions, "implemented by judicial proceedings, and not by the way they are dictated by the Soroš Association of Judges of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13426	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 41, against 105, there were no uglies, no 22, a total of 168. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the title in front of article 9. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does Mrs. Pop-Lazic want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 120, there were no abstentions, no 28 votes, a total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13427	As in the previous bill of law, I tried to show you what is important to the independence of the judge, so I think that this Article 9 is really important and deciding whether the judge will be independent in his work, whether he will adhere to the law, whether his choice depends solely on the people who give mandate to all of us, in some way and judges. So I want to prevent this amendment from humiliating the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If it remains as proposed, then the National Assembly will be merely the technical body of the High Council of Justice. The constitution is clear. We have tried these amendments to even go against the current constitutional provisions, and you do it every day, and we, in order to show the concept of the SRS, had to say what should be changed in the Constitution in order for this concept to be achieved. In fact, the National Assembly now selects all judges on the proposal of its committee and that is, in some ways, acceptable. The National Assembly has its own, by MPs, formed an auxiliary body that helps to define itself. You are now introducing that the National Assembly, that 250 MPs sit down to just discuss the proposal no longer of their committee, and I do not know why the amendment of the Rules of Procedure is not intended to, or to abolish the Committee of Justice or to remove the powers that are no longer its own, but to move on to the High Council of Justice. That's one aspect of Article 9. The second is whether judges are independent if they are chosen by another branch of government, and even if it is legislative, in fact the executive power, expressed, is shown through the majority in this National Assembly. Why don't we choose the National Assembly exclusively the Supreme Court of Serbia and the President of the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court of Serbia elects all other judges, thus achieving the independence of the judicial authority, the extraordinary independence of the judicial authority, so much so that no one can blame us anymore. Judges decide among themselves who will be the judge -- the most judges by rank, those in whom the state has confidence expressed through the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You see, what is this high-level council of justice? You in Article 27. You predict the law on judges that a judge cannot, for example, be a member of a political party, with everything else he could not be. But that decision does not apply to members of the High Council of Justice, and that is very prominent, not to members of the High Council of Justice who are lawyers or state officials. Now how can you explain what you're interpreting? Why would he be a member of the High Council of Justice, if he's politically oriented and declared, if you don't let judges be members of political parties, I don't understand. The judge is a man, and the man is a being who he thinks he is. What do you mean the judge doesn't think politically, to be a political idiot? If he didn't know which party, or which party he was voting for, why don't you forbid him to vote? If the judge has the right to go to elections, how do you know that he is not politically-oriented, that he can be a judge, why don't you forbid him to be in political party bodies, to be a political party official, to be an MP, why do you forbid him to be a member of the political party? What if he's a judge, I guess he has a right to participate in events. That's not what I'm telling you, I see how individuals behave here, guard some of their judges, think they won't be replaced if this law is passed, and you're wrong, ladies and gentlemen; they'll all be erased. I'm not saying that because of the radicals, there are no judges in court, especially not those who deserve to be expelled from office. You'll probably say something else about it. If you want to preserve the independence of the judiciary, change something, and when you change, change for the better. It's not that the Assembly is no longer proposing judges, its committee, but that someone on the side who's not from the judiciary is saying that you're willing to provide judges with independence in doing your job. That's just saying that you want to put them under an even stricter regime of control over what they're doing. I don't think the judges will stand for it, as some judges have not survived in the past, when some other natural way of thinking and fighting for the naked existence. I'm done, I'm sorry, the judge in Gjilan told me, and the two-month prison solution said, "I'm sorry, I know you didn't beat anyone here in Gjilan, but I have a wife and two kids." If you bring judges into this situation to give people judgments because they have a wife and children, so they worry about losing bread tomorrow, then you haven't changed much in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13428	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 20, against 122, there were no abstentions, no 22, a total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm taking a break until 3:00. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please determine if we have a quorum for the work of the Assembly. I realize we have a quorum and we continue to work. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government accepted the amendment thus became an integral part of the bill. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13430	I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 concerning the impeachment of the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. You know how the election of Serbian Supreme Court President Leposava Karamarkovic was, according to whose recommendation, and you remember how much opposition there was from us Serbian Radical Party MPs. We said that the court in the hands of Mrs Karamarkovic was fully instructed to do as Justice Minister Vladan Batic and the majority DOS coalition wish. But there's something going on here that's kind of premature of a colleague of Dejan Michael's, who's proposing this set of laws. We know that the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia and that it wants the constitution to change according to the concept of Mrs. Radovic. So before the change of the Constitution, he takes the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which only can, and through the Committee on Justice and Administration, he needs to decide on how to choose the holders of judicial functions, on their quality, on their recommendations. But on a proposal from the same board, you, DOS gentlemen, elected Serbian Supreme Court President Mrs Karamarkovic. We believe that (this was your will, this choice, Mrs Karamarkovic), until there is a possible change in the Constitution and in the impeachment of the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, a key role should be played in all of it by having the most legislative body, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and not by some large personal council, which really resembles what we call DOS politburo, which in the people has become domestic. Something similar is proposed through the High Council of Justice and we believe that the violation of the current Constitution and the law, in this way that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is deprived of the right to work and decide on what is its jurisdiction, is unacceptable and therefore it is necessary to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13431	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 24, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 110, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 15 under Chapter II of the proposed Law on Judges, which speaks of the position of Judges and the continuity of the Judge's office. With regard to Article 12, which tax-lists cases where a judge may be removed from the court's duty, which are the reasons, which are primarily the moment when he is given detention, when proceedings for his dismissal or criminal proceedings for which he may be dismissed, Article 15 provides that such a decision on distance has the right to object to a grand personal council within three days. The opinion of the SRS, given the reasons why a decision on the distance of the judge from office can be made, means that it has been detained by criminal proceedings, that these are the previous issues which must be settled in the ordinary procedure and that the complaint is excessive in this case. A large personal council cannot assume on itself the role of measuring whether someone in custody is founded or unfounded, or what the outcome of criminal prosecution will be, or whether they will be convicted or not by a judicial decision. If there are conditions for someone to be held in custody, if a criminal case is going on against one of the holders of a judicial function, then there really is no room for any objection to any authority or to that large personal council. The court's decision has to wait, so it's up to them to decide if anyone can continue to serve as judge. That's why I'm asking this member to be deleted and I urge you to support this amendment for the reasons I've put forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13433	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 115, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Is anyone else answering for a word? (No). I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 110, there were no abstentions, there was no 11 vote, a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 116, two abstentions, 5 did not vote, a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13434	Article 21 refers to the distribution of cases in court. The Proposer considers that judges should receive cases according to order, independent of party personality and circumstances of legal matters and that the way in which cases are distributed is governed by the rules of procedure. So we leave it to the Rules of Procedure to regulate it afterwards. I ask that Article 21 be changed, so it says: "Judges receive objects in accordance with the order of reception and seduction of the employer. "I believe this is a better solution, in order to avoid possible abuse by the president of the court, the deputy president of the court or the head of the department and the distribution of the case, is done according to the personality of the parties and the favors of the judges, which has been very often happening in practice. I think this provision, which I suggest, is much clearer, that in a much clearer way, it regulates the distribution of cases in court and that we must not leave this important issue to be governed by the rules of law. In this way, many abuses, in my opinion, will be prevented. We know from experience that whenever an important item, from the point of view of who the parties are, comes to court, then individual judges are put to trial and how they work, and what judgments they make will depend on their status. And in this situation in which the judiciary is currently located and what is the position of the judge, and on a daily basis, we are witnessing media prosecutions against judges, we should not be asking such an important question to leave it unsettled, or to be regulated by the rules of law and in this way as defined by this proposal. That is why I urge you to think a little bit better about the proposed amendment to this member and to plead for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13435	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 110, abstention 3 did not vote 13, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have already heard the position of the SRS on the order of admission and entry of cases into court proceedings, and our opinion that the distribution of cases should be organised in order of admission and seduction, so as not to be abused by the President of the Court, Deputy Chiefs of Department, etc. As part of such an effort, an absolutely unacceptable article 22 is for us. A bill of law, which I'm looking for, and I suggest you delete it. Article 22 The bill says: "The order of reception of the case can only be waived because of the burden or justifiable prevention of the judge. The judge may only be suspended if he is absent or delayed. "There are many questions now opening up. First of all, the issue of abuse of such a comfortable member 22. The bill and the possibility of this member of the law looking for opportunities to give up the case by someone's order, to be unscheduled for some reason, if it belongs to it, in order to transfer it to someone else and, ultimately, to manipulate and machination through certain clans in courts so far, it has been expressed to such a member of the law. That's why we think we need to delete this member of the law so that any doubt can be eliminated so that someone can manipulate in the future, do whatever they want or by someone's order.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13437	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 115, with two abstentions, did not vote 9, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 23. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13438	It is obviously boring for some of us to go out for a pay phone this often, so they comment on it, but the Secretary of the National Assembly has forced us to only four of us to explain the amendments to the SRS parliamentary club, because it has proved to be an expert on the signatures of the MPs, did not accept that the MPs who signed the amendments in print letters, and then only four of us signed these amendments on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and that is why the four of us explain all the amendments. [[Sagar.]] Mrs. Milka, you can explain what's going on around the thighs in Belgrade, and you probably can't talk much about this matter. [[Sagar.]] The draft law on judges in Article 23 states: "The annual schedule of jobs, the change of type of work, the deviation from the order of reception of cases or the confiscation of cases, the judge has the right to object to the president of a directly higher court, within three days". And we have nothing against this. However, in this second position, it says: "The opposition of the Serbian Supreme Court judge is decided by the Greater Personality. " We are also in the principle debate, and all of our amendments are going towards that goal, we have declared that we are against establishing a large personal council, because this way we are directly creating both bureaucracy and politicisation of the judiciary. The most measured one to decide on the opposition of Serbian Supreme Court judges, in our opinion, is the general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia and, in that sense, the amendment has been submitted. Since you have not accepted any of the previous amendments relating to the great personal council, I suppose you will not accept this one, but consistency in the submission of the amendments makes me want to come out and explain every amendment. Thank you. [[Milka Marinkovic, from the site - replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13439	Now, you're gonna be surprised, but this presidency really didn't hear what you said, only to ask her to rephrase the situation. We just missed the party, but we really don't know if the replica request was established. Did you mention that? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13440	Since my character and work is very often attacked here in the Assembly, without grounds, of course, especially the character, I understand the obsession of certain MPs, MPs rather I would say, me, out of pure female jealousy, but I advise that they still follow, that they have so much elemental concentration, that there are more women in the O.R. and that I'm not the only one talking. Now I haven't said a word about this remark that's pure female envy. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13441	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 129 abstentions, there was no vote of 23, a total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 24. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 116, there are no abstentions, no 12 votes, a total of 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 12. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13442	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, held its negative political debate in general, and if you want a legal position towards forming a new body at Serbia's Supreme Court, with different powers. We don't understand why we're even forming a big personal council. We do not understand because the general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia could make decisions on all matters on which jurisdiction, prerogatives, ingenuity has been transferred to a large personal council, and I have therefore submitted an amendment to Article 26, where it is said that the judge can make a big personal complaint if he is violated the right for which the law does not provide for a special protection procedure. I haven't just explained to the end why we felt it was better to exist and remain a legal institute of general sessions, not a large personal council. Because the restrictions that exist within the large personal council are contradictory to the very nature of the judge's function, contrary to what the legislator actually wanted to get by this law and by introducing such an institute. We believe that it would be incomparably better to do so at a general session, especially with the exception of the Supreme Court President, who has the right and the obligation to be a member of the High Council of Justice, but must not be a member of the grand personal council. That is why we have submitted an amendment in which we ask that the words "greater perrossal" be replaced by the words "The Supreme Court of Serbia", because we believe that the authority that would appoint the judge should be resolved by the appeal of the judges, if it is violated by the right for which no special kind of protection is provided under this law, but I was talking about the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party and what our claim is. So, the Assembly elects judges of the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court judges, in doing so, examines the independence of this branch of government, selects all other judges. That's the essence and that's what the SRS parliamentary group advocates for, so I think this is one, I think, a completely unnecessary institute, an institute that was created just because of the fact that there are reforms and that something new and different is called some strange name, which most people or most citizens don't even know or understand, and there's no need to understand. The second purpose of the existence of a great personal council, I can't understand at all. All of this could have been settled at the general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia, if you wanted to be more coherent and consistent with all of our other laws, with all the other norms in this legislation and this package of laws that we are now adopting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13443	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 148, there were no abstentions, not 9 votes, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be legal possibility. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13444	Ladies and gentlemen, the Proposal for a Law on Judges, in the part of the relationship between the judge's office and other services, affairs and procedures, provides in Article 27 that the judge may not be in office in the bodies which adopt or enforce the rules, that, with his duty, they are incompatible and other services, as proposed, transactions and procedures which are contrary to the dignity and independence of the judge or damage to the reputation of the court. In my view, this formulation seems quite general, is not an obstacle and does not constitute an obstacle to the frequent appearance of some judges, especially the Supreme Court, on some of the boards of directors. I'd like to warn you of a situation that may arise in the event of a judge meeting with the board of directors of any authority. In order to judge that judge, assuming that an organisation whose board of directors is a member is in the process where he is tried as one of the parties opposed to the parties. Whether this is in line with the impartiality of that judge, whether he will be objective, impartial, etc. You agree, and I think you will agree with my opinion, that such a situation is possible and that in order to warn such an outcome, a clear formula for the position on my amendment is to add the term "membership in the boards" to Article 27(2) after the word "service". I think by adopting this amendment, the proposal for a law on judges will gain even more quality. I think this proposal will have support in your opinion. Also, I would like to congratulate all the committees on their mandates in yesterday's elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13445	Zoran Nikolic represents the parliamentary group. (Branislav Ivkovic, from the place: Write, read. ) Within all these points, one represents a parliamentary group. It says, until we get back.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13446	It says he replaces the president when he's not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13447	All right, all right, I meant generally, for all points, all right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13448	To clarify ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, so Mr Zoran Nikolic is authorised to represent a parliamentary group when the president of the parliamentary group is not there. Therefore, I have the right to take my word for it. We have added to Article 27 a condition and we suggest that you accept that membership on boards is also contrary to the judicial function. We have an example that in the boards of individual institutions, such as the University of Belgrade, even the judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia chair, let them think for themselves whether they belong or should do so. Then, we have a judge, newly elected, in the Supreme Court of Serbia, very active in political parties and the functioning of G-17 or G-17 plus, and I must admit, the difference I do not know. Also, the actual functioning of the political party. And in general, we have to admit that lately we have been having extraordinary pressures on judges to become members of individual parties that are important for deciding to remain on judicial or prosecutorial duties. And especially lately, when you run a hack to take away or solve over 180 judges. Finally, by supporting the amendment, I cannot, without commenting and asking the chairman to allow me: The SPS sent all parliamentary groups in this parliament an application for support to call for an extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament on Kosovo and Metohija on 8 September, including the elections. And especially because we saw the government of the Republic of Serbia initiate "Back" as a party that does not go to the elections separately and we knew where it was going. I have to admit that in addition to the SPS, only a party of the SS has signed their signatures. We don't have 84 signatures yet. We have something to catch up on to call an extraordinary session and talk openly about a declaration that is not respected in any single sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13449	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 44, against 119 abstentions, 5 did not vote 16, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 25, against 139 abstentions, there was no vote of 20, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 29th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13450	A colleague of Gordana Pop-Lazic asked to delete Article 28. The proposal for a law and for a reason, as this next 29 is added to the decision-making process on the incompatibility of the function. We who really advocate that this branch, the judiciary branch of power, we who advocate the professionalization of our judicial system, rightly seek and for the reason to delete such a proposal and this member of the bill. It's said here, actually in the previous article, and then it's added to Article 29, which I'm asking to delete, about the incompatibility of a particular function with the duty of the judge. We all know exactly what the legal conditions are, which you DOS people didn't respect when adopting a proposal from similar judges a month ago, but what legal conditions are needed to apply for a judge in a court of law. So, in addition to the legal exam, it's a working experience from two to eight years in court, depending on which court office that someone is running for. And it's perfectly normal, if someone who is a candidate for a judge's office in one of the courts knows, first of all, that he is safe and professionally performing his duties, there are certain duties and certain functions incompatible with the duties of a judge, it is inappropriate for a great personal greater person to be dealt with by someone, for whom the court and the president of the court of the institution to have incompatible functions, to give a warning. Because, if the incompatibility of the function is already established, it is most normal for this person to no longer be able to perform the function of the judge, if that function is in contradiction with the work that needs to be carried out and completely incompatible with the function that the judge, who is to judge under the Constitution and the law, should have. You also know, on the case of our Assembly, how it works - the MPs of the SRS, on several occasions, warn the president and secretary of the Assembly that they cannot violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that they cannot release in the procedure of the amendment committee, which is otherwise not competent to propose them, but can agree with them, with a delay of 10 days or more than the deadline provided for by the Rules of Procedure for the submission of the amendment, and we say it once, twice, and we have nothing more to warn Mr. Marscanin, nor Mr. Maric. Then all legal measures are taken, then SRS MPs, using the law of this country, are going to call off their functions and answer for their actions, both Mr. Martian and Mr. Maric. It's the same with the judge's office and the incompatibility of these duties as functions of judges, so that each of them should know in advance, when they compete, that they can't compete unless they've taken a good look at their situation, or if they don't give up some other duties, some other functions. I suggest you accept this amendment to Article 29.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13451	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already pointed out some illogicalness, incompatibility and inconsistency of the law itself, that is, the incompatibility of certain norms in this law with some other norms from the same set of laws. However, this is about incompatibility with certain norms of the Law on the High Council of Justice, which we will probably adopt today or tomorrow in particular. So, the point is that, when we are already talking about incompatibility with some other services, paid jobs, etc., therefore, with those who are incompatible with the judge's duty, I have to notice an incredible illogicality -- it is said that the President of the Court is notifying the President directly, the High Court of Justice, and the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia -- a large personalally larger. Now, imagine the next situation -- that the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia is notifying a large personal council, and in education, in the formation of a large personal council, according to the Law on the High Council of Justice, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia participated. So I think that elemental logic pushes, that elemental logic is saying that this would be something that shouldn't and shouldn't be accepted, for anyone who would want to, I think, one reasonable way to listen to arguments. I think we should try the bar. Of course, I don't think with this one amendment, although almost everything would change just by accepting one of these amendments, so I don't think all the problems would be solved. But we must avoid this kind of illogicality and this kind of contradiction in the very set of laws. The legislator himself had to take more account of the fact that certain provisions were incompatible or were in conflict with the provisions of certain laws, in this case the Law on the High Council of Justice and the Law on Judges. In any case, I think it's also quite broadly defined how (this applies to the previous member, but it's about this member), which are jobs and duties incompatible with the judge's office, that you just don't know what could fall under what's unworthy of the judge, that he's dealing with it. So it seems to me that there is always discretionary authority, or discretionary possibility and the possibility of arbitration -- whether something will be compatible or incompatible with the judicial function, which should also have been avoided by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13453	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 26, against 132 abstentions, two did not vote 20, a total of 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 44, against 102, a abstentioned one, was not voted 34, a total of 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 100, with three abstentions, it didn't vote 27, a total of 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 33rd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 125, there were no abstentions, no 32, a total of 180. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted amendments to each of these members of the law relating to the material position of the judges, asking us to delete them, for the simple reason that this matter has already been regulated by one law, the Law of Salaries in State Authorities, employees of state bodies, and that such provisions would be contrary to that law. It's not the first time something like this has happened to us, but there's just a principle. This assembly in this assembly has passed the Law on employee salaries in state authorities, where we have regulated the salaries of judges. And now, further to this law on judges, we resubmit all those legal standards of the Law on Salaries and regulate in a completely new way the salaries of employees in courts, or judges at different levels of justice. Article 34 speaks of increasing the basic salary of judges and says that the investigative judge and judge who exclusively or mainly acts in the first degree in criminal matters, in the district court, the basic salary is increased by 20% in the amount set by the high council of justice, and that the high council of justice can decide that basic salaries in court where judges can't be filled up to 75%. First, we think that the high council of justice, even if it stays this way in this law as you wish, should not be in charge of such a thing. Secondly, we believe that this solution is unacceptable, because nothing is harder to deal with than judges and that it should not make a difference between judges, given the very difficult litigation cases and the many laws that judges must know and apply. Given the conditions that you've provided for the judge's election, which is that he has to be a graduate lawyer, you haven't yet stepped down, he's got a legal exam, two years of work, let's say for a municipal court judge, which means he can also be the secretary of a school, and that as such he can apply for a judge without a day's work experience in court. I doubt we'll even get into a situation where there's some area of court where we won't be able to fill in the judges' seats. Therefore, this member as well as all these other members from 30 to 35 are completely excess and indeed contrary to the other law that regulates this area. That's what we're looking for, and we've been looking for, erasing all those members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13455	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out something that, I think, is more principled than particular nature, something that is more related to a group of these members who are talking about judicial incomes than is most directly related to this member. So, we have a regulated status of salary and receipt of judges, and that's the Law on wages in state authorities. Now we're reintroducing one back specialis, of course by the golden rule of back specialis derogat generals, and that's understandable, but the question is whether we need it. The question is how many of us are going to have a back of specialis in every area, and here, in this system of judicial laws, I mean a third or fourth area where we have some kind of back of specialis - therefore, the separation from what is a general system, something that already exists in the Law of Salaries in the State Authorities and the subjugation under some other system that determines a special and special law. I said this because of something that is also very important, what it seems to me is that few people want to point out or few people want to talk about it, and what the SRS has talked about more than once. We've always been against the so-called. secondary legislation. We always wanted to have as much codification as possible, primarily for the protection of citizens' rights, but also for all those who needed it as professional knowledge to be able to apply rights. Namely, we have a secondary criminal law today, and you can find crimes in at least twenty laws, which is absolutely amazing, except for KZ you can find different crimes in the bar twenty more laws. Of course, it's a mistake and everything from before, but it seems to me that we are now in geometric progression to create an even greater number of laws that will represent so-called laws. secondary legislation, not to mention civil legal matters where it is in certain areas much worse than it is in this case. So, I call on you to keep this area and ask the MPs to understand that this area should remain under the legal standards of the Law on Salary in State Authorities, and not in this case we bring a special back specialis, within the Law on Judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13457	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13458	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is just one more detail, since I think it is important to draw attention to the material position of the judges and that this law is regulated in a significantly different way. The fact is, it's a back specialis, as my predecessor says, compared to the law that regulated this area so far. We have also tried this opportunity to equate in this division the executive and judicial powers, so that the president of the Serbian Supreme Court has earned a profit as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, so it goes down further and it is an attempt to bring these two types of government into a division, in order to ease the disproportionateness that existed so far in the material position of the executive and judicial authority. That's why this area is special in relation to the existing law that regulated profits. We think it will significantly improve the position of the judiciary by such a proposal, as it says in the text, which I hope will be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13459	Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13460	The SPS MPs will support one solution that allows materially to improve the position of employees in the judicial system, and also gives those who operate the judicial system the opportunity to specifically reward or allocate more funds to those involved, to say, and to a more difficult type of work, in conditions of realisation of a more difficult type of work. If a person is involved in criminal law and if he comes to his senses, he is certainly in a more difficult position than someone who deals with simple litigation. In any case, we are for that solution that allows for the repair of the position of judicial employees, because it makes them more independent, and for that solution that allows judicial leaders to have the opportunity to especially reward or value the difficult working conditions. These difficult working conditions certainly include the secret release of criminal charges ahead of the November 4th elections, and it is intended, by the Minister of Finance, so horrendously supported by all the media, all in order to influence the election results. Unfortunately, according to those who did, Serbia's Socialist Party has won the largest number of council members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13461	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 18, against 108, the abstention of three, was not voted 47, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government accepted it and thus the amendment became an integral part of the bill. National MP Aleksandar Vukic tabled an amendment proposing a change of title in Chapter III. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13462	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I will point to what is the position of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, which is that it is absolutely unnecessary to introduce a legal institute of the great personal council, that it is much more logical, much better and more reasonable a general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia, as we have so far had. He doesn't need everything that used to exist, even if it was good, to throw it in the trash just because someone wanted to say he was a big reformer. Especially because of the numerous illogicalities surrounding the very composition of the grand personal council; how it works; how the President of the Supreme Court cannot be a member of the grand personal council; nine judges are, and he is now participating in the proposal and election of nine Supreme Court judges who later make it much more personally. That's something that's pretty amazing, and that's why I'm asking you to accept this amendment. In order not to be misunderstood, since some try to demagogical flossulas to talk about something I didn't want to point out, some allegedly care a lot about the judges, and to God, from the Serbian Radical Party, we only take care of the dry laws and nothing else, I think it's something that's very perfidious, but something that has nothing to do with the truth. To confirm that to you, you can look at what it contains as a norm of this law, just the members we talked about -- what it will be paid to the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. If you think he's independent of his work, although his salary will be, to translate it into the language of our people, 330 or 340 German marks, or 10,000 dinars, I don't think they're good wishes, that they're not good solutions for the Supreme Court judge, let alone for all others who will have unmatched lower incomes. There's something else I'd like to say. Of course, the high council of the judiciary, according to the Law on the High Council of Justice and according to its position in the Law on Regulating Courts, has great powers, great rights, and to mix it even in that the High Council of Justice makes special additions to judicial wages is something that is quite unserious. And it also shows how dangerous this exception is that I was just talking about when you leave the Law on Salary in State Authorities and bring a back of specialis in terms of the Law on Judges. At the same time, it's said, if the cost of life rises, it threatens the independence of the judge. Who's making that decision? At what point did the cost of life rise to endanger the independence of the judge? What are the exact elements on which someone can establish it? What are the precise items on this basis and on the basis of which we can see when this high advice of the judiciary (but it is a state body, whatever we think, however drawn up and in any way chosen), at which point will it make such a decision? The question, on the other hand, arises as to how it will function through the Republic of Serbia's budget. He's not gonna high-level judicial advice to pay those salaries alone. Someone's got to pay off, somebody's got to pay off those extras. At what point will what change to make it possible and have to be paid? Just because of all this illogicality, and for public understanding, I ask you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13463	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 22, there were no abstentions against 119, they did not vote 32, a total of 273 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 37. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to try again, by further argument, in my own way to assure you that this whole head should be avoided and the establishment of a large personal council within the Supreme Court of Serbia because it is little to say that we would also harm the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, only by analysing further members of this bill, Art. 56, 57 and 60, you will conclude yourself that the pointless establishment of something that is not foreseen at all by the Constitution of the SRJ and the transfer of some of the powers of the Supreme Court of Serbia, a general session, to a completely separate body that will make up nine judges. In accordance with Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to determine the existence of reasons for the termination of the judge's office, i.e. for the resolution of the judge, and informs the National Assembly. In Article 56. The bill is said - the completion of the working century and the reasons for resolution determines a great personal council. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is directly opposed. Even the President of the Supreme Court in paragraph 3 opens up the possibility that the procedure for its resolution should be initiated by a large personal increase. What were we doing here when we elected the president of the Serbian Supreme Court? Next, in Article 57. - the great personal greater facts determines and decides in the procedure closed to the public. Finally, in Article 60, it will appear in practice such a case - a judge who knows the Constitution, a large personal council will decide that there are reasons for its resolution, and now this is being introduced as another procedure, now he should appeal to the Supreme Court or directly higher, as it goes, and then it will be determined whether the great personal council is right or not. Then you say - if he does not complain, the President of the Supreme Court informs the National Assembly that there are reasons for his resolution. Now I ask you: A judge who knows the Constitution and the laws refuses humiliation to complain to the great personal council. The constitution says that whether there are reasons for its resolution is decided by the Supreme Court of Serbia. The Supreme Court, it's a general session, not a large personal council, and a judge who's an honorable man and works for 20 or 30 years says I won't complain to nine judges, not choose me, nor can the Constitution decide whether I can be a judge or not. Then he found a large personal council that he did not complain, the President of the Supreme Court informed the National Assembly, the National Assembly resolved the judge, he addressed the Constitutional Court of Serbia, after a year, two, five humiliations and harassments, but when he - then welcomed justice and the Constitutional Court of Serbia decided that he was not resolved in the Constitution in the intended way, and not as soon as the decision on its resolution was clear. You know, if whoever wrote the Constitution wanted us to be able to play with the judges so easily, he'd have predicted a big and a little bit personal bigger, bigger loved ones, he'd have predicted anything, all of it would be legal. But he said, "Can anyone still be a judge, the Serbian Supreme Court decides. "There are no more committees, no more draws, nor can there be any exception from any Supreme Court judge in deciding whether any of the judges in Serbia will be resolved, because all judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia are responsible for the judge. I think it is so incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that we are transferring the job for the general president to only nine judges, that he had to inform us of the Serbian Government's legislation. I am convinced that he has informed the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the laws are not in line with the Constitution and that that is why we have received the government's initial negative opinion on these draft laws. To warn the National Assembly - the government has informed us that the laws do not comply with the Constitution, that the general principles of these laws do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Today, the government, I suppose, although the president of the National Assembly should have writtenly asked for an opinion on amendments, but through one of the ministers, informed the National Assembly that these same general principles of these laws are now compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that the laws can be accepted. We are incurring inconclusion in the process of passing the law, and it will surely get revenge on us, regardless of what support you are in implementing these laws, whether you are counting on it or not. Times passed when the whole world stood up against the decisions of the National Assembly. This time it supports you, even when you're making draft laws that even JUL couldn't push through. But I warn you to think about how you work. Nothing is more, neither power nor opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13465	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 128, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 26, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13466	And the authorised promoter, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and the deputy party president, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, have said many arguments at the speaker in favour of our pledge to erase the great personal council. Today the question is rightly asked - why is it being introduced in the first place and who needs it? What will this bigger do with its nine members, and how will it decide? In article 38, I asked for "The Greater Personality" to be replaced by the words "General Session of the Supreme Court of Serbia. "We believe that, as is the institution that is being introduced, the high council of the judiciary and the great personal council aim to further red tape in our judicial system, further politicisation. Only, I would remind you, first of all, of what happened on October 11th, ten days before the beginning of this session, and how this proposal, and especially the large personal council, was signed by Vice-President Joseph Kasa. Of course, all the political trades are in play, maybe some of the new ones that are here at the pier, we see it through the process of voting on amendments, about laws in principle, and that's logical, given the fact that we know and we already said who wrote this bill, so JUL still in 1996,1997. I'll remind Mr. Michaels, for his sake and the general public who is following this transmission, what Joseph Kasa said when it comes to the great personal council. In addition to numerous remarks made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in its only address to MPs because of our amendments, except for that brief but unconvincing speech by Prime Minister Vladan Batic, we have not received any official notice from the government. We are only informed on 11 October that the government does not accept these draft laws. Here, Mr. Kasa, on behalf of the government, says: "The bill establishes the Great Personal Greater as the Supreme Court of Serbia's body, which decides on certain issues of the position of judges, with provisions incomplete for the Government of the Republic of Serbia at that time unacceptable. "What happened in the meantime, you know it best. The public was able to monitor how Mr. Dejan Mihajlov, who is only here as an official promoter, now triumphed, and we already said who wrote these laws. However, there will be a recorded way of proposing these laws, a way of entering the Committee's amendment procedure and, as the most important thing in this amendment, unnecessary introduction of a large personal council, which will decide as part of the DOS state machinery, which wants to put full control over the area of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13467	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 20, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? (No). I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 20, against 121, there were no abstentions, they did not vote 32, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? (No). I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 19, against 127, there were no abstentions, no 27 votes, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 41. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Chapter IV on conditions for selecting judges, article 41 says - a Yugoslav citizen who meets the conditions for working in state authorities, who graduated from law school, may be elected as a judge and is worthy of the duties of the judge. My amendment, in the first part of this article, in paragraph 1, refers to the need to put an end to it immediately, behind a judicial examination, to erase the part that speaks- and is worthy of the duties of the judge. Because, in the explanation of the promoter, it is said that it is a worthy narrow notion of reputation, that it is a less laminated term, if only well quoted by the Proposer, that it is a concept that is more advocating to the professional public than ordinary citizens, to a people who do not have to understand it at an extreme stage or case. I have several objections, which I would have had if it had remained a reputation, but less, because it's more understandable to ordinary citizens. It seems to me that this is about something very broadly interpreted and that everyone can be said to be worthy of judicial duty, but also to be unworthy. If this suits the political summit, that is, those who have the greatest influence on the so-called so-called political summit. The high advice of the judiciary, which we have accepted, that is, whose formation we have accepted by adopting a set of these laws. So, I think this opens Pandora's box, which will be interpreted in every way by the individual judges, whether they are worthy or not, and I'd like to see who they are. We recently had, in this high house, a case that we chose judges who weren't even citizens of the SRJ. Here, Mr. Pal Shandor is able to confirm that at any moment. He knows what we did in Subotica. So we didn't meet that condition either. Imagine if we came to this -- which are criteria of judge dignity, and it would always be right if the legislator, and we as legislators, avoided what is called broad norms, what is called norms that allow arbitration and over-discretional powers. In Part Two, my amendment refers to the fourth indent that is deleted. Namely, it says that after a legal examination, work experience in the legal profession is needed, and conditions are listed, from two to 12 years, from the municipal to the Supreme Court. My amendment is related to the Court of Appeal and the newly established administrative court as a specialised court, because, as we have already said, we in the SRS advocate that such courts do not exist, but that the second-degree jurisdiction is divided between the district and the Supreme Court. We don't need appeal courts at all. All specialised courts should, in fact, fall under courts of general jurisdiction with different departments, criminal-legal, civil-law, administrative and legal or commercial law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13469	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, a total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 42. The amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13470	In Article 42, I asked that the words "high council of the judiciary" be replaced by the words "The Supreme Court of Serbia". It is indeed unacceptable and inappropriate for the legislator, whoever wrote it by name and last name, to suggest that the choice of judges advertise the high council of justice. The question then arises as to what independence of the judiciary is here, when we have in mind who, according to your proposal and under special law, are members of the High Council of Justice - Minister, which is the direct interference of the executive authority in advertising the election of judges, and the President of the Supreme Court, who has also been elected by your will. So, in the way that the proposer imagined it, there is no possibility of full independence of the judiciary and the non-mixing of the executive branch of the government in the decision-making process. And this is indeed something scandalous, and it is necessary for MPs to make a positive statement about this amendment, because it is unacceptable for any judge who applies to this duty that the high council of justice advertises the choice of judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13471	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 115, the abstentioned were not voted 35, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13472	In Article 42, the case for the selection of judges is also our position, as my colleague has already said, that the choice of judges should be advertised by the Supreme Court of Serbia, not by the High Court of Justice. So we're basically against it. And Article 43, which speaks of whom applications should be filed when the competition is called, requires intervention in this sense that election applications are submitted not to the high council of the judiciary, but to the Supreme Court, of course, within 15 days, as scheduled, from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". That's where it should stand -- and in the second medium of public intelligence, because in the previous position it stands. However, what should certainly be deleted in this article is paragraph 3, which says that a personal document should be provided to the High Judicial Council for each candidate from the court. We've already talked about that we're against keeping any special criminal records and records similar to those of the Ministry of Justice for all court employees, including judges, of course. Deleting this position third is due to the fact that the conduct of a personal list for each judge is, above all, incompatible with the Labour Relations Act in the state bodies. We would have to respect this law as a general law that speaks of what all employee records are and what it is that in personal documentation, that is, in the personal record of every employee in the state authority, there must be. In addition, candidates who come from the judiciary and candidates who come from other companies, businesses from the economy or who have been employed by private firms are being placed in an unequal position. What about those people who have been employed for years, for example, in some independent activity, lawyers have had two years of training, have passed a professional exam, have been engaged in foreign trade, engaged in scholarships, engaged in the making of buttons or other work, which provided them with income for their lives, i.e. providing their existence, and are applying for a choice for such a high function. You have foreseen this law of yours that such may be judges. We should still maintain that the judge must have some work experience that he has gained in court, as a judicial intern or as an expert associate, and thus have obtained some references so that he can compete for such a high and important function, which we should all respect. Those who think that this law will contribute to the respect of judges, that their salaries will be higher and their position more independent. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said his salary is 10,000 dinars, so some judges calculate their salary. Maybe, though, Zoran Djindjic lied, he can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13473	Anybody else answer for a word? I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 123, there were no abstentions, no 32, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 24, against 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted 30, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote of 31, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Law and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13474	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that it is not easy to cope with these amendments and these laws. Therefore, in Article 46, which speaks of the choice of judges and says that the National Assembly can select only the candidate whom the High Council of Justice proposes, this norm is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as in the back of the superior-y, as the highest act, and therefore the provision cannot remain and survive in legal traffic. It is clear, therefore, who is authorised by the Constitution of the Republic to make the choice of judges and cannot be limited to any other body or body or body, or by executive authority, and in particular by any expert body or any other organising body, that is what the Proposer called it, in the performance of its duties and in the exercise of its powers. In my amendment, it is said, in paragraph 1, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is elected by the President and Judges of the Supreme Court. What is therefore our authority, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is that, in line with what I have already said, it is an SRS programme to ensure the independence of the judiciary. Serbia's Supreme Court would elect the presidents of the lower-level courts and judges, at the proposal of a general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia. We think that would be the most logical and clever solution, that would be the most normal. Indeed, it is almost amazing and somewhat strange that the legislator insists on the solution that certain authorities and certain prerogatives are taken away from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and given to another body, which neither by law nor by law nor by this authority. Moreover, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has its hands completely tied in this case. So every time he gets a proposal or a list of candidates, or he'll accept everything, means a block list, or he'll have to refuse, and then he'll have to wait again for a proposal from the High Council of Justice, and he can be completely identical, that it doesn't make any difference. And if the National Assembly refuses, we have no judges, we have no courts, we have nothing. It is absolutely amazing that in such a way they can be tied to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative body, as someone who, under the Constitution, should perform the duty of electing the highest judicial functions, because the high council of justice feels that this should not be done in such a way. If we don't like a particular proposal or certain candidates for many reasons, if for nothing, then for what I've criticised, and that's the dignity of the judge's duty, then the High Council of Justice will say: you 250 out there that the people chose, you 250 that the people chose, you're fools, and we're smart, so we're going to suggest the same thing now, but you have to adopt that. If you don't adopt it, and you don't know anything in the National Assembly, we will tell the whole Serbian people and all citizens that you are blocking the choice of judges, that you are blocking the work of courts, that you are not actually going to operate the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia. I'd rather have some who threw -- a warning, a warning -- if they'd listened to something, they might have heard something, at least in these laws, instead of dragging their hands into someone else's pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13475	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 26, against 129 abstentions, 23, a total of 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13476	Although 80% of DOS MPs did not listen to what we said in favour of what the SRS advocate was, it is only fair, which is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but only after the Constitution has changed in this regard, chooses the members and president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and that the Serbian Supreme Court elects judges and presidents of municipal and district courts. We weren't convincing enough, because many of you are absolutely uninterestingly following this session. They are only here to run out of time until 6:00 p.m., and they are making it impossible for the MPs to make their remarks and to explain the amendments, and it is obvious that the President of the National Assembly is unable to impose order in his authority and that we can talk in an atmosphere that should be the atmosphere of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because I am speaking with my amendment that the elected judges, after the change of the Constitution, in the way the SRS advocates, take an oath instead of the President of the National Assembly, before the President of the Supreme Court. It remains in the provisions of the judge's entry into office unclearly - what are the consequences of the elected judge if he does not take an oath. It is really impossible for you to observe calmly, or not at all, you do not know what this is about, that in this way, through a bill like this, the current constitutional jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative body, are suspended through the introduction of special, special bodies, allegedly independent of the legislative and executive part of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13477	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 26, against 126, abstention three, no vote 24, a total of 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 48th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13478	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an interesting member, and it says: "I swear to Almighty God that I will do my duty to the Constitution and to the law, by my best knowledge and skill and serve only truth and justice." An oath (another attitude) can be passed without the word "the Almighty God". I don't know what a man would swear afterwards, when there was no honor, no family, no estate, no state, no people, and all that was contained in the word of God. I have proposed a very random formulation, but much more reprieveable, which is that the judge will eventually say, "As I respect this oath, so help me God." Of course, there's no Almighty God at first. I've heard this interpretation that it doesn't look like a secular state, that we respect the French bourgeois revolution, which separates the state from the church. However, we have introduced religion into schools, and even regrets the government's president that his child is not a little less, so he can enroll him from the first class of religious studies, to study religious studies. The question arises -- who would mind mentioning God in an oath before the President of the National Assembly or the President of the Supreme Court in front of the entire National Assembly? There's no religious impatience. All faiths, monotheistic beliefs, say that God exists, all faiths are treated to this God, and there we could not say that now we, who are in most of this country, and we who are mostly in the SRS, are now imposing something that is contrary to his attitudes. Maybe we should've told the Central Committee, so we should've satisfied both these antiques and the new believers, who are now also with the legislators and those who are going to help him and who don't believe in God. But to tell you the truth, who doesn't believe in God, don't even be a judge. Because then they will no longer obey any law or justice. I will not interfere with what God is called, in which language he is called, in which language he prays, but I ask the National Assembly to establish something that binds generations of those who decide on the fates of men. You'll have a judge who needs to give a lot of fines. I hope no judge gives a death sentence. I'm personally against the death penalty, and that's where I found myself in the U.S.S.S., which advocates that it be abolished immediately. But a judge who imposes severe punishments, rigorous punishments, must think that there is someone higher, someone stronger, someone who controls our actions and someone who is mostly not consecrated to us, but to those who are completely innocent, to those who would remain behind us, to those who continue our line. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought first I'd ask for a quorum, but in front of this member, here I don't even insist on determining the quorum, please seriously consider - will you accept that unacceptable amendment, will you accept an amendment that can no longer be tolerated, it's past its deadline, so you rule God out of oath, or will you prove that there's something that you, too, who, by revolution, have come to power, are afraid? I'm telling you, some and advice, for years, and not just from experience -- believe in God and fear God, because they seem to have taught you nothing to be afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13479	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 41, against 81, abstention 22, no 34, a total of 178. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government has accepted this amendment. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, George Mamul, to Article 48. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13480	I suggest that he comply with the Committee's position and be with the adjective of his "honour".
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13481	Yes, it has already been accepted, it has become an integral part of accepting the previous amendment. I can interpret this as a proposal to withdraw the amendment. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are attending something that is almost incredible. The MP came out for a pay phone to change the text of his amendment, and then the president of the National Assembly said it interpreted it as a withdrawal of the amendment. I would just say, not about all of this, about what the Justice Committee has changed, and the Proposer has accepted, and about this member and the amendment that's just on the agenda, that it seems to me that we're not just talking about our tradition, about our culture, about something that existed, not just as an Orthodox custom, but the custom of all those who believe in God. I would like to speak of a greater obligation to respect justice, justice, and justice and truth and incomparably greater and wider moral obligation to a judge who would swear by God than honor. After all, we've had examples and so many wicked, it would be strange, that they're honored by anything. Of course, the highest number is very honorable. When I say this, I mean, first of all, Leprechaun Karamarkovic and some of her kind. I think that we would really do it to be a solemn oath, that every judge with pride remembers that oath and that it represents an obligation at all times, in every part of the day and night, every time he does his duty, every time he performs his function. There is no greater honor, nor a better obligation, but that after such an oath, in which I would say--so help God, he performs his duty and his function. It seems to me that this amendment should be rejected, and unfortunately the amendment of Tomislav Nikolic has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13483	If no one answers again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 16, against 105 abstentions, 20 were not voted 34, a total of 175 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted, although it has actually been accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13484	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, my amendment concerns Article 49(3). The bill, which provides for a senior court judge elected president of a lower court, to retain the court's office. We believe that this formulation is not adequate and is not in line with the very concept of the law, since Article 69 of the same proposal states in paragraph 2, that when a judge of a senior court, elected president of a lower court, ceases his duties as president, he has the right to continue his duties as judge in a higher court. We agree with this idea, but we believe that it is more comprehensive that it is a linguistic, grammatical expression in the way described in my amendment, so Article 49(3) now states: "The judge of the higher court elected as President of the lower court, after the term of office can return to the office of the judge of the higher court". I'm glad the Justice Committee has accepted this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13485	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 124, against 27, one was abstentioned, not voted 22, a total of 174 MPs. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13486	Article 49 is within the scope of the oaths of the judge to enter into office, and before I begin to explain the amendment to this article, I must note that by not accepting the amendments... (you can include, please, whether we're involved, there's a lot of noise here obviously, although there are few MPs in the O.R., indifference is great). You've missed a real chance to adopt a text of oath that would be appropriate and acceptable to everyone. I just can't present that picture now in the National Assembly when the president of the Assembly reads the text of the oath, there are judges in front of him and he says - I swear, and they repeat - I swear by the almighty God, and three of the ten swallow dumplings, and the seven say, almighty God, and then he says, by his honor, to those three who would swear to their honor, and so until the end of the oath. This is really something amazing. You are also playing with this home and the text of that oath, and you are bringing down something that is improvisation, not something that really represents an act that needs to be done in the National Assembly for the judge that means one significant moment in his life, so that he continues to perform his function as he does. The judge takes office at the formal session of all the judges in the court he was elected to, and that's certainly fine. However, in the position of the 3rd member, it is proposed that the judge of the senior court elected as president of the lower court may retain the office of the judge of the higher court. This should certainly be deleted because it is not compatible for the president of the lower court to retain the duty of the judge of the higher court, and if we are talking about some incompatibility of function, this would absolutely be incompatibility of functions. It basically means that if a judge came to the president of the lower court, let's say from the district court or the Supreme Court, that he could keep that judge's office in court from where he came from. And he could, of course, judge in that court he came from for the president of the lower court. This is both against the law and against the constitution and it's about incompatibility of functions in any case. That's why I suggest that a motion like this be rejected and a formalized member of the 49th of this law. Another question arises: Where will this man exercise his rights in working relations? Is it in that court where the President of the Court or in that court from which he came and where he still judges? And whether he needs to be cloned, so at the same time he'll be in one court and another, or if this is going to be a privilege for some judges or if you're going to go to a reduction in the number of judges. Or the presidents will, i.e. Judges of district courts or court of appeal and Supreme Court judge to be president of all other lower courts. Something's going on around the hill here, and what, we'll see in practice when you start applying this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13487	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments to Article 49 to vote and I ask you to make your statement by voting. For 21, against 123, there were no abstentions, they did not vote 23, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13488	In Article 50, as part of the Serbian Radical Party's advocate that it is unacceptable for us to have a large personal council, I asked it to be deleted. However, it is absolutely unacceptable that, at a time when the ruling political group, both the Democratic Party of Serbia and its proposing, they want the National Assembly to vote on this set of judicial laws without a quorum in the hall. There are several of us and over a few of us, and how much is it I ask you to establish according to the Rules of Procedure, by establishing a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13489	According to Article 82. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5. - if the MP raises doubts as to the existence of a quorum established by the application of the electronic voting system, the President of the National Assembly shall put into account the computerisation of the present Members of Parliament. You'll get an insight. I find that there are 146 MPs present electronically. Is anyone else answering for a word amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For eight, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 44, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 52nd Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 17, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 33, out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that it is the same legal possibility. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 107, there were no abstentions, there was no 18 vote, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that it is the same legal possibility. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13490	I have proposed a much better solution for Article 54 than the Proposer did, and this article 54, by amendment, which I do not believe you have in front of you, because some people don't even know what law is in this set of laws on the agenda, and now that we're asking MPs they wouldn't know, it says, "The judge is resolved when he's convicted of a criminal offence to unconditional imprisonment, when he's unwittingly or unequivocally doing his duty or when he loses his job as a judge. "In view of the importance of the judicial function for representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, and I believe that such an opinion has a vast majority of our people, I think this solution is much better and contributes to the preservation of the reputation of the judiciary. If you say in your proposal, article 54, that one who is sentenced to prison for up to six months can remain in office as a judge, then it's just amazing. Imagine everyone in your town as a judge, it can also be the president of a municipal, county court, don't give God, that this guy strips naked and goes down the main street of your city, that he's been trespassing for a month or two days, I don't know how long he'd have been assigned by a judge for violations and that you bring him back, that he'd be the president of a municipal or county court. Or if we had such cases that someone was aggressive, violent, to disrupt public order, to drive in an alcoholic state, but I wouldn't be surprised, since we're still in mind and it's going to remain a seal and a lie to you DOS men who've dealt with such staffing, that in the Frogs you've proposed to be the president of a court of a man who physically harassed and abused a woman. Mrs. Micic, you who are an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Vice-President of the Assembly, and right now in the seat of the chairman, should provide me with a listing and I warn you that in parliamentary units, and I demand that the competent service determines that, there are many more identification cards than there are present MPs in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13491	I ask the service to deliver a computer copy to Miss Natashi Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 20, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 27, out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th Amendment was filed by the People's MP George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 119, against 28, there were no abstentions, there were no 16 votes, of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 56th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendments to the vote. For 23, against 120, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 22, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National Ambassador Dragan Todorovic submitted to the 56th amendment. The Committee for Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the same as legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13492	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of my amendment, which concerns Article 56, on establishing the reason for the Court of Justice's termination, in paragraph 2, where the procedure for resolution is said to be initiated by the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Minister of Justice, refers to the disabling of the justice minister to initiate such a procedure. Why? In accordance with the principle of power-sharing in legislative, executive and judicial matters, it is incompatible and incompatible to the member and holder of the executive authority to be able to initiate proceedings for the resolution of judges. I think this amendment is very clear. I am pleased that both the Legislative and the Committee on Justice have supported my amendment and I urge you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13493	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 118, against 27, abstentions, 5 did not vote 15, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 57th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13494	I hope by the end of the session, we get the list we asked for, to determine how many MPs there are in the O.R. Article 57 and Article 56, which precedes it, are within the scope of the chapters relating to determining the reasons for the termination of the judicial duty. The reasons for stopping the court's duties are the completion of the working century, which is easily determined on the basis of a personal record, and you have also introduced these personal papers, so it is not a problem for officials to draw attention to the competent authority when someone has completed enough years of training to retire on a legal basis. The National Assembly is the one who chooses judges. But when they get rid of each other, for whatever reason, it's a big personal matter, according to your proposal. This is absolutely contradictory to the spirit even such a confusing law. I think the promoter would have to pay attention to this and, if possible, correct himself, because we have enough of our responsibilities, which the Constitution has given us as a legislative authority, transferred to a large personal council of justice, which is really inadmissible. But when basic state interests are to be discussed, then we leave it to the Serbian government, the federal government, Vojislav Kostunica, to decide with tea whether Serbs will go to the elections in Kosovo on November 17th or not. We should keep an eye on what this house needs to discuss, stick to the Constitution and keep our jurisdiction until we change that constitution. I hope, not in that spirit, that wife of Vojislav Kostunica, Dr Zorica Radovic, imagined.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-05-0.u13495	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 19, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 25, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This would be the end of today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
