ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator provided for Article 9 that in Article 76 of the existing law, the term "to be kept in a special account", replaces the words "for the territory of the municipality is paid into the budget of the municipality, and for the area of the local community at the expense of the local community". We asked, by proposing an amendment to Article 9, for "municipality" to put an end to the wording, and for the rest of the text to be deleted. We have given an explanation that it is completely irrational to trust the local community, which is not staffed and professionally trained to deal with bargaining, as well as financial transactions, especially when it comes to the funds that the citizens have entrusted them with. We are witnessing numerous abuses in local communities. Remember only those regressed fuel stamps, which often did not reach the end users and were subject to reselling, manipulation, and sharing of persons who had a privileged position, either by party, family or any other friendly relationship. In many cities, for example in Nis, we don't have a local community, we have local offices. I think it's much more effective and better. So we need to clarify once that the local community is the primary cell of society and that it needs to be entrusted with jobs, and even those jobs for which they are neither human or professionally trained, and the possibility of misuse of these funds is evident and very possible. I call on the Members to support this amendment and thus correct what the legislator has proposed, and it is not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4443	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be accepted for the simple reason that the essence and status of the local community are absolutely not defined in our constitutional and legal system, although the laws on local self-government are regularly mentioned, all the laws that have been passed since 1990, the local community, they do not interpret it sufficiently convincingly in legal terms and leave the freedom to decide on any local self-government, whether they will have local communities or not. There's a lot of hesitation with local self-government authorities. That's it, for example. The Belgrade City Assembly has been avoiding this issue for a decade. As well as the Socialist Authority, and the SPO government and the current DOS government. Everyone is running away from the pleas, afraid to object to local powers in the local community, and everyone is aware of the problems that local communities pose in the country's legal system. Why? Because, first of all, the local communities are not perceived as the authorities of local self-government. Meat communities enjoy legal personality status, but do not have the responsibility to identify the responsibility of their officials, those who make decisions for decisions taken. The elections for the local communities are not uniformly and rationally arranged throughout Serbia. We've even had cases where the council of the local community has appointed an executive board of the municipality's congregation according to the statutes of the municipality. We've had cases where the managing bodies of the local community are being famished by meeting a group of people, so they've declared to be a congregation of the local community. A very colorful situation throughout Serbia. The biggest speculation with the money from the self-delivery took place right in the local communities. No one's ever answered for that. There are a huge number of local communities that have been calling for self-debts, who have been collecting money, and there is no telling what happened to these money, and the objects that were planned for self-delivery have never been built. As far as local communities are concerned, they cannot oblige anyone under the Constitution and the law to make their own decisions. The local community can't sign off on a self-debt and oblige citizens to submit to that self-dependence, to raise money. It's a community thing. If only the municipality can do so, then the municipality must be responsible for the money collected in the name of self-dependence. The municipality corresponds to two basics, as a local self-government authority and as a state administration body, as it is entrusted as a local self-government authority with the competence of the State Administration's affairs. It's possible to carry out that control. In the local community, it's usually such a situation that today one president, tomorrow another, so no one can hold their heads or tail when it comes to investigating what happened with the money, how the money was spent, etc. Local clans are forming. They are trying to take over the municipality's competences regarding the availability of municipal and construction land, with regard to decision-making on the lease of public areas, etc. All of these are reasons why this amendment would have to be accepted and no money from self-dependence would be entrusted to local communities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4445	Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4446	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this is one of the amendments in which it makes a lot of sense, but if our efforts to change the state of society and change those relations that we have rightly been dissatisfied with, those relations that have finally affected the electoral will of citizens. The fact that the local communities have been doing bad or that they have largely failed to function cannot be an excuse for maintaining such a situation in society. Meat communities are a fact and it's not good to go around local communities. The example of Belgrade, in itself, cannot be a rapper for our intent. I have information on the elections held on the territory of the Obrenovac municipality. These are very good elections for local communities, citizens have chosen their representatives. Since they have the right to an account, I don't see why we would take away people's ability to do their job safely. Of course, the abuses, which were in the previous period, are one reminder for us, but I think the responsible municipal authority, the responsible republican authority, the responsible opposition that will point to all failures, are sufficient guarantees of a different relationship between the local community, particularly against the problems of citizens within such a territorial unit. So there's not much point in calling for the past tense. We have some kind of experience and these types of experience, absolutely certainly, are welcome for us as a government that will, in such a relationship with the local community at the same time, take care not to repeat those images that were mainly the characteristics of those officials who functioned at the level of the local community. So all bad examples are just a reminder, but they cannot possibly be a reason to exclude local communities from this kind of legal reform. We believe in our citizens, we believe in their consciousness, we believe in their representatives whom they have now chosen democratically, therefore, without imposing on the side, without being appointed by the side. I think it's certainly that kind of relationship, a relationship that has one quality perspective. Therefore, we insist on this formulation in the law and are not ready to support this kind of amendment, although it makes a lot of sense if elected representatives at the level of the local community are taken in advance to behave differently from their predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4447	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4448	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in an amendment submitted by Serbian radicals, as far as these local communities are concerned, I would first and foremost address Mr Cedi Jovanovic, so it is not about the past, it is about the expertise and the staff that are now in the local communities. What I say responsibly is for the region from which I came - the Jablani District, that people who run the municipality are not capable of human beings covering all directorial posts, because they bring directly people who are pensioners to be directors of public utility enterprises, such as the JPY "Communalac", "Piazza", etc., let alone that they are able in local communities to do their jobs financially and professionally. So it's okay that a municipality that may be humane, in any case, better equipped, more capable and more professional, can channel funds towards local communities, depending on the needs and findings, or the realization of individual programs, but not the local community itself. What I can say, first of all, in Jablanic County, is that the current government, first of all local self-government, works very poorly. They allow some major polls to be conducted, for example, to express negativeness towards other nations. That, first of all, is the G-17 Plus office, where even after the interrogation, it came to have a negative relationship with other nations 52.16%. If we know and if the democratic government has always advocated that we are fighting for nations, or that there is no racial impatience, I do not see at all why the new power in Leskovac is now conducting some surveys and is disrupting and stimulating some hatred for some other nations. The Serbian Radical Party has always advocated it, and enough is enough that we had a minister in the Republic government, who belongs to Roma nationality. That's how we show the true democracy of our party. Not to mention the fact that local self-government, especially Minister Batic, which I was already talking about in Lebanon, is not working for a month and a few days at all. Now they have found an emergency solution, or an emergency administration of nine members, and five should be from the Democratic Party. Indeed, it is absurd, if we know that the Democratic Party, which is currently the strongest of the DOS parties in Leskovac, is constantly disintegrating itself, four times making conventions, always unsuccessfully, setting up one president of the municipal board, after 15 days of the chairman of the municipal board, constantly having forced administrations every 15 days. If such a Democratic Party works in Leskovac, how are they and with what right and moral, especially if they went badly in the Lebanese elections, can they seduce the forced administration of Lebanon and think they can function? So the absolute DOS government is unable to function at the community level, let alone at the level of the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4449	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4450	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Djelic, the Socialists absolutely support the concept of local communities, support the right of local communities to, as they are on site, on the ground, that they are essentially citizens who directly perceive everything that hurts them and what bothers them about the development of their environment, have the absolute right to plan for the development of those environments. Therefore, bad experiences with local communities in cities, especially since the current government, and the former opposition, has taken over cities, should be ignored. It is absolutely necessary to take care that no one knows the needs of a particular region, a particular area, a village, as the citizens of the local community know. Thus, in the last 10 and more years, so much water, sewerage, power supply, phone delivery, done extremely well, seen as a real problem for locals, has been solved not only by financial means of self-delivery, but also by work, by using machinery, by using funds for the work of certain local community citizens. The Socialists, therefore, are in order to ensure that local communities retain the right to collect contributions, which implies, above all, the right to manage the area where the local community is located, the right to see the problem of which there is a collective interest in solving these problems. Therefore, we will not support this amendment, and we believe that the proposed solution by the government is in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4451	There's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4452	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in Amendment 9, behind the words "municipality" is the point, and the rest of the text is deleted. So that's the suggestion. It is absolutely irrational to trust the local community, which is not staffed professionally trained to deal with bargaining, as well as financial transactions, especially when it comes to the funds that the citizens have entrusted it with. We are witnessing numerous abuses by local communities. decentralisation is an idea that needs to be done. How, when you do more centralization? You're just declaring yourself, and the works are still far away. Local self-government is not even in office yet, as many municipalities have not even been established. For example, I come from Irigo, there for more than six months the DOS government has failed to establish a local self-government. The essence and status of local communities are neither defined by the Constitution, and local self-government has doubts whether they will have local communities or not. So that's what we've already mentioned. Meat communities are not defined as authorities of local self-government. The elections are not regulated identically throughout Serbia. So that's different set there. Self-esteem is never respected until the end. At first, it works, and then it goes off-plans and local clans form that establish some of their activities. That is why I suggest that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4453	The word is Mr. Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4454	In Article 9, behind the words "municipal" is the point and adds: "The cost of protecting and improving the environment is spent strictly on purpose, and also to determine the maximum percentage of interventions from citizens." The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on public revenue and public expenditure states in Article 4 that local public revenues, among other things, are in point 6. ... (President: You have one later amendment that you are now talking about. He'll be on his way. This is exactly the amendment. I guess I know what I'm talking about. You really want to provoke an MP first, and then the paper says someone's obstructing. You're not Cleopatra to know what I'm saying. Let me say, and what I say you vote positively or negatively. This is something that existed in the existing Law on Public Revenue and Expensiveness. Since it is a new form of compensation, it was logical for the legislator to explain in detail how to introduce compensation in terms of the maximum amount, basically, to which the compensation obligation applies and the like. Since this is a new local income, and not regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government, as applied, that explains it. It is not resolved in this bill, but must be resolved in local self-government because it is local income. Does this mean that local government or government level, so municipalities and cities, are completely free to determine this fee. Does this mean that the local government is free to spend so much on the salary of its workers? It is necessary to specify this compensation for the following issues. First, the basis on which it would be applied. Furthermore, the rate of compensation to be applied on the basis of or the fixed amount of compensation in the selected criterion, per m2 territory. Who's obliged to pay the fee. Spending funds and collecting in this way, should highlight their intended character. It should not allow full self-will in spending funds at the level of municipalities, i.e. The city. If, by eliminating the municipal contribution and the contribution to solid residential construction and their overruns to the income fund, the decentralised spending of a large part of the funds in the municipality's income structure would not be desirable for compensation, which in its name has a clear purpose of protecting the environment, to spend in a completely different way and in a different way, i.e. Unintentional. With such spending, she would lose the purpose of her existence. The only provision in other laws that "close to determine" this fee is in the Life Environment Protection Act in Article 88, paragraph 2, where it is said: "Cities and municipalities can provide special means for protecting and improving the environment from their rights and duties". This is obviously not a precise position enough, so it is necessary to regulate this kind of fee through the Law on Local Self-Government, in Article 9 or in some sublaw. Since I have one more minute, so you don't think it's abuse, yesterday I visited our heroes where this bomb, in southern Serbia, was found yesterday, even waiting for engineers to get that bomb out of the way to get there. They welcome you, they stick well, they are in conditions, if you can say it, in the dungeons, the water is down to its knees, they are being heroic, they are saying hello to you and they are asking that this assembly finally put south of Serbia and security on the emergency wallpaper. These same engineers were exposed to sniper fire, those who removed the bombs, removed those mines, we passed, but someone did not allow them to adequately defend themselves. They just serve as clay pigeons.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4455	Here you go, the word is Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. It is absolutely irrational to trust the local community, which is neither humane nor professionally qualified, to deal with bargaining, as well as financial transactions, especially when it comes to the funds that the citizens have entrusted to it, and we are witnessing numerous abuses by local communities. One of the main problems and causes of problems in local communities has just been conflicts over financial resources and abuse of these funds. Very often, instead of communal infrastructure, the funds ended up everywhere, just not for the benefit of the citizens. For this reason, it is not reasonable to allow the local community to negotiate business and financial transactions. Knowing what DOS is, the quality of DOS authorities at local level, meaning that it is a very bad personnel structure, I express my mistrust in the successful functioning of local self-government, and hence the functioning of local communities. There is no greater absurdity than this part of the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides for the possibility of allowing the local community to deal with financial transactions. The absurdity of everything DOS does is its main characteristic and mark. Under this authority, the fate of Serbian citizens will be very uncertain, as DOS has neither responsible nor safe, nor rational, nor capable power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4457	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if democracy defends itself by anti-democratic means, then let us have democracy and let those who use such means may call themselves Democrats. This is one of the axioms of democracy, and since I realized that people in DOS things, when it comes to democracy, which they are so called upon, they haven't learned, every time I go out, I'm going to read you some axiom. It wouldn't be bad for you to record it once in a while, since you're gonna need it. When it comes to this amendment that I have submitted on local communities, the best ones are the elections that were held in Kikinda, twice repeated, for the selection of local community councils. For the first time, 18% of citizens went to the polls, and the second time the number was much smaller. It is about the elections that were held on the principle of election for the committees. There is some attitude and what opinion citizens actually have on local communities, so this amendment is therefore completely clear and fully acceptable. As much as it can be problematic and hasty decentralisation and desire to break something suddenly overnight, while we have state problems, and these very serious problems that are absolutely incompatible with hasty decentralisation, last time I started reading to you a letter from the citizens of Choke, with everything that's going on there. This letter vividly and clearly shows all the problems that can come with hasty decentralisation in some parts of our country. I told you that the holiday of Hungary is celebrated, that the day is not working in Choca, in the municipality, when the holiday of Hungary, the festival of the anthem, is spoken in Hungary, and I will only continue with a few more sentences that fit into it and show how serious the situation is in local self-government. On that day, on March 15, 2001, a great celebration was held in the House of Culture in Choka, at 1900 hours, in honor of the independence of the country of Hungary, and was organised by the Cultural Educational Centre of Choka, whose director is Latimir Tibor. They wore badges with flags of the Hungarian state. The programme itself began by playing and singing anthem of the Hungarian state, with representatives of the Hungarian embassy present. We wonder, in which state our municipality is located, our place of Choka, because none of the Hungarian nationalities present, which marked and celebrated the national holiday of the Hungarian state, was born in Hungary. No one has been moved from Hungary to celebrate the holiday of their country. All of these are the citizens of Yugoslavia and the citizens of Choca, who act as if this place is located in Hungary. Is it possible that none of the authorities are responding to the experience of this kind...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4458	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4459	Is it possible that even representatives of the new DOS government, who are calling for democracy, for justice, for truth, for the rule of law, and for others to close their eyes to such events and allow the state to collapse, and for Serbs and other citizens who are not Hungarian nationalities to become citizens of the second order in their own country? In which country in the world the municipal authorities, so-called The local government celebrates the state holiday of another country. This can be done by individuals at home, in their homes, if they feel like nationals of another country, but like this publicly, organised, these are difficult provocations, it is the challenge of the Serbian and the rest of the German nationalities living in this place. With the behaviour of the local government in Choka, with this tolerance of the authorities that should react, part of Vojvodina will soon become Kosovo, and Serbs and other citizens of the non-German nationality, citizens of the second order...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4460	Mr. Bliss, please return to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4461	..... Here, I'll end up soon, because it obviously doesn't interest you and you don't understand the seriousness of the problems up in northern Serbia. I'll just say two or three more sentences. "Serbs get fired, Hungarians are hired, and that's the leadership post, as directors, despite the fact that they've been fired from work before as thieves and criminals. The latest example is the election for members of the Choka local community council, which are foreseen by the municipal decision on the education of local communities as elections for MPs in the Serbian Parliament. In this decision on the education of local communities, the Ministry of Local Self-Government, and now the Ministry of Justice, confirmed and delivered its opinion twice that the decision was not in line with the Law on Local Self-Government and as such directed the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia to assess constitutionality and legality. Regardless of all the warnings, the president of the municipality, without respecting the ministry's decision, has made a decision to call elections in the Choko local community. The elections took place on 18 March 2001 and, as the lists of candidates showed, were party and unilateral. The councils of the local communities have been established, normally in these councils of no place for Serbs, nor for any other. With this and similar events, we want to get to know and warn anyone who can react. Just one, please understand that this is not a game, this is our life, our life in our country, because we don't have others." It's a letter from the citizens of Choke. You call yourself that's not a topic. Gentlemen, this is a very serious topic, as well as a subject, given that this point is exactly the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4462	Here you go. I once again ask the MPs, these are really very serious, but they're not on the agenda today, so please stick to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4463	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the amendment and additions of the Law on Local Self-Government, to Article 9, behind the word "municipality" is the point, and the rest of the text is deleted. Explanation. In order to give greater independence to municipalities, i.e. cities in deciding on the degree of burden on the debtors from their territory, as well as greater independence in deciding on the purpose of public income-based funds, so that I understand somehow, but to pay those funds at the expense of local communities, is a great nonsense. This law should determine the concept of local self-government, local self-government units, their bodies, local self-government affairs, property and resources issues, local self-government issues, public relations issues between state authorities and local self-government bodies, issues of protection of local self-government, forms of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government, electoral actions, the content of the statutes of units of local self-government, as well as other issues of importance for financing the local self-government system. When it comes to the jobs that the municipality is doing, the law is required to state these matters from: urban planning and construction, through municipal activities, culture, education, public information and civil protection. This law should accurately define the scope and content of the original affairs and the independence of municipalities in their realisation. Also, there is a need to regulate the degree of funding through taxes and self-income, as well as specific forms of funding. This law does not precisely resolve the relationship in municipalities with the national mixed population. If we go into history, we'll see that the cludent in centralised and decentralisation went both left and right and therefore needs to learn the right lessons. If we look back from 1945, we started to centralize the Stalinist type, and then we thought that the clan should have gone the other way, so we moved on to an experiment that was admired by the whole world and tons of total decentralisation -- self-government. After it's been seen that it's not right again, we're back to total centralization, and now we want to go back to total decentralisation. In Europe, there are two models of local smoo administration - the French and English centralised models, or decentralisation, although the movements in Europe are that these models are approaching one another. The only real criterion for assessing the performance of the local self-government model is the degree of economic, social, political and cultural development of local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, here individuals advocate financial autonomy that actually represents the creation of autonomy. It is absolutely irrational to trust a local community that is not staffed and professionally trained to deal with bargaining, as well as financial transactions, especially when it comes to the funds that the citizens have entrusted to it, and we are witnessing a number of abuses by local communities. That's why I think the funds need to be channeled to the municipal budget, and the executive authority will point where it is most needed. Ladies and gentlemen, I will paint you the work of local structures in the Sabbath community. Despite warnings and well-intentioned criticism, which, in previous days, reached the address of the municipal DOS government in Šapec, remained blind and deaf. This time, the DOS remained on the sidelines of legal legitimacy, which it has been pro-chlostically advocated since the beginning. The economy is not launched, and this people are not living better, as promised in the election campaign, but worse, compared to the previous period. Instead of dealing with the launch of economic capacity and local infrastructure, certain municipal powers are linked to suspicious economic transactions, such as a recently free customs zone, in which nepotism and family ties flourish, of course resulting in a certain material individual benefit. That's why I think this institution as a legal body is in control of the work of local structures, not giving them even greater authority to abuse positions. The latest event that took place in the Sabacan municipality is the inappropriate shift of individual principals of primary and secondary schools. The man who is the most responsible for preserving the cultural image of the town of Sapca, Mr. Jakov Zivanovic, wants to be removed from the post of head of the school only because he is a member of the second party, although he has shown by his knowledge that he is one of the most worthy personalities of the city. The school council in the referendum voted his trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4464	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4465	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as local communities are concerned, the question first and foremost is whether local communities should exist, first and foremost because local communities are not units of local self-government, but local communities are under the Law on Local Self-Government only as a possibility that municipalities can take advantage of. In particular, it is decided whether or not local communities will be educated in the territory of the municipality. So it's just a possibility. Then, there is no legally prescribed procedure for selecting the local community's authorities, but that procedure is also determined by the municipalities' parliaments by their own decision. The question then arises which is the role of local communities, if we know that municipalities, for areas of some villages, if they have them on their territory, are educated by local offices which, as units of local self-government, do all the administrative work in that territory. Therefore, the local community does not have that function, if the obligation is for municipalities to perform municipal construction and maintenance activities throughout the municipality. The question arises - why should the local community be educated in this area as well. We come to the answer that local communities only exist when there is the possibility of self-intribution. And when we go back a little bit to the past and we see how the local communities worked, how the money came into play, we see that the meat communities collected the largest amount of funds just through self-dependence. Self-deliveries were mainly called for the construction of some municipal systems, for the construction of a water network, for the construction of a sewage network, for the introduction of a telephone, for electricity, or for a similar job that was of interest to citizens in the area of the local community. In most cases, money embezzlements have occurred. The local community arranged a deal with a performer, the contractor finished the job half way, took over the entire amount of money that was scheduled, there was embezzlement. At times, citizens used to pay themselves for the same job, and the job was never done. You have a large number of examples in Belgrade's local communities, I mean those communities from the rural area. Afterwards, local communities used to sign off on that self - contribution whenever they lacked money for other jobs, which they considered to be more important, so self - contributions were fictitiously called out. Some have left their posts immediately after the failure of their work in self-delivery, reorganised a choice for the council of the local community, and the choice for the council of the local community is organised by two opposing groups, who gather more people, who get louder, becoming president of the local community because they have a majority in the council. It was literally done on the arm. People who do not live in the area of the local community are often dragged in. So, a completely unsettled way of choosing and managing local communities has existed so far, and in this way you will only motivate those foreign furniture to retake power in their local communities so that they can discuss a self-help for something they already think of. The question is, what are the municipalities going to do? If local communities are going to sign off on self-dependence, then what's the community's business? Because municipal budgets are already charged from some of the revenues citizens pay. From what a citizen pays through a municipal fee, through some other fees paid locally, municipalities are obliged to do all these jobs in the area of municipal construction. If they're still gonna have to pay directly for what they need, then there's someone extra. Either it's an extra municipality or it's an extra local community, or we can introduce the local community as the first degree of local self-government, so we can have a two-degree local self-government, or we can submerge the local communities. I believe that a more rational solution is to abolish the local community completely, but since this is not on the agenda now, as a first step towards abolishing the local communities, I believe that they should be prevented from introducing self-delivery or at least leave an old solution that will allow some other professional authorities to use dedicated self-dependencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4466	Here you go, Mr. Vujić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4467	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as many as ten minutes ago, Mr. Chairman warned Mr. Blazic that these were serious topics, but they are not on the agenda today. He only doesn't say when he'll be on the agenda, since he's accepted that they're serious. Since the local communities and municipalities, on the agenda of the Choko municipality, are the subject, I am not surprised by the warning given to you by Mr Blazic, that you are not surprised that in one municipality in Serbia, at an official meeting, when marked, an anthem of another state is performed, after all, the anthem slowly enters your ears, and I keep mentioning those segenium sessions you have. Except for the great indoctrinations there, there are obviously some intoxications, in Segedin, and apparently that this anthem will be nicer to you than the one this country has, and take from all the events to remind you of, read, what eight municipalities in northern Serbia have done to you last week in Vienna, not in the need for cultural, economic, commercial, economic and other persuasions, but purely on a political basis, which you obviously allow. But what DOS is, it's not even weird. As regards the amendment to Article 9 of this Act, I have submitted the same amendment as the previous dozen debaters from the members of the SRS, because what has moved us to submit this amendment lies in what is called practice. There's practice and practice in this country that says what's good and what's bad about being implemented in practice and what's theoretically imagined. Practice should be the only measure for some future theorists, for those in some future theoretical settings to take such laws as the basic and most valuable measure. However, you did not consult practice. You've done something that can't even be legally justified. The amendment says that after the words of the municipalities, the "point and text" should be placed on any possible income that the local community needs to make to delete. For that reason, there is more, and the basis is one that says - I repeat the Constitution of this state of Serbia, and you do not know that in the state of Serbia, you of DOS are nowhere to be predicted and not to know the legal entity of the local community. There's local self-government. In the Law on Local Self-Government, there is a provision on the local community as a possibility that it exists. Back in 1988, until the 8th session, where the vast majority of today's DOSs were defeated by those forces that were defeated in the September and December elections, means in the party state, the party state has transferred as some basic party cell to the local communities. That's what you're reintroducing. The law on local self-government, which was brought in thanks to the SRS, allowed only the possibility of a local community within local self-government. She's not required under the Constitution. And the Constitution is a lex superior in this country, at least remember that. Why not the local community? The first and basic thing, in the vast majority of municipalities, regardless of what is the municipality in all of Serbia, there are even secretaries of the local communities within local communities, and some even lead a double duty, so that the presidents of the council or the assembly are appointed as secretaries of the local communities, and they are doing the most basic service. In the vast majority of suburban settlements, i.e. in rural areas, there are only local offices as a basic service for residents of these suburban settlements. In cities, even in the vast majority, local communities don't even exist. You all know that. Now we're reintroducing something -- that local communities will also be able to generate certain funds and have autonomously and independently. We keep saying -- what does practice say, how many times do you know there have been certain deviations, that there have been major abuses in the means these local communities have and how local communities are chosen. Is it how MPs are chosen in this congregation? Is that how the council is elected in the SO? Like where. So it's neither legally regulated nor legally formulated. Something that is not regulated you are now rejecting, and you are allowing something to be earned and that people who work in local communities, who are not qualified enough and professional enough, will now be able to keep up with individuals, and not all of them are residents of that local community, to continue to do these abuses. After all, it's all contradictory with the future law that we're going to be working on, and that's the profit fund, where you predict that municipalities will have certain resources. Taxes, taxes, taxes, and just hacks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4468	There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the Law on Local Self-Government was passed in 1999, Serbian radicals in the Government of People's Unity advocated that local communities should not, as any form of civil organisation, provide for by law. First of all, because we had a great experience of the abuse of local communities for political purposes and that the local communities were lying in financial malfeasances in the previous period, when the Socialists had in most municipalities power. It is obvious that between the Socialists and the DOS there is no big difference in the understanding of local communities, because both are close to the Cardelian system because the local communities are practically the rest of the Cardelian system. My colleagues talked about the fact that the local community is not a constitutional category, that the Law on Local Self-Government is intended only as a possibility, and I will remind you of what the law says about local communities and why if citizens decide to form them, they are organised - primarily in order to satisfy the need for direct common interest for citizens in a particular area. The municipality, therefore, can, in the opinion of the citizens of the area previously obtained, educate the local community, in accordance with the statute of the municipality. We have not yet recorded the case of citizens' opinion being obtained - whether they need it or not. Generally, congregations of municipalities make decisions, or even without that decision, local communities are formed. I witnessed the formation of a local community of Zemun Polje, which has about 20,000 inhabitants in Zemun, there were 50 citizens present. The council member from the area called on his contemporaries, his party colleagues, to form a council of the local community. The goal was to form a local community as soon as possible, to obtain revenues from the collection of drinks and other services, which they took over as a self-called local community, and such a local community was tolerated by SO Zemun. What I think is a special failure of this law is, above all, giving importance to local communities, which at this point, since municipalities in Serbia are mostly small municipalities, with a small number of inhabitants, and, in view of our citizens' paid ability, to meet these needs, which they should meet. From whom today, of which citizens, besides all these taxes we have imposed on them, are we going to take another dinar, say, to build some road in my Securic, or to build a water line, or anything else? The justification for the existence of local communities in such municipalities, for example in the rural area, absolutely does not exist because our villages, the most numerous, have, for example. about 1,000-2,000 residents, or 400-500 households, and what can these households, even allocate some funds, with that money to do? There's nothing I can do. That's what led us, and me and my predecessors, to ask for this amendment to be adopted. If self-supply and called, it is only one source of local community income, in addition to those transferred by the municipality to the local community, but it is mainly for financing the salary of the secretary of the local community, or for paying communals, electricity, water, office materials. So it's self-dependence that counts as the basic income of the local community. Self-sufficient is in this situation, after all these tax laws, something that absolutely needs to be abolished by the Law on Local Self-Government, because our citizens no longer have the money to finance their own needs. If they stand out to fund local self-government, if they single out for the financing of the republican budget, the federal budget, they expect the local self-government, or the republic, to get something in return. But if they need to solve some of their basic communal problem, they need to be asked again to raise money -- there's no money in our citizens, and if that money in some richer environments and comes to the expense of the local community, then there's no way that money flow can be further controlled at all. Abuses are something that is a very common phenomenon, and the congregation of the municipality is usually not interested, or there is no control over the use of these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4470	Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 19, against 164 abstentions, there was no vote 18, a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a Law, which is proposed to amend Article 80. The law. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. He doesn't accept. ) Do the applicants of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4471	In Article 80 of the existing law, Article 10 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, paragraph 7, says: the words "refund for the use of municipal goods" are replaced by the words "independence of the rate of tax on the fund of earnings". With this amendment, we asked that item 14 be deleted and that this area be regulated by a special law, not left to local self-government to regulate the area.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4472	There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4473	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it would be logical if certain responsibilities were returned to the municipalities' congregations, to write down sources of income by law, that the sources of income for all municipalities were equal, that they were not left with the freedom to determine, to determine the tax rate on their own, but that municipalities would then be free of such resources, within the frameworks set by law, whether these were funds for material costs, for employees' salaries or for investments in municipal infrastructure. The DOS government doesn't deal with these issues, it doesn't care. She's looking for a variant of taking as much money as she can from the citizens. The municipalities are left with a freedom of up to 3.5%, to make their own income tax. In large companies, they will actually force companies to change their seats, if they determine the maximum tax, and to concentrate companies where the tax is minimal, for example. 1%, or half percent, or 10%, etc. That is one problem that is also in connection with this further insistence of the DOS government on self-sufficient contributions. Where do you charge self-debt when citizens don't have money? Since they're already very burdened with new tax obligations. Who's going to control that referendum on self-delivery? There's no way to control it. Until now, whoever called a referendum on self-delivery has decided on his outcome. He prescribed 70%, 60%, 80%itd, no one alive can control it. It's not an election where there's a possibility of party control. In the election, a whole series of malfeasances were also falsification of election results, etc. Here, municipalities should not be left free to sign new taxes, whatever these duties are called, whether they are taxes, whether they are taxes, whether they are self-deliveries, it must not be left to them, and should not be left at their will to leave the level of tax rates for the already existing taxes. We're just gonna talk about that tax, and now we're talking about the height of the rate. So it's upside down too. No tax has been introduced, and there is already a debate on the height of the rate. The previous tax rate law on the total profit fund, and only then is it on our agenda tax on the total profit fund, and that is also pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4474	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment of MPs Stamenkovic and Cvetanovic to the vote. For 58, against 130, no one abstained, 15 did not vote, a total of 203 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government in general. For 137, against 60, one abstention, six did not vote, a total of 204 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Tax Code ON FOND ZARADA You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as amendments submitted by MPs Bozidar Vučurović, Petar Jojić, Miroljub Veljković, Stevo Dragisic, Tomislav Nikolic, Dusan Ilic, Marko Culibrk, Veroljub Arsic, Ljubomir Kragović, Bozidar Vujic, Slobodan Janjic, Borislav Pelevic, Natasa Jovanovic, Dragan Markovic, Živko Selaković, Jovan Deretić, Vojislav Obradović, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Finance Committee. At a session of the Committee on Finance of the Amendments submitted to Article 4, MP Dusan Ilic and MP Borislav Pelevic gave up on behalf of a group of MPs. Since the principled review of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search and before moving to a decision on the draft law in principle, we need to make clear on Parliamentarian Dragan Jovanovic's proposal for a vote on this bill to be made by appeal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 61, against 121 abstentions, there were no, no 20 votes, a total of 202 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I put the draft tax law on the fund in principle on the vote. For 136, against 55, a abstentioned one, not voted 11, a total of 203 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The MPs Bozidar Vucurović, Miroljub Veljkovic, Bozidar Vujic and Slobodan Janjic submitted to the amendment in the same text. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, five minutes ago we adopted amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. Let's talk about the procedure a little bit. In that law we defined the original local income, so-called. tax on the fund, which means it goes directly into the budget of the municipality. In this law, we have defined that this amount is 3.5%, and only now are we talking about the tax law on the fund. It's a disaster. There's a lot of you here who are presidents of the council of municipalities. Now I'm asking you openly, how in the budget did you plan a tax on the fund, and how much information I have, so all the municipalities have adopted the budgets. We haven't talked about that tax yet. I am convinced that this congregation will reject him. You, Mr. Djelic, should take care of one legal procedure. So, if we were going to do that, to introduce this tax, it was supposed to be on the agenda first, and then later on, this law. With my amendment, I suggested that the law not be put into congregation procedure at all. Proposed tax, so-called The tax on the fund is another terrible imposition for the economy and the citizens, and worst of all, be careful what's worst, it's not meant to be. There's no telling what it's going to be spent on. You in DOS in the pre-election campaign promised municipalities greater economic independence than the state. I agree that municipalities get greater tax authority, i.e. to provide the municipalities with significantly higher tax resources in their budgets. We Serbian radicals only agree with that. But unfortunately, you in the election campaign weren't telling the truth. Why am I saying that? That was seen when the Republic budget was adopted this year. Instead of leaving most of the sales tax to municipalities, why 15, 16, 17, 18, 19%, as it was in previous years, why didn't you leave the municipalities to participate in sales tax 50, 60, 70%. You didn't do it. So you need money in the republican budget and then you can practically see that it was the most ordinary bluff in the election campaign. Talking about higher economic ingenuities of municipalities etc., it's very popular when you're in opposition. But when you take over the state administration, it's a little harder. You accused the previous government of going to Belgrade, and now you've done exactly the same thing. This so-called. By taxing on a fund, you're bluffing the municipalities. It's like some funds are going to exist in companies, or municipalities, after a tax package like this you've adopted. What's he gonna do, for example? The congregation of the Kragujevac municipality, let's get her, pick her up from this tax? What will the King, Ruška, Alexandrovac, Novi Pazar pick up, and if I don't count all the municipalities in Serbia, what will they collect from this tax? You are fully aware that economic activity in Serbia has completely died. Profit funds, especially by introducing taxes on the so-called so-called gross salary, practically, it won't exist. They'll collect state taxes and contribute to gross wages, and what they'll get from that profit fund, we'll see. I don't know if you hear this Hook from Kragujevac. You should listen to all of Serbia and see what's going on in Serbia's economy. Another reason why this law should not be adopted is that by this law, you are practically abolishing the existing solution. I was prevented from talking about it because it was the first or second item of the agenda, the Law on Local Self-Government, so I'm going to say something about it. Practically, you are removing an existing solution to two local public revenues, i.e. Compensation for the use of municipal goods of general interest and means for solid residential construction. So, by introducing this tax on the fund, you'll end those two local incomes. These two local public revenues were strictly dedicated and gave extraordinary results in the previous period. I'm saying they've given remarkable results. Just to remind you, tens of thousands of apartments of solidarity were built and assigned to citizens for use in the previous period. Tens of thousands of families got a roof over their heads from those funds. It's a big deal for every country. By solidizing all our employees, we solved the housing problems of socially endangered people. Amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and the introduction of this tax, so-called tax on the fund, you cut it out. The fact that your amendments, meaning, to the government's amendments, recommending municipalities to channel some of the funds to these purposes, means nothing. (President: Time. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. So it doesn't mean anything at all. Knowing your human resources in the municipalities, I am absolutely certain that in all municipalities it will be a maximum amount of 3.5% and I am absolutely certain that these funds will end up in the salaries of the municipalities. Here's what we can bet on right now. So the amendment is general. If there's no special account where these assets are being pooled, let's say for a solid residential building, and if strictly not controlled by the spending of those funds, it's absolutely nothing, it's fog. For these above reasons, I suggest that you accept my amendment and that we do not consider this bill at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4476	He has the word of Ambassador Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4477	Ladies and gentlemen, it would be best to accept this amendment and to withdraw the law on the introduction of income tax from the procedure, because it's probably that drop that adds to the already overworked glass. This law strengthens the financial power of municipal bureaucracy, and there is no guarantee that this money will be used on purpose. Earlier, when it was charged for the use of municipal goods of general interest, it was directed to build municipal infrastructure, and contributions to a solid residential building went to the building of apartments of those who were the worst inhabitant. We all know that there was also malfeasance with apartments that were built on the basis of solid housing. But those malfeasances never crossed the number of apartments that were really assigned to the most residential. All malfeasances should be established and prosecuted. No one does that. No one here in the light of the new law has reported how many apartments of solidarity have been built over the past years, how properly divided, and how irregular, so little we have in mind. You are now terminating the separation for a solid residential building, and you recommend to municipalities, not obliging them but recommending them to consider using that money to build apartments for those whose apartments are most needed. There's no legal obligation to really do this and there's no law-based, legal direction on how to dispose of those apartments. That's what's wrong here. You forget that in the current Law on Local Self-Government so far, there are a whole series of municipal taxis. You don't cancel those communal fees. There are 15 of them here in the law itself, and there's quite a broad formula, so in practice, it's a lot more. All these communal taxes survive. What's going on in practice? For example, from owners to owners of a temporarily built facility, if he accidentally exceeded the amount he was marked on his temporary construction permit, they charge two stamps per square metre per month. That's exactly what they prescribed. We know this from Belgrade practice and we know from Zemun practice. That's how the poor people are prescribed, under the threat of destruction they're forced to pay. If it is 100 or 150 marks a month, it is already sufficient reason for many of them to shut down the shop. It was a social valve. The construction of temporary facilities on public surfaces was an important social valve that freed the labour market and allowed refugees to feed themselves, themselves and their families. You forget that. This is how you strengthen that timed social bomb and speed up its explosion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4478	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word of Ambassador Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I have proposed that Article 1 of this law be deleted, and therefore the whole law is withdrawn from the assembly procedure. The first reason for this is to remove the foundation for solid residential construction and to leave the municipalities and bodies of local self-government at will whether to build or not to build apartments. If he's not going to build, there's no sanctions in this law. That's why I said that the introduction of a 3.5% income tax actually introduced a type of Belgrade tax of 3.5% now, not 3% as it was in Belgrade, and not as it was in Belgrade, a dedicated tax, but completely left to local self-government authorities on the will to spend that money, and they will certainly spend it on salaries. It is explained that the amendments are not accepted for reasons why one of the objectives of implementing public finance reform in the Republic of Serbia is to abolish a number of dedicated taxes and taxis. You haven't abolished the purpose taxes and taxes, you've abolished two of these occasions, but you've left a dozen others that local self-government can kill. It was in all the newspapers, in all your texts on the abuse of solid housing funds in all cities and municipalities in Serbia, especially in Belgrade. We read the other day that a special commission had made an insight into the allocation of these apartments in Belgrade and that some five apartments were given to people who, by some criteria, might not have been able to get them. If there were abuses, then sanction those abuses. You file charges, you punish, you take those apartments back. Besides, people won't even need apartments anymore. On Saturday, I got a settlement on the 63 square-square tax, I guess by party membership first in the country, for which I've paid 800 dinars so far, and now 6,500 dinars. But I don't think that tax difference will affect the cost of living. Mr. Minister, 6,500 dinars, I'll bring you a tax solution to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4480	He has the word Mr Jovanovic, then Mr Vujic, then Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4481	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seems to me to be constantly repeating a situation that has been characterised by a lack of understanding of the proposal with which the Government has come before Parliament and, at the same time, a tenorous interpretation of everything that has happened in the past. So, I don't think anyone can add up how many times we've denied here the criticisms that are directed towards the policy that we're leading towards the Housing Solidarity Fund. The Fund will also exist in the future, with resources that will be significantly greater than the funds it has so far. What is the guarantee of my claims? It is precisely the fact that the tax base is extended, the fact that the Fund will have the resources stemming from the tax payable on gross wages. I have here a proposal, for example, the funds of a solid housing fund, which is available to the municipality of Arilla. Based on the draft law that lies before us today, the municipality of Arilla will stand out in the name of the Fund, the cost of the Solidarity Fund, the amount of funds of 10% of the municipality's budget. So 10% of the municipality's budget will be allocated through the legal option assumed by this bill. The opposition has the right to give any kind of criticism, but when we talk about this fund, about the income tax, then it is necessary to honestly and openly say that this tax proposal excludes those commitments that existed until now. So no more taxis and taxes, no more paying taxes on municipal systems, no more paying taxes based on the solidarity fund the way it's done so far. We have a very clear and open system of collecting income through taxation of local self-government funds, with it being a much fairer and more concrete system of taxation, since it understands different degrees of economic development, from local self-government to local self-government. It is much more correct to prescribe 3.5% on a fund of earnings at the level of a certain local self-reliance than to define from the level of the Republic a certain percentage which is binding on each municipality, regardless of the standard of citizens who must present such a thing as tax burden. So this is what we are trying to introduce a new practice, counting in advance and taking into account, above all, all those bad tendencies and trends that have been established until the arrival of DOS into power, but in view of the awareness of our society and the ability of citizens we are counting on at the moment. There is no doubt that problems, for example, temporary objects are serious problems and there is no doubt that citizens have reached out for them to and resolve their social issues, in order to define a better quality future, but if someone under a temporary facility, instead of a maximum of 30 m2, raises an object of 600 m2, if they do so from the highest quality material, if it is done on land that is certainly not the land on which such a thing can be found, then of course we are obliged to sanction such a thing, whether it is done with the consent of the former government's representatives or not. So, we will very responsibly, fill in those budget gaps that exist at the moment, among other things, through the relationship to such a kind of problem in the way he assumed and pointed out by Mr. Seselj. But we are not going to break something unspeakably and leave people without bread on the street, nor are we going to degrade the law at the same time, since it was obviously broken in concrete situations and most often in those municipalities where the representatives of today's opposition were in power. So all we do is show confidence to both citizens and their representatives in local self-government. Any kind of dispute may make sense, but it cannot in any way limit this endeavor of ours, because we simply don't believe that our citizens are incompetent. We do not believe that citizens alone can control the spending of funds that they have allocated at the level of local communities, we do not believe that at the same time the municipalities in which we do government will not use the legal possibility provided by the service, or the local community service, which is required to provide any kind of service to the local community, so to help them in situations where they do not have that kind of knowledge that is necessary for the implementation of the law that we are adopting here today. But it's a process of change, it can in itself be painful, but it can't possibly be a path to the state in which we were... (President: Time. ....... until 5 October or 23 December. So I'm convinced that we're not wrong when we propose this, and I'm convinced that all those criticisms we're facing are not criticisms that rest on arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4482	Replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Cedomir Jovanovic has confidence in self-government. The basic axiom of self-management was that citizens in local communities and employees of working organisations decide for themselves. And that project led us to this break-in. Now you'd be part of that project if you kept it. First, Labus hinted in October at a month of self-government renewal in social property enterprises, and you are now rebuilding the local community, believing that citizens can control the muggings, clans and the mafia. It can't. The Mafia, the clans, can only be controlled by some law, depending on who the law applies. Since the law now applies to those who are the most encumbered in crime, such as Dusan Mihajlovic and the like, we cannot expect the mafia to get in the way. Here, you who have promised the people the abolition of many taxes, now you've abolished dedicated taxes and contributions, and you've turned them into non-intentional. It was easier for a citizen if he had to pay for a solid housing building than when the same percentage now stands out for something he doesn't know what it is. He now does not know where his money will be spent, and if he believes in a nice word, on your recommendation that the municipalities will apply it as you might like or as the citizens would like, then now Cedomir Jovanovic is here giving us information from Aryl, because there they know in advance which law will be passed, so they are applying it in advance. That's the essence of your authority. As for the construction of temporary facilities without permission, or with over-authorization, which by law could amount to a maximum of 30 square meters, many have exceeded it. You know, it was the most done where you ruled, the former coalition "Together," or where Covic ruled. To me, these socialists are so intolerable that I could speak ill of them for hours and hours, but the worst among them is now in your ranks. That's the problem, and that's why I don't have time for them right now. I have to deal with you. Covic introduced this model of over-registration of temporary facilities permits and allowed the construction of facilities without permission, according to certain private criteria, stretching members of his mafia. Then it grew into practice... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... because in the past four years, only you have ruled in the central Belgrade municipalities and radicals in Zemun. There were these facilities everywhere, they were everywhere, because the social crisis demanded it and the fact that it had been a terrible privilege to get permission to build a temporary facility before. It was once an incredible privilege. Only the chosen could get it. There has been liberalisation, and this liberalisation has to experience legalisation, but not by kidnapping the poor, but in one rational way, depending on why it was built and how much it was built, but not by letting every municipal bureaucracy decide freely how much it will take, but by the Law on legalisation and everything is neatly arranged. Law on legalization... (President: Please bring the end. ....... temporary facilities, so that what you would say to DOS is "transparent," that people can see through the law what awaits them, not in every community local bureaucracy to assess how much money she needs and kidnaps under the threat of destruction. It's being kidnapped under the threat of collapse. It's the worst threat a man can face if there's no threat of life being deprived.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4484	The word has Minister Djelic, then MP Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4485	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, just three reactions to several previous exhibitions. First of all, property tax. We are here to some extent to intimidate our citizens, as was the case with the sales tax that was supposed to destroy the standard, which was meant to bring enormous inflation, which was meant to lead to the hunger of our citizens. We've been living three weeks with that sales tax. If we look at the effects we see that there are no large price increases, however, in some foods and some things there are, but we see that many stores have used this to even take down prices on a few dozen very important products for our citizens. As for the property tax, what's going on? We have a synchronization like every other year for so-called. Market value, which will actually follow strict inflation this year. So for all our citizens, they won't pay more than what's harmonised for the property. The only thing that's happening is that this year those who have much bigger houses, much bigger apartments will pay proportionally more and that's the reasonable progressiveness that we've introduced into our system as anywhere in the world. So, for our citizens, to enter an area of increasing the rate of 0,40% that exists to date, the market value, and that is the one that has been estimated and which is actually somewhat lower in many years, significantly lower than the real market value and that is following what is happening in rural municipalities and other municipalities, they will not cross this area if it is not more than six million dinars. So, just them, and if we take one example, which lives in Belgrade and has an apartment larger than 350 square meters, they're going to start entering the larger-foot zone. So that's one minority of people and they should have very large apartments to start paying proportionally much higher rates. The second thing that was said, it's about means for solid housing. It seems to me that here we see a very smart compromise, a compromise between the important issue of housing and another very important issue, which is fiscal decentralisation. By introducing that rate, which is not defined in advance, but it exists from 0.3 to 1%, we make one smart compromise. There remains solid housing building, but it is left to the local self-government to assess, and I guess that's one citizen control and that's the same democracy at local level, the possibility that local self-government determines, not someone from Belgrade, not knowing exactly what the situation is local, to know how much it takes to separate the funds. Finally, if it is said, for example, about the philosophy of public finances, and it is said that it is much better to have dedicated fees, to know what it is going on, in a few weeks you will get the final budget account in 2000, as well as the first budget control report and you will see the first, and thus the public, that the biggest problems have arisen precisely in these dedicated taxes, precisely in those dedicated taxes, because there has not been enough control of your MPs, including the public. That's where the biggest problems were born. Let's take 3% for the railroad, what was meant to be to restore the infrastructure, and we'll see what the facts are. We'll see if there's anything that's been set aside for the infrastructure and something else. That's why this budget and in many cases tax collection is the right thing to do for democracy, because then it has to be on a dissipated side, both rail and renewal, and it has to go through a budget procedure, reporting to your MPs and the whole public. It's the right way, to control our public finances, and to monitor our citizens for what they spend on and what they need to be spent on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4486	There's no need to remind me of my obligations. I would interrupt Minister Djelic, as I have already interrupted the ministers here when they moved away from the topic, but you spoke here, at least one dozen MPs, about the abolition of the Housing Building Fund and then you can't wait two minutes to answer that question. Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4487	Mr. President, don't attack us by defending Minister Djelic. Minister Djelic came for this pay phone and did not know the law on the agenda. His exposure concerns the abolition of the Solidarity Building Act, he's here in the light of this bill and he talked about it. We did not turn away from the agenda, and Minister Djelic did not speak at all about this law on income tax. He was talking about some other, long-absorbed laws. The profit fund law is directly linked to former liabilities based on solid housing construction and collection of contributions to the use of municipal goods. It's in the most direct relationship. Here's the word that what used to have some purpose is now a means in the hands of bureaucracy. That's where we're having the argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4488	You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4489	You've violated the Rules of Procedure because here you deliberately detenterate what we've been talking about. We spoke in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I gave you proof. You cannot justify Minister Djelic accusing us of violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4490	Mr. Vujic answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4491	Mr. Minister, all of our citizens, all of our citizens of this state of Serbia are normal. This isn't Paris, Mr. Minister. The amendment I submitted to the Bill on Tax on the Fund of Profits, amendment to Article 1, I demand that it be abolished. Amendment 2 requires that the entire law be abolished. What I haven't been able to say for this speaker since the first extraordinary session to this day, here's the chance I'm going to be right now. I must confess to this government for making such a proposal. I call on all citizens in Serbia to pay so much attention to this law that they understand how expertly this government is, how professional it is, how capable it is, and how inexplicable and unprofessional it is. I would suggest that, in the nation, we call this law, instead of the law on income tax, a law on the collection of pots from an empty pot. What is explained in this law, and what will lead some to respect and admiration for imbecileism lies in the reasons for the law. It says - one of the goals of implementing reforms of the Republic of Serbia's public finances is to abolish a number of dedicated taxes and taxis. This law is a new law. By abolishing many laws and passing new laws. So much contradiction from these experts that it's simple to wonder. What the minister has suggested and what we are discussing today is in any case, if not for the conviction, then for the deep analysis and for the extensive consideration. I thought and I was convinced that there are good schools in Paris, that there are high-value schools in Paris to learn something. And today I believe it, I want to believe that Minister Djelic has also graduated from such schools and I am simply surprised that Minister Djelic is forcing me not to believe it, as if he went to courses in Istanbul's amams in Paris, because of constant harassing. Why one of these laws? They were abolished - the compensation used by the municipality for the use of municipal goods of general interest and a contribution to solid residential construction. These two fees and contributions are lifted and this unique law is now being passed. Other municipal fees that the municipality collects, earns and benefits remain. There are strictly defined and defined purposes of these municipal contributions, cuts and taxis. What this law now provides, no one knows what his purpose is. There is a expectation that what has been collected with contributions to solid housing, voluntarily, it is a recommendation, municipalities still, as a certain part of the funds, and now from these new taxes will be allocated. One beautiful, though packed, demagogue, empty story, which Ceda Jovanovic said and that our rapper is Arile, and if it is the rapper, we have 190 municipalities. What is expected soon, that those municipalities bordering with Ariel should direct their homeless to Ariel and that they should rush into that Ariel and, thank God, solve their housing problem. But where you put into this law an obligation, not a recommendation, which will use this kind of funds. Where is the obligation of solid housing? When we talked about the House Bill, that's what the MPs of the SRS told you, even the part that separates for the families of the dead, who participated in the war conflicts between 1991 and today, there won't be any in the municipalities. What will be unknown to citizens will be paid a tax of 3.5%. Where the funds go, no one knows. Only those who will use it know. Local municipal leaders and powers. That's not what it's been until now. Now this DOS government has given the possibility of further manipulation and malfeasance. What the amendment proposes is the abolition of this article, the removal of the entire law and the withdrawal from the procedure, is an analytical thinking, which you have not done, and the reintroduction of what has strict purposes. There's no such thing here, and that's why it really is the collection of pots from an empty pot. That's why this is really harassing, harassing, harassing. Someone in Bulgaria drove the minister away, and he said himself - Socialists. Someone in Russia drove the minister away, and he said it himself - the mob. Here you give it to all citizens of Serbia to be rabbits in its constant studies and in some constant desire for harassing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4492	The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4493	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not a matter of this bill on our efforts to establish self-government in society. On the contrary. This is a serious step in relation to everything that was the legacy of the time we parted with. It's simple, it's about the trust of the citizens and their elected representatives. Why take away representatives of citizens in municipalities, including the local community, a responsible performance towards all things, and among other things according to the means available on the basis of self-sufficient contributions issued at the level of the local community and in line with the needs of the local community. As for the problem with the Solidarity Building Fund, I just can't understand people who refuse to hear us. So many times we have said that the municipalities will be obliged to allocate 0.3 to 1% of the funds from the Fund and that these funds are significantly higher than those with which they have so far, that it is simply an incredible lack of understanding of such arguments and facts. The case of Ariel is just one concrete proof of the seriousness of what we did. Do we need to present examples, analyses, in each of the 190 municipalities in Serbia, of such percentage mathematics to prove that local self-government will have more resources than it has ever been before? We're not accusing you of a state of local self-government on this matter right now. We can discuss individual responsibility for possible abuses and responsibilities arising from the creation of a certain environment in society. But why do you refuse to accept the concrete facts that are just talking about us as a government that is trying to increase the resources of local self-government for solid housing funds, because that is exactly what we intend to develop our construction industry and at the same time to meet the needs of our society, whether it is about disabled war funds or those citizens who are on existing lists as priorities in solving housing problems. So let's try to get Parliament back to reality, to respect the facts that we can talk to and then exchange arguments. It doesn't matter what you've said in your remarks so far, because there's no argument for anything like that. We can take any municipality in Serbia, apply this method, and you will see that the municipality will have more resources. You doubt that, and those funds will be spent on purpose. We warn you in advance that all the facts that we have now contribute to the unintended spending of dedicated funds. Mr Djelic cited an example of a railway tax, all of which are witnesses of the fact that the tax was not spent on building infrastructure in the railway domain. On the contrary, she went to spend and cover other specific needs in society. The government and the Ministry of Finance, i.e. local self-government, will know what resources it has and, in line with the priorities, will spend the funds at a given time. At the end of each year, citizens will have the right to see how these funds have been spent. We do not want to tie up the funds in a dedicated manner and then break the laws unintendedly spending those funds in certain situations. So this is nothing more than the concreteisation of certain fiscal reforms that we are carrying out and the concreteisation that is certainly already in the analysis gives better results than those currently on stage.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4494	Mr Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4495	I volunteered to take advantage of this violation of the Rules of Procedure, so that I too could resist that violation. If Cedomir Jovanovic can speak twice as head of the parliamentary group, so can I. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post -- on the second amendment. No, no, it's the same amendment. The same debate, there was no vote in the meantime. There is no obligation for any municipality in Serbia to allocate any amount of money for solid housing. If that obligation exists, she must write in law, not in your empty verbal promises. You can say anything that comes to your mind behind this pay phone, but it doesn't oblige a single municipality in Serbia. If each municipality needs 10% of its budget to set aside for a solid residential building, then it should be prescribed. But she's not supposed to make a single dollar stand out. So she's left at will. It's easy for Ariel to extract 10%. Ariel is a provincial municipality, where people mostly live in their private homes. Very few apartments are being built. Ariel can't be a dancer for all of Serbia or any big city. Don't call on Ariel. What are you doing with this tax reform? You are overly self-sufficient in local self-government in the matter of obtaining money, instead of being left alone in spending money and the distribution of that money by increasing their competences in health, education, culture, etc. You will now be able to increase the material differences between municipalities. Now the rich municipalities, based on your amended laws, will be much richer, and the municipalities that are poor will go further into poverty. You leave the freedom to collect certain items that were previously controlled by the government just so that in one, you say, a transparent way would be distributed. So the strong municipalities received a smaller percentage, and the weak higher percentage, in order to kind of wave to a certain extent in their financial strength. With reforms like this, you will completely destroy the financial small and weak municipalities. I don't want to talk about black grass. Black grass will have nothing. Or, municipalities that don't have developed tourism, municipalities that don't have a big industry, municipalities that don't have a developed private sector, they won't be able to finance anything. Instead of applying one principle of solidarity through these laws, or you can end those municipalities. You can't leave the municipality without any income in this way, and she can then exist from the air or from the water. You didn't do anything about it. And over here, you allow other municipalities to collect new revenues. Now, that the municipality has a copyright tax, too. Introduce municipal tax on cadastrian income. And now, the Cadastrian income tax, which was 20%, as it was, is now still increasing by 3.5%. That tax on copyright fees, which was 20%, is now increasing to 23.5%. Is that the end of it?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4496	I give my word to the MP, Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic, as rapporteur of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4497	Unfortunately, it's very difficult to argue with the truth more, because no matter how much you use the arguments, they obviously don't apply. And when it comes to local self-government, it's completely the opposite of what we've been listening to in our previous presentation. Namely, your combinations about various types of income to municipal self-government have been assured that even those self-governments, which virtually no human income can achieve in their territory, receive huge revenues from sales taxes and some other basics, so that they can function. That's what this system is about. I've spoken to some journalists and they're asking about local self-government, what's this all about. It's terrible that you haven't heard from any local self-government representatives so far, anyone, that they've objected to a new method of income from local self-government. And you know why he didn't object - because everyone knows he'll have more money than they had. And, uh, whoever wants to, let's do the math. Anyone who wants to see how it is. And how they'll get the money - because the Republic has given up some income. And that's explained. There was 25% local self-government, 75% republic. Now it's 100% local self-government. And those who are the poorest, who finance them -- they are financed by those who have the biggest sales tax, who, on the basis of their sales tax, are at the very least the least, so that the poorest municipalities may have the means. There's even a safeguard mechanism going on -- if these local self-governments can't function from it all, and there's probably ten-fifth of the poorest, to leave them 100% of their local income, to leave them 100% and their sales tax, they don't have enough money, not even for elementary funding. That's 10-15 of the poorest. If you look at the structure of each of these municipalities, how it gets the funds, there are resources that are exactly foreseen, so that they can function. So that's how it is. Of course, around the solidarity fund, so it is known that so far, with all that was planned, nearly half of the municipalities in Serbia could not finance the apartments of solidarity, because the income was low. That's what to think about. First, we need to run an analysis of one of 70 municipalities. We need to do an analysis - whether in their midst this type of apartment is necessary, even though they need to pool funds, which is completely natural. As far as Belgrade is concerned, I will only give one piece of information -- Belgrade with a 3% tax last year had about 220m marks of the city's budget. Of course, for two million people, it's a disaster. When you tell foreign delegations it's the budget of the city of Belgrade, they ask if it's monthly, because it's impossible to do so. Of course, we have to talk about it, because we have some other requirements that we've left behind. Of those 220 million, nearly 60 million were kidnapped by the Republic. Even today, we can't determine where the funds are spent. I hope the finance ministry will finally show us what happened to the 10 million marks that the Republic spent on Belgrade's city budget last year? This year, without a 3% tax, is over 300 million marks. We're completely satisfied. Why? Of course, we are not satisfied because Belgrade needs much more money, but since Belgrade is no longer paying an extra fee, and they have a bigger budget, we must be satisfied. So it's from what used to go, and we'll probably figure out where it went, they're so-called. funds, fees, special accounts, etc. Since this is all in the budget today, people can see, Belgrade will always see exactly, and Belgrade will separate for the apartments of solidarity certainly at least at the level that it has separated previous years, if not more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4498	Is anyone else applying for a discussion on Article 1, in which amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs: Bozidar Vucurović, Miroljub Veljkovic, Bozidar Vujic and Slobodan Janjic? He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4499	Mr. Seselj has injured Article 96. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, and that in his work, which speaks of the misreading of the presentation of MPs. I do not ask the Assembly to vote on this, but I would like to remind those who are criticising us to study the amendments that the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted at a session held on 12 April, which are in favour of our assurance that the funds from the Fund's tax on earnings will just be spent on solid housing. It is the amendment to Article 4(2). As for the case of Ariel, we can continue to explain these allegations. You heard the example of Belgrade. I have prepared a Kragujevec example for those who criticise us. I agree that this is a city in very difficult social conditions, and based on these tax reforms from the city's budget, there will be 43 million dinars for residential solidarity building, or 7% of budgets. That amount is 53% higher than what has been put out so far. It's one of the concrete effects of such a tax and such a proposal, with which we have come before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4500	He has the word Mr. Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Cedomir Jovanovic should first learn that the Rules of Procedure cannot be violated by misreading anything. The one who's wrong in interpreting doesn't break anything, he's just wrong and triggers a possible replica, and nothing else. By misreading nothing can be broken and every MP has the right to misread it, and no one can claim it in this National Assembly. That's what Mr. Jovanovic should learn, since he's been a national MP for a long time, so long that he could read at least 5-6 books and teach these things. Secondly, as far as local self-government is concerned, you're putting things the wrong way. Instead of strengthening competences and responsibilities, you give it independence, relative independence in collecting income by kidnapping from citizens. There, Minister Djelic openly announced your intention. You're decentralizing the tax system and that's contrary to your earlier oath to simplify the tax system. There's no simplification where his decentralisation is done. The tax system must be unique for all of Serbia. If it is not unique, then you leave too much at the will of local powers, local bureaucracy, so there will be, or a competition in reducing tax burdens, which is very unlikely, which is impossible, or a competition in maximising tax burdens, which will be devastating. All the scientists who studied bureaucracy found that bureaucracy for the love of its financial powers neglected the needs of society and citizens. The most dangerous thing is that one society can catch up to is a multiplication of relatively isolated bureaucracy. Bureaucracies should be most controlled on the availability of finances. And you're letting local bureaucratics rise on the freedom to prescribe tax burdens, or tax burden rates, and you're leaving the freedom to sign off on self-deportations that we saw from the previous law, which is directly related to this. That's wrong, because it's going to cause catastrophic consequences. You're here predicting taxation on this basis and cadastrian income, you say you're planning that money for apartments. Why do you take from farmers who don't live in apartments, but live in their homes, which is why you take money from them? Why do you take money from those who earn that money based on copyright fees? You'll take it from a writer, from a scientist, from a poet, so did it come to that, that and from that church of theirs, which is so poor, the minimum is rarely paid, even when it's worth it, another 3% to give on this basis to the municipality where they live. They've already got a 20% tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4502	Is anyone else applying for a discussion on these amendments? Here you are, MP Mr. Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4503	I have submitted an amendment to delete article 1 of this law. This law regulates the obligation to pay taxes on the fund of earnings, on paid earnings and other incomes, established by this law, at a rate which cannot exceed 3.5%. If we know how local self-government has always treated businessmen, we know it's going to be a maximum of 3.5%. None of them are sure to say 0.5, 0.8 or 1%. The income tax is paid in favour of the municipalities, i.e. the city towards the residence of a specific person or another person who generates the income on which this tax is paid. With this amendment, I do not believe that the tax on the fund should be introduced for reasons why another additional tax will be additionally charged by businesses, since the Law on the Tax on the Income of Citizens is burdened at 14%. The additional burden of 3.5% does not fit the announced economic recovery reform. And for which the DOS was declared transparent, and now it's no longer a democratic opposition, one leader said the option, what you'll be next time, we'll see. In the election campaign, you promised everything and everything. If someone knew what you were imposing on the citizens, they wouldn't vote for you either.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4504	Please stick to the subject, so the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4505	What am I talking about? The Martians. The reason for this law is, according to the proponent, the non-transparency of the tax system, as well as its decentralisation. And under the transparency and decentralisation firm, almost all laws are proposed, and in fact it's just a growing burden on taxpayers. By making a decision on how their money will be spent, you leave it to local self - administrations, or congregations of municipalities. I think the purpose of taxation is much better. Of those funds, 3.5% of the earnings paid, income from the independent activity of the Catastrian municipality's income, municipalities can spend whatever they want and what they want. In addition, the proposed percentage is too high and does not correspond to the economic strength of taxpayers. The economy is already burdened by increased allocations on other grounds, and for pension and social and other insurance, let's say when we charge it even more with this percentage on the profit fund, we can expect that the profits are not paid at all. The housing of solidarity will certainly be no more, because there is a obligation for municipalities, or cities, to focus one part of this tax on these intentions. The employees were never against the separation for these purposes. The housing problems of the poorest were solved. I believe that those who have already solved their housing problem through the apartments of solidarity would pay solidarity to solve it for those who can't solve this problem right now. We'd be in solidarity with our neighbors, friends, workmates if they too were the poorest, fundraising, housing, and solving their living problems. In your opinion, it's important to cut the tax, and as funds will be spent, it remains the autonomous right of local self-government, so that citizens don't know what they can expect. Besides, what it costs the government, nobody asks the taxpayers, you just tell them how much they need to pay, how you're going to spend. Not a single explanation. Constantly some black funds, unallocated funds, and the minister will be available on his own, etc. If you really wanted to help local self-government, why didn't you take a little bit so local self-government has a certain percentage of the resources it owns in the municipality's territory. The case works - "Serbishum". In hill-mounted areas, municipalities that have a lot of forests, not a single percent of the "Serbishum" does not give them the use of forest treasure. From the installed power capacity, that part of the percentage belongs to local self-government. This is how you put your hand in the pocket of poor citizens, and it's supposed to come to the budget of municipalities. None of it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4506	Mr. Ivkovic, you asked for a word, so I give my word to MP Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4507	Before we talked about local communities, and we talked more about self-dependence, so we talked about a situation where citizens of a certain local community perceive a particular problem, and above all, these are mainly infrastructure problems that plague them, they decide to allocate certain funds, while giving a certain financial contribution, someone by their work or by working on the means to work. It is clear that this control is absolutely possible, because in the local community itself people know very well, know exactly how much money has been paid, what who has made, how many contributions they have made, and it is difficult to make, above all, in rural areas, any machination in that direction. However, when it comes to taxes at the level of local self-government on gross personal incomes in order to create some practical replacement for an earlier municipal contribution, we will support it as the Socialists of this amendment. It's precisely because we don't think there's enough control, because first of all it's big projects. We are very pleased that the government of the Republic of Serbia, in essence listening to the voice of opposition MPs, has clearly defined the purpose of at least one part of such funds for apartments from the Solidarity Fund. So, in the initial solution that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has delivered, the actual local self-government within the pooled funds could spend these funds for whatever they want, so if you want to pay officials in local self-government. Thanks to the intervention of opposition MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia itself has reserved part of the funds and left room for the purpose of issuing, building apartments, for the solidarity fund. However, the remaining funds are very high and very large projects are possible, especially in cities such as Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad. It is our opinion that we must define a specific purpose for these funds, which is precisely what the amendment is trying to do. Earlier, the government of the Republic of Serbia approved a municipal fee of up to 5%, but maintained the right to verify projects for which those funds were spent. So it was a complete initiative of local self-government to define projects in the field of municipal development, primarily rain collectors, fecal collectors, water supply, the development of certain infrastructure networks, roads, streets, etc., was defined as intended and it was possible to control, on the one hand, the free local self-government to choose which projects would finance as a priority, and on the other hand, it was the knowledge that someone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia would control what was done and it was possible, so to say, the rational investment of such funds. In this way, leaving local self-government to now, by adopting amendments that still define the obligation of separation, which is very good, for the Solidarity Apartments Fund, this space of funds that has no strictly defined purpose gives full freedom to the local self-government to spend it really on whatever it wants, which doesn't have to be the development of municipal infrastructure, which is certainly for citizens and priority. It is clear that such local self-government will fall in the next election, but while citizens welcome next elections, the city and local self-government will fall in the other sense completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4508	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 103, there were no abstentions, no 33 votes, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the 2nd National MPs Bozidar Vucurović and Bozidar Vujic, they submitted amendments in the same text, which suggest the erasure of the article. 2-8. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have not accepted these amendments. Do the applicants want a word? He has the word Mr. Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4509	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament have been under discussion for over an hour now for just one word. If that's how you say it is, if local self-government is going to separate funds into a solid residential building, it's quite simple to solve it in one word -- it's binding. If you don't commit them, you're free of all other stories. The other thing is, we're discussing whether there'll be less money in that fund. No one said there'd be less money. It's normal to have more money, because it's taxing gross earnings. But no one doubted that you would take more money from the citizens. You don't need us to convince that this law is good. You should convince Mr. Djindjic, because he tells you that you are not defending your legal proposals the way you should defend them. I see you killed yourself today to explain how good that is. But that's not good at all. Only 350 squares go progressive tax. That's not true. All over 200 thousand marks are subject to progressive tax. The gentleman says that some municipalities were even given 100% sales tax to use. Really, I didn't see anywhere. If that's true, then it's a huge income for such municipalities, especially in Black grass and in these municipalities where there's no traffic, there's no wages, there's no profit, there's nothing. Only the municipal administration will function. There's always money for the municipal administration. Art. 2-8. It should be deleted and therefore this law should be expelled from the assembly procedure, because it really doesn't make sense if we don't commit local self-government to segregate funds into a solid residential building. To agree, to take 5%, but to say that 2.5% goes into a solid residential building to get people apartments, and 2.5% goes to those purposes that have been from the use of goods of general interest. Just one word - local self-government is binding, and we've solved everything. Then no further discussion under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4510	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr. Vujic, then Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4511	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as regards Amendment 1 to Article 1, its objective and purpose was to abolish the full law, withdraw from the procedure and pass a more elaborate law on this matter and restore what had a clear purpose, a clear purpose and what objectives it was going towards. Amendment 2, which requires the abolition of the Article. The 2-8th is only the support of that first amendment, but I will take advantage of my five-minute discussion to refer to two members, and so on. Four and six. In Article 4, the legislator prescribed what a tax on the fund should look like. However, since the first law, which we have been doing since February until today, has proved his inconsistency and this time has shown it. Not as inconsistencies as much as, in any case, great expertise, so the amendment of the Finance Committee was accepted, the government accepted it and became an integral part of this member and that, conditionally speaking, as a third position, but as an addition to the second attitude. However, the purpose remains the same. The income tax is paid at a rate that cannot be higher than 3.5%. This is obviously written by unmistakable legislators. Find me a municipality that won't take full advantage of the possibilities that allow this law. What municipality won't prescribe 3.5%? Are there any such municipalities? Should we assume that it may be a Belgrade municipality? In February, we lifted that 3% tax on Belgrade. Just as the citizens of Belgrade thought they'd take a break, they didn't have time or turn around, you're dragging their hand back in their pocket, this time 3.5%. What's not built up here and obviously the government doesn't know, because she could think about it before, what we're always telling you is that you've abolished that contribution to the Fund to building apartments of solidarity. Obviously, it was public pressure, not so much as pressure from the SRS, because you're not going to admit it, so here you've installed that part of this 3.5%, and that part in the amount of 0.3 to 1%, is going to be directed at it. Again, nowhere - binding. Which municipality won't take advantage of this 0.3% possibility, and will these new 0.3%, and you have really abolished that contribution, make it possible to build apartments of solidarity? You'll have some recommendations again, you'll have good hopes again, and it'll all end up, everything will go wrong. But besides, you're really like that. I hope, unlike Mr. Ivkovic, that this year there will be elections, that the citizens of this Serbia know very well - and will feel it up to the elections, that your authority - and that change will take place. As for Article 6, he says, "Income tax is paid in favour of the municipality's account." Where's any binding attitude to what it goes? In favour of the municipality's account, it will be large funds, according to the chairman of the Finance Committee, they will be very grateful to the presidents of the municipalities or representatives of local self-government because they will receive certain funds, which can only be used for their own personal needs and funds. In any case, not for the population of these municipalities. Why is that? Where is more what you've abolished - compensation for the use of municipal goods? Will any municipality and will they be so foolish as to be president of any local self-government body or head of any local self-government to bring an investment programme into the municipal sphere? To represent the Republic government. Where's the obligation? She's gone. How can you be sure they'll do that? You're not certain of anything, just what you wanted, howler, howler, howler, howler, is taken from citizens, taken from citizens, taken from citizens and given to individuals. It's a possibility for new robberies and thefts. But, thank God, there's gonna be a choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4512	Here you go, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate on this law in particular must, by force of opportunity, be related to the debate on the previous law that you have adopted so quickly. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, all goods of general interest are owned by the Republic, i.e. the State. As a result, there was a republican tax applicable to the entire territory, with an equal rate, and from that tax each municipality received a certain percentage of the charge on its territory and money could be used strictly for the construction of municipal infrastructure. The municipalities on whose territory little of that money could be collected received at a certain percentage, according to a certain decision, a certain amount, which could also be used on purpose for the construction of municipal infrastructure. Now it's gone, now you've left that money exclusively to the municipalities, and the municipalities of that money can freely dispose and most of that money will go to the salaries of municipal bureaucracy, for the huge salaries of municipal officials. Now here we are talking about Article 2.Proposal of a tax on income, which you prescribe tax up to 3.5% and who your taxpayers are - those who pay earnings within the meaning of a law governing income tax - means an additional 3.5% now you're introducing a basic salary, a warm meal, a regression for vacation, etc., you're further reducing all and so the minimum amounts of which you can't actually live. Then you add 3.5% to copyright holders and industrial property rights, or innovators that we otherwise have very little in our country, and instead of encouraging innovation, to encourage inventors of various patents, you further choke them. On the one hand, you seduced the 20% tax on books, and now the additional authors of these books, novelists, narrators, poets, scientists, you tax additionally their copyright fee, which is already 20%, with another 3.5%. Who are your further bonds of this tax - natural persons who earn income from independent activity. They're mostly faces on the edge of existence. They're individuals who don't even have their own special company registered, and they don't have employees, they're physical individuals who literally barely make up the landscape. They live from today to tomorrow. There are also natural persons who generate incomes from agriculture and forestry. Now an extra 3.5%. Where's the end? There's no end. Now you're actually building an infrastructure to steal money, and while you're building that infrastructure, you're demagoguely promising the people that it won't be a big amount, because the foundations are small. The basics are from an earlier period, and you know that these foundations haven't been changed in years. The next move, as soon as you build the infrastructure, will be to increase the base, and then you will have quite a solid explanation that these foundations haven't changed in years and inflation has done its part. There was a course of stamps, a course of dinars, this, that. Your bosses are right to say that you were disastrously here, Mr. Djelic, representing these tax laws, but get rid of more of this Dejan Popovic, because whoever he advised, he only went from disaster to disaster. Just ask the Socialists how many times he's thoughtlessly brought them into a catastrophic state. I am pleased that you will fall from power very quickly because of this disaster, but I am saddened by the people of Serbia, because of the citizens of Serbia, whose most unexpected situation will be incomparably worse than under previous rule, and they already feel it on their skin. They feel on their skin that the situation is much, much worse than it was before, and you've promised them towers and cities overnight if they show you confidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4514	Mr. Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4515	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, I am obliged to reroute the debate in the Assembly to what is the subject of the debate and, on this argument, to justify those views that have been expressed in the performance of my predecessor. This tax is not introduced for local self-government and local self-government factors to have higher salaries. To all MPs and the public, I am convinced, the very well-known fact is that we are planning to freeze the personal income of all public sector officials, so also officials in local self-government. The maximum salary of the municipality's president in local self-government will be 20% higher than the average salary in the Republic. So that is the maximum, where the president of the municipality has no right to have a higher salary than the council, so they will have the same personal income, or MPs. This is about completely wrong, least of all, interpretation. As for this reference to book tax and copyright tax, it is very clear so far that the Ministry of Culture will work a commission that will distinguish between what is a ham and what needs to be taxed and what is a national treasure and what needs to be nurtured. So, not that they'll be further taxed, but there's no talking about those 20% taxes. And finally, as regards this 3%, 5%, 1%, etc., we abolished: the tax on leaving the country, the solidarity logs, the electricity tax, nine special fees for oil derivatives, three special fees for cigarettes, two special fees for alcoholic beverages, a housing contribution and a communal fee, a 3% tax on railways, a city tax of 3% in Belgrade and a non-alignment agreement since 19 April. We have made a number of adjustments in fiscal policy, made it easier for citizens to spend and at the same time introduced what is necessary to fill out all those blank accounts in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So there is no way to meet and meet the needs of Serbian citizens without taxing those who earn. This tax is certainly a great burden, but it is necessary and it is the way out of the problem in which this society is at this moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4516	Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4517	I support the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party MPs and the explanation for this support I gave in the previous step, but the statement of the president of the DOS parliamentary group motivated me to go out for this pay phone and to mention only the writer Pavic, who decided not to write or publish any more because of these large-scale releases that were given. Says our people - when you don't pay on the bridge, you'll pay on the pot. It is clear to the citizens of Serbia that if they do not pay through a tax on an electric number, that someone still has to work in that television and receive salaries, and as far as we know, those salaries are provided by the Serbian government, not by the hands of the officials, but by the government of Serbia's budget. Again, the same citizens' money goes through bigger taxes, except now the Serbian Television is at Minister Djelic's office, so they probably, every morning, check to see if they're satisfied in the government with how they're conjecturing the programme, especially on today's tragic day when NATO villains killed Serbian Radio and Television workers. About taxes and how many DOS majority in Parliament have freed citizens - a letter from the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of Belgrade, the City Board of Textiles, Skin and Shoes: "The newly adopted tax laws, which have little to do with the real opportunities of the economy, especially in our businesses, because the creators of these laws certainly did not live and work with the poor, will close, at best, 80% of our businesses and so leave thousands of people on the street. "That's what your citizens think about how you decided to charge three and a half times the budget compared to last year. When it comes to salaries employed by local self-government, we think it's a completely wrong move to limit personal incomes. If there is a local self-government where people work in quality, if there is a local self-government where the president of the municipality and his employees in the municipality are struggling to attract those who will invest in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, who will work day and night on the development of the travel economy, the water industry, they should receive higher salaries than in some local self-government where they do nothing. That's where the citizens are supposed to take their shifts. That's the law under point 16. So we'll discuss it when the time comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4518	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a representative of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4519	Let's start with a few facts. The first fact is that when you look at the level of tax, that is, when you look at how some MPs talk about it and I talk about it the same way some previous MPs talk about it, I would say that we've made a decision to cut the tax, the one we're talking about from 3.5%, from 4.3% to 3.5%. So if I were to be incorrect and to comment incorrectly. There's no easy connection for Belgrade's 3% tax with this 3.5% tax. I guess that's how much you know when you read these tax laws. The 3.5% tax is a 4.3% tax substitute. Of course, since I'm being correct, I'm not going to say that we've cut it down, but we've kept it at the same level. So that's the tax that existed and that tax is exactly the same as the one that existed. What's the problem? Before I tell you where the problem is, I'll remind you of something else. Of course, the opposition normally uses this pay phone to tell the truth. Why? Because he wants to say that the position is doing something contrary to the interests of the state, the interests of the people and everything else. That's normal for me. Of course, we don't do that. We don't work because if you look at the figure that's going to be taken from the citizens through all these tax laws, it's going to be smaller than it was the previous year. It's a perfectly clear bill. Why is it going to be smaller? Because in the budget, much of it is planned from funds that are not taken from citizens. That's clear. So, since it's not understood, it's because people don't want to accept it, it doesn't matter. Let's get back to local self-government. It is clear to me why MPs in the opposition speak of local self-government this way, because unfortunately, where they were in local self-government, we have catastrophic abuses of local self-government and it is natural for them to think that they are all like them. We're telling you that not everyone is like them and that in local self-government, what's been going on so far isn't going to happen. After all, local self - administrations have their own congregations. Local self-governments present to their congregations their budgets, present spending. Look at all the adopted budgetary self-governments, so you'll see how percentage salary and income are, so those salaries that the administration gets in these budgets, compare it to each year in the previous ten, and 50 years, and you'll see that they're much less than they've ever been. Why is that? Because we understand that we have to save money in the team, in wages, in total consumption, in all of that. Why do we have to do this? In order for our cities, our villages and our municipalities to begin to resemble what is civilized Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4520	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4521	Mr. President, you've already insulted the Rules of Procedure twice, and then the MP who spoke before me behind this pay phone. Namely, Article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are laid down who can talk about the amendments. The order is very clear. The amendment is first referred to by the one who proposed it or the representative of the group of those who proposed it, then the rapporteur of the committee, then the presidents of the parliamentary groups and a member of the Government who, of course, has the right to get a word whenever he wants. You have already given the rapporteur twice to one of the committees, the Finance Committee, the word when he asks for it, although he did not ask for a word when the representatives of the amendment spoke, but the presidents of the parliamentary groups were making themselves known, and then you allow him to talk about something that he cannot talk about as a reporter. He can speak as the MP for the amendment he has submitted. He cannot, as the committee's rapporteur, enter into the measure of amendments submitted by the MPs. He can only say here what the board has done, what the committee's position has taken and if any of the board members have taken an opinion on it. We already have a representative of the government here, and we don't need the chairman of the Finance Committee to represent the government here for this speaker. It is not the duty of a congregation committee to keep his informant out here and defend the government's proposal, whatever it is. The Committee made its decision, it delivered the decision to the MPs. The chairman of the board here is a person who will take us out if we do not have enough written information and answer some questions, which possibly some MP directs to the Finance Committee. This is an abuse of a pay phone by the chairman of the Finance Committee and I ask you to prevent it from coming, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4522	Article 134 has established who has the right to speak about the amendment, but no order has been established. The order set out in Article 87 shall be as regards the opening of a search point of the agenda. It explicitly states that they have the right to receive the word in the next order and then the order is stated. It is obvious that Article 134 did not want the order to be listed, otherwise it would be entered in the way it is entered in Article 87, so neither are those who have the right, so it cannot be applied in the same order, nor is there a need. As regards the evaluation and the content of the committee president's statement, he certainly has the right to explain why the committee has delivered a positive or negative opinion on any amendment and I cannot enter into the content of its argument, as well as anyone else. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? You've had your word on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4523	Now your vice president has interpreted it here, if there are several amendments to one member of the law that we have several times the right to report, so Cedomir Jovanovic appeared three times, so I have three times. I was suggesting she was breaking the Rules of Procedure, but I'm counting on it. If he can, so can I, and now I'm reporting again on the same basis, since two amendments to this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4524	Since you are mentioned, use this as a right to replication, but it is not a good interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4525	Who do we trust now? You or your vice president?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4526	To me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4527	Then allow me two or three minutes longer, as I would answer Cedomir Jovanovic these ten points, but quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4528	There's three minutes for the replica, and that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4529	Mr. Jovanovic here has been trying in a disastrous way, as the president of his party said, to represent these tax laws and made ten claims, in fact the claim that ten earlier taxis and taxes had been abolished. Your own budget shows that you plan to take a lot more money from the people than was ever taken from the people. Your budget reveals your intentions. You can cancel all earlier taxes and taxes, introduce only a few, but with much wider tax bases and much higher tax rates. That's the problem. Because Cedomir Jovanovic says - a abolished tax on leaving the country. That was a maximum of 200 dinars. Most citizens rarely came out of the country, the one who was going out might have gone for some small trade, so there were never many 200 dinars to pay him. Now they're going to pay on other grounds a lot more. The solidarity log was effectively abolished in October of the month. It was strictly dedicated, while major work on rebuilding and building the country was completed. That reconstruction is over. There's little left to wait for. The electricity tax was so small for all of this that you're introducing that it's not worth it. Now citizens with nostalgia will remember these infamous taxes on electric numbers. She was petty, negligible compared to these taxes. You say nine special charges on oil derivatives have been lifted. Yes, it is. But if it's cheap oil, it's not. It's more expensive. Is the gas cheap - it's not. It's more expensive. You've introduced a monopoly that only one group of mobsters can import gasoline. And that's how you brought in individual merchants and gas station owners. Then, Cedomir Jovanovic says -- three special fees for cigarettes were lifted. And cigarettes picked up. I guess they were supposed to be cheap. Foreign cigarette importers are now in a much better position than domestic producers. That's what's worst. Two special fees on alcoholic beverages have been lifted. Did they eat alcohol? Oh, they are. Yes, whiskey is cheap. Did they give you homemade alcoholic beverages? Now the importers of foreign alcoholic beverages are in a much better position than the domestic producers of toast, prunes, mosquitoes, vines, beers, etc. Then, you say a housing contribution and a communal fee have been abolished. It hasn't been lifted. There's nothing left. The tax rate has been increased, with it not being intended now, but left at the will of the municipal bureaucracy to decide. Three percent rail tax, you say. Yeah, but you're left with the railroad, so you're gonna have to finance it. That's why you introduced a whole series of other taxes. This was an integral part of the sales tax. But you didn't cancel the sales tax, you did. You increased the tax rates in a row. Furthermore, a 3 per cent urban tax abolished for Belgrade. That's right. That's what all the opposition parties stood for. When you Democrats came to power, you forgot it. When the SPO came to power, he forgot. We weren't able to because there was no consensus here in the National Assembly to abolish that law. However, you lifted one tax and introduced a whole series of new ones. And finally, 10th, the abolished consent to the movement of immovableity. There was no tax on it. It was only a consensus on trade in real estate in Kosovo and Metohija, to prevent the Cypriots from buying Serbian properties under pressure and nothing else. Now that Kosovo and Metohija have been occupied, you could have quite easily abolished it, without any problems. So nothing was reduced in tax burdens. This is just a demagogue claim that the number of these tax burdens has been reduced because the tax base has been expanded and the tax rate has been extended. That's what your budget says, which is a lot bigger than it was before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4530	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4531	The Honorable President, the underprivileged presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not true that the restoration is over. There are large debts left, despite the solidarity logs despite the 0.15% out on all transactions. There's a bridge of freedom left, a bridge of Jell-O, two bridges left in Osregnica. Therefore, these claims are not true at all. We have seen that non-intentional funds were spent in the earthquake affected area of the Colombian district, that buildings were made only privileged party members who were in power. We saw the flats split. We see today that many worry about the spending of solidarity funds that are allocated to a solidarity building fund. We know that the previous government wanted everything to be centralized and we know why, so that all members of the government, primarily from these parties, would get apartments that were several times larger than those prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4532	Anybody else answer for a word? You don't have the right to a replica, you're not even mentioned. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 117, there were no abstentions, no 22 votes, out of a total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4533	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 2 point 4 is deleted, so the amendment reads. The question is, what kind of fund does a natural person have that generates income from agriculture and forestry? Such a natural person is not a company, but an impoverished agricultural producer. These days, at all the sessions, you've always watched you put a farmer in a group and charge him a tax. Agricultural producers were placed as bonds in - 1) a payer of earnings within the meaning of the law, which regulates the income tax of citizens; 2) a payer of income from copyright and industrial property rights; 3) a natural person who generates income from independent activity and 4) a natural person who generates income from agriculture and forestry, which the Serbian Unity Party proposed to delete. Ladies and gentlemen, you've forgotten that the farmer has no compensation in the event of a weather accident. Here, it's been raining for several days now, so all agricultural producers who have sown corn must do it again, because that's what agricultural experts say. He's carrying the damage himself. A farmer doesn't have a hot meal, no sick leave. A farmer doesn't have a pregnancy. I said, pregnant sick. Those mothers who give birth to children, living in the country, and there is a Serbian Unity Party proposed one amendment, and the only activity is agriculture, due to the white plague, to receive average personal income in Serbia. You said no. Now you're looking at how you're going to charge taxes to the mothers who live in the country. The Serbian Unity Party proposes that you remove this item 4, where you planned to take the tax from the farmer again and put your hand in his empty pocket. I'll take the opportunity to say one happy news. Yugoslav Kik Box, where the road leader, Yugoslav Kik Boxing Federation President and Federation Vice-President Borislav Pelevic, in Greece at Mediterranean games, won first place with seven gold, one silver and three bronze medals. I'll say one sad news, for the Serbian Unity Party, it's a sad news, and none of you mentioned it, although one of you may say it's not a part of the agenda, yesterday's result, gentlemen, of the elections in Montenegro, and for that result I'll blame DOS government, because they didn't want to support that option for Yugoslavia, gentlemen. [[Applause]] Apparently, that other option that is not for Yugoslavia will get angry. We have proposed this at a meeting with the president of the Assembly with the presidents of the parliamentary groups of dupunk that UNMIK has set up in front of Mitrovica is also an excuse and support for that option that is not for Yugoslavia, so congratulations, gentlemen, to you from DOS, an independent Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4534	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4535	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, sports news, even if it's about Kick Boxing, we leave it for sports shows. As for the elections in Montenegro, the Republic Parliament is not a place where election results can be discussed at this time. It was a question of Montenegro's citizens and they solved it as they themselves felt appropriate. We are, eventually, obliged to express our satisfaction that no incident has occurred. We'll see what the future of our common state will be like. We have made a full contribution to the preservation of all that we have done. And let's leave a cheap political demagogue beyond what we're doing right now, because all that's said is exactly that. Social policy isn't going through what we're trying to do right now. So, the problem of the rural population, the problem of agriculture, is solved by the Agricultural budget, is solved by tax relief, which is given through income tax, when it comes to livestock food, when it comes to agricultural machinery and when it comes to fruit material. So, for the first time, specific reliefs have been introduced for agricultural producers in our society. When it comes to the state's relationship with them, I'm obliged to remind myself that we're settling our obligations to pensioners in the country, and that's what we can do right now. The question of flooding is a serious question. I remind you that the Republic Government has launched a drain recovery project to solve these problems. Everything else is just amazing, and it has nothing to do with what's being done right now. The fund is being introduced for profit, regardless of whether it is a rural gain or a profit achieved in downtown Belgrade. In that sense, we will be just and not make that kind of difference, and it is not true that a writer will pay for building an apartment in a solidarity fund for someone else, nor will a peasant do it, who allegedly does not need an apartment. The fund obtained through the profit tax will settle those obligations that must be met specifically and for which the authorities of the local self-government provide prior consent. So if someone thinks there is a need to allocate funds to farmers or the population in the country, it will do the best on its own. There's no need for us to worry about them, because as a rule, whenever we were worried about someone's name, we did it the wrong way. We hereby give full freedom to every municipality, every local self-government, every local community, so to the village, to solve its problems adequately in one specific way, the means that it can have, and that is an exclusive right, so for the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4536	Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4537	Ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists will support Mr. Pelevic's amendment, because he's very clear. It is clearly said that no one in the country has a regress, that no one in the country has a warm meal, that no one in the country has a stamp and that no one in the country has a field supplement. Therefore, it is not fair, nor fair, to charge farmers taxes according to gross personal income. By the way, I congratulate our fellow MP, Mr. Pelevic, on what persistent youth points to sports, to the healthy psycho-physical structure of young people. These are activities we support, unlike the city government in Belgrade, which emptied "Pionir" so that the sect could hold its congress (Jehovah’s Witnesses). In Radio Belgrade, they were more than children, where the children in the hall would be involved in sports. It's been a lot of sect support lately. As far as Montenegro is concerned, I came out here, and I have a full excuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4538	Please stick to the agenda. Don't make us think about other parties, about Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4539	Please, on January 30th, the Socialists, as President of the National Assembly, sent a letter to you and asked for what is certainly best for this people, which is that the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, through you, along with your intervention, are involved with MPs of the newly formed Republic Assembly in Montenegro and the Federal Parliament, to discuss redefining relations, to try, in addition to the victory of separatists in Montenegro, to preserve the Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4540	Mr. Seselj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of tax laws is skillfully designed to take away the people's money, but indeed the government has disastrously represented these tax laws in front of the National Assembly. You have so misrepresented these tax laws, I don't think there are any citizens in Serbia today who don't understand what you've prepared for all the people and what pain and trouble the people will have with your authority. Here are two arguments on this amendment - you have increased the basic income tax to farmers from 1.5% per year, and now you have added 3.5% of this tax to the fund. So it's already 5.5% a year. You continue to submit to the National Assembly such and similar laws. Furthermore, just now Minister Šumarac, from this pay phone, said not all work on rebuilding and building the country has been completed. Not all of them, but the vast majority is over. You barely counted four bridges, but the previous government had already concluded an agreement with the Danube Commission that 35 million ECs were entrusted to our companies to clean up the Danube, and they calculated that they could clean up two bridges in Novi Sad. And your government now, with the Danube Commission, achieves that almost exclusively foreign businesses are clean Danube, so Hungarian, German, etc. will come. The company, because the amount is large, and we will have no use for our domestic traffic, and canals are enough. We have a sovereign right over the canals. Those canals are still being built by King Alexander, and all our ships can go through these channels, and no one can force us to release foreign ships. Now the Danube is being cleaned exclusively for missing foreign ships, but the cleaning money goes to foreign companies, so we have no use. Those who have singled out the money will now take the money and, at hell's prices, a clean Danube. No company will get any serious work. Only if mines need to be destroyed somewhere, then we serve as cannon meat, because what foreigners would die when they could kill our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4542	He has the word Minister Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4543	It's not just the four objects that are left, it's the big debts, the really big debts. I don't know how you could even negotiate with someone, we've seen how you negotiated and what's the result. The result of this in the construction industry is that today these companies are almost bankrupt, they had to do everything day and night, that they were not paid, and despite the fact that you've collected incredible taxes, incredible solidarity logs, all transactions fees, etc. Therefore, it is not true that our companies will not participate and build a bridge along with the Danish, Hungarian corporation, participate as architects to clean up the Danube. They will call an international competition where they will be able to compete with our companies. Unfortunately, the fact that, after your ten-year reign, it was left of our company, the Bridge, which had to give all the materials, in order for some of your officials, not only your party, but other parties that were in power, to take pictures of how capable our operation is to perform its own renovation. Unfortunately, after that, many companies are under bankruptcy and now we are trying to get this little funding that we adopted in the budget to redistribute in a proper way until foreign investment comes. Only foreign investment will come now that the new government here is placed in our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4544	You didn't mention it, but you recognized each other. Here you are, right on the line, MP Mr. Vojislav Seselj, has been identified.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4545	The minister spoke directly to me and I am extracting my right to replication. Minister, first of all, you should explain here how much the company's involvement is in the Mostproject which will hire its architects. This is the participation expressed in prominence. It's called the chief architect. You're making it up, you're making it up. Furthermore, as for construction firms working on the country's reconstruction, the state wrote off all its earlier claims on the name of taxes and contributions, and it was approximately 30%. They had an average of 30% of the money, which was enough to cover overhead and salary. Of course, government debts remain, and you will have to settle those debts because you have inherited power. I know that ministers from this DOS government must lie a lot in front of Parliament when they attack the opposition. Don't be so brutal and obviously lying. The Serbian radicals never took pictures when they were being put into traffic there was a car accident, any bridge, we avoided it, we spoke publicly that we didn't like it, and our ministers never showed up anywhere and took pictures. No, I understand the need for you to lie, but lie with a measure, to at least convince someone of your lie. Not such a greasy lie in front of all of Serbia, and the whole of Serbia knows that we have never taken a picture and the whole of Serbia knows that we have publicly opposed these manifestations and paintings. (Louds from the O.R.): You were embarrassed. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4546	Right to the replica? Or as president of the parliamentary group? Right on line, Cedomir Jovanovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4547	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we had been informed of the work of the party represented by my predecessor through the state media, we would really not have learned much about them. Not because they were longer than their coalition partners, but because they were small. They weren't so important to them that they'd let them take pictures on RTS. They could have been on the board of directors of RTS, they could have had a minister, but they couldn't get a picture. Even when the bridges were opening, and the rich weren't ready to take pictures of each other's apartments. That's the real truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4548	Mr. Seselj, you caused the replica, now you have no right. You were not mentioned earlier by the minister, so you recognized yourself, and so was the right use by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Let's move on. Is anyone else applying for a discussion under the amendment tabled by MP Borislav Pelevic? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 105, the abstentions of 7, did not vote 19, a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4549	Here, we've entered the third week and we're discussing tax laws, packages, and the current government is increasingly defending them. The prime minister himself said on Saturday at RTS that there were certain failures in the presentation. We from the opposition say there must have been some gaps in the matter itself, since the opposition proposed about 400 amendments, and the government proposed itself about 50. We have proven several times that many tax laws are neither constitutional nor in line with this system law on federal taxes. It will surely come within the next ten to fifteen days, when the real bills and the effects of these laws begin to arrive, someone from the ruling party will say that some laws must and withdraw. A legal norm can put up with anything, but no one can make someone pay for what they can't pay for. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this Act, although the government has submitted one regulation and I accept that 0.3 to 1% have introduced a solidarity fund. However, it is such an inaccurate regulation, which is unclear to the proposings themselves and to us as the opposition. It is not clear how it will be implemented, how the funds will be raised, who will control those funds, etc. Anyway, it's a good thing they're left with the solidarity fund. However, it is not good that the finance minister is not here, because we accept that this is tax fiscal reform and decentralisation, but we do not see transparently, as pointed out in the explanation, how much the employer's burden will be with these 3.5% and with contributions and gross earnings taxes. So far, we've been going from a transparent announcement to gross earnings, that from 100% to about 80%, we still don't really see it well, and we can only trust it. We know it's only 14% profit tax, and now we know that 3.5% of the fund is on gross earnings. However, it was said that the government, i.e. The pension fund and the Health Fund come out in April with contribution rates, so that employers can recalculate and really see how much redundancy is in the economy. We're talking about unloading here, but that discharge doesn't show clearly. I'd like to ask the minister when he returns to see how much discharge this is about the economy. The story here is about discharge, but we see that from citizenship, from employers is mostly a new discharge, in fact a new burden, only in other ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4550	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Please, MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Cedomir Jovanovic said earlier that we Serbian radicals are small, too small, so he even measured us like this, I don't know what that reminds him of. We Serbian radicals are great. We're the biggest. We are invulnerable, unsuspecting, fearless and incomparably smarter than you DOSs, who you need your opinion on William Mongomery. As big as we are for you, the best witness is this document issued by the Serbian Ministry of Interior, which is a confirmation of the temporary confiscation of items from persons for whom detention has been determined. [[Laughter]] From the above-mentioned face, which is called Božidar Veledinovic's face, taken from 22 labels that read "DOS is the worst". The same tags were withdrawn and a certificate was issued on taken-off items. Here, you're using the police for this. That man has been handed over to the court for violations. Here's a solution and a report to the judge for a misdemeanor. Judge for the offenses, and a brave woman named Natasa Djerkovic, a judge for the violations, found her. And the application said that he had a certain face, and NN said to his face, "You can't go through, the works are done, and that face went in an unknown direction." That's why a criminal report was filed and the judge released him. Are we small or big? Here, so this is why you're chasing us with your police force, so we're huge in your eyes. You can't sleep from us. You're holding another man for ten days in prison for fabricated guilt.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4552	Mr. Seselj, you have received your word as president of the parliamentary group to discuss this amendment. You abused that right. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He has the floor of MP Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4553	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the amendment first, but you will allow me to take a little trip, as well as the predecessors for this speaker later. As far as the amendments are concerned, it is clear that the MPs' move, the Socialists, Mr. Culibrk, must be made mandatory in the means that local self-government collects must allocate funds dedicated to the Solidarity Fund. The government of the Republic of Serbia has, in fact, walked in that direction with its regulation, but it is not good that it has limited it. It's not good that there's a limit of 0.3 to 1%. It could be an estimate, we have cities in the interior that are disabled with personnel, we have cities where the threat is particularly high when it comes to housing issues, it can be an estimate of local self-government to single out more than 1%. So our suggestion is that this amendment is accepted so that there are no restrictions. Speaking of apartments, my dear gentlemen, as many people here are engaged in housing, you have a minister standing before you who has not received a single apartment from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and has signed over 2,000 solutions in the last four years, based on the Commission's decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. My dear gentlemen, in order not to manipulate this speaker, you know, of these more than 2,000 solutions, otherwise, the Commission has found only 1,300, more than 1,500 solutions for the apartments allocated on a proposal for subcommittees within the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia, and which were divided from Vranja to Subotica, even at the Dardanija facility in Pristina, during the time the Serbs lived there. About 300 solutions were split on a proposal by a special commission within the justice ministry, employees in the judiciary, not in Belgrade, but again, from Vranja to Sudotica. Over 100 resolutions are divided on the basis of a proposal from the parent authorities and organisations and their way of resolving the acquisition of these apartments, and less than a hundred were shared by the government of the Republic of Serbia itself. I claim, over 2,000 apartments, up to 1.5% of these apartments are larger than 100 square meters. But they're not interesting, these others, 98.5%, like these 1.5%, to practice their speech skills here, for this speaker. As for painting, give God to the citizens of Serbia that you have the opportunity to take pictures in front of the buildings you build. Here, in six months you're just saying what you're planning to do, and you're even planning to do the law for small and medium-sized enterprises, and you're refusing the law. That's what we'll talk about when it's ready. The ones who took the picture were taken in front of the ready bridges, the finished residential facilities, the finished schools, the finished hospitals. God forbid you take a picture, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4554	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Nobody. I am putting the amendment, which was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk, to the vote. For 54, against 108, there were no abstentions, there was no 18 vote, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Tomislav Nikolic and Borislav Pelevic. I find that MP Borislav Pelevic has withdrawn this amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have not accepted these amendments. Do the applicants want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4555	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the decommissioning of Serbia, launched on October 5th, continues in a different form. Any law proposed by the Serbian government should know that, according to foreigners. The governments of the Republic of Serbia are filled with foreigners who write our laws. I have proof of that, and you just whistle, laugh. I can imagine what your parliamentary group meetings look like, at which ministers convince you to vote for such bill of law, which your citizens will welcome you to the knife. But by reading the arguments of your laws, one has to wonder if one government is writing an explanation for two laws that are one after the other on the agenda. In fact, you're saying that the current non-transparency of the tax system has led to the suspension of the compensation for the use of municipal goods of general interest and contributions to residential solidarity construction, and now you're transforming them into a profit fund at a rate of up to 3.5%. Something that was really in two items, but completely clear and completely dedicated, now as a fund you're putting into the budget and there's no trace of it anymore, there's no transparency anymore. Furthermore, the reasoning of this law says that in this way it is possible for municipalities to decide independently on the purpose of the revenues made on this basis, and you are doing this because under conditions of low performance of the income of the Republic's budget, so far, the municipalities have been irregularly transferred funds. First of all, the previous law, which gives rise to this law directly violates the 113th and 114th members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because you foresee revenues under the law for trusted transactions by the Republic. There will probably be performances in the Constitutional Court, when you have a promised constitutional court by the president of the National Assembly, but it turns out now that we have gone so far that the municipality will trust local communities with jobs and only then will we get some transferred funds, at least in this first phase, by the municipality, and then you will remember, and by law and resources and local communities to predict. Serbia's constitution is clear, absolutely clear. Trusted jobs are entrusted with funds, no resources are provided directly to municipalities. That, anyone who'd read from you, that's the final position of a member of 113th and a member of 114th, it would be clear to him. But that's what strangers read. They don't care what our constitution looks like, they don't care how the citizens of the latter live, they don't care how fast you land from power. They need chaos in Serbia. These laws, my dear gentlemen, lead to chaos in Serbia. You predict that one tourist resort can become Monaco, and another place that does not have such income becomes Jibuti, in the same country. That's why Vranjacka Banja municipality president says - Monaco's status would be the most appropriate for us in the Republic of Serbia. Why don't he just think about it? There's no one else who's going to oversee how to live in Serbia and who's going to say -- help out there, patch up there, these have enough, these don't, build there. We need life in the country too, we need life in small municipalities, we need apartments of solidarity in large cities, because there are people inhabited by moss from Raška and Kosovo and Metohija, and they have no place to live. I gave the amendment so I could have a chance to discuss it. But at least I don't change my attitudes, unlike the president of the Assembly, the Martian, who, as soon as the president of the Vrachar municipality stopped, was the number of local communities from 10 down to four. Now this law local community... (President: Mr. Nikolic, I warn you that you have exceeded a certain time. Just tell me - the time, and don't warn me. The warning is already the measure you tell me. Say, Mr. Nikolic, time, and I'm done. So the amendment needs to be accepted because the separations are huge. The peasants will ask you what their profits are, due to the previous amendment, because of the previous member and position 4. The villagers will ask you how you estimate that exactly 3.5% of the Catastrian income, based on some of their earnings, should go into the municipality's budget, will be asked by many citizens in the coming weeks, and not so far, perhaps next week, where you get so many ideas from. I suggest you lower your tone, throw the arrogance out, as a means of communication from this pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4556	Mr. Nikolic, I'm giving you a warning about time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4557	What's my warning, so I know how to behave?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4558	The second one, and the first one was...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4559	When did you first tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4560	You heard me say it. Thank you. The second applicant for the amendment, Mr Petar Jojic, is not there. Is anyone else answering for a word on these amendments? Please, MP Dragan Markovic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group, or president, excuse me, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Professor. Pelevic proposed this amendment and gave up, but a similar amendment was proposed by Mr Tomislav Nikolic and we propose that this amendment be adopted. I have to tell Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, who said, when I spoke about agriculture, that it was demagogy. I will now tell you, Mr. Jovanovic, what demagogy is. Demagogy is, Mr. Jovanovic, when someone is talking about agricultural production, about business, about taxes, and he's never done anything in his life. It's demagogy. Demagogy is, Mr. Jovanovic, when someone gives speeches in front of students in 1996 and talks about their better tomorrow, that he is not doing it because he is a member of a party and because he will deal with politics, but only for their better tomorrow. It's a demagogy, Mr. Jovanovic. Demagogy, Mr. Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4562	Mr. Markovic, please stick to the agenda theme. You received your word as president of the parliamentary group, that's how I announced you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4563	I'm sorry, but I have to answer him. The demagogy, Mr Jovanovic, is to say in the election campaign - as soon as you come to power, you will abolish all taxes and the citizens of Serbia will be able to live off their work. You have abolished several taxes, but that is why you have increased the tax on services and taxes on living goods, as well as tax traffic, so it is much harder for citizens, Mr Jovanovic. Mr Jovanovic, demagogue is when you say - in 90 days this government will start solving problems and on the 90th day citizens will be able to live again from their work as they once did. It's demagogy. Demagogy is when your president and Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic says -- only September can we expect foreign assistance, and Mr Jovanovic, you said -- six billion dollars stands at the border and as soon as you come to power, six billion dollars will immediately come to Serbia and go for the development of factories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4564	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4565	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is again a matter of misunderstanding. I've missed your agricultural experience somewhere, but I haven't accused you of anything, I'm not obliged to account for what I've been doing and for what I'm doing right now, but I owe it to those who support me, to tell you that this isn't the only place where you can get that kind of information, that if you thought of me as a person who doesn't have any kind of, as that's said -- work experience, then you've made a mistake. I've got 11 years of work. Practically, since I've known I've been working for myself. Of course, not the way you did. There's a big difference between a congregation pledge for peasants and a privileged monopoly trade with the state through which you acquired the property. As for the memory of the past, remember the root of the party that you represent here today and the ideologies that you followed back then and what you're saying today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4566	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? You've already received your word, Mr. Markovic, there's no replica on the line. You challenged the replica, you challenged the MP of the people, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. So, is anyone applying for discussions under this amendment? If not, I'll put this amendment to the vote. When we're done, you'll get a word in accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure, you may take a look. So I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 56, against 106, the abstentions were not voted 23, and a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendments. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4567	Madam Chairman, I've been discussing the amendment, it wasn't a replica, and I've been looking for a word as head of Parliament's club, and I'd like to answer Mr. Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4568	You've caused a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4569	No, Mr. Jovanovic is...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4570	You spoke to the MP of the people Cedomir Jovanovic five, six times - Cedomir Jovanovic, Cedomir, and thus caused the replica. I can't give you my word, I'm sorry, I can't give you three sentences, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4571	I'm entitled to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4572	You caused the replica, I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic, you have no right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4573	Here, just three sentences to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4574	Please, Mr. Markovic, I'm going to have to turn it off. You have no right. Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? If you don't... We voted. Excuse me. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please. National MP, Mr. Veroljub Arsic:
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4575	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today I have been heard from the ministers and from the committee's informers of everything and especially that part of the SRS's MPs are lying. I don't want to discuss who's lying, but I can tell you that many of those who accuse us are talking nonsense. To speak nonsense, and that's true, I can catch Mr. Minister and take him to the nearest self-service, convince him, to show him, not to convince him, not to buy him sugar, and oil, and fat, and meat, and milk and eggs, and the fridges and the freezers. That's why our citizens will now be able to pack refrigerators and freezers and take it to their families for lunch. Also, a gentleman who probably didn't even go to school said taxes don't pay citizens or pay them very little. Now let me ask him, what kind of tax don't the citizens pay? Is there one tax that citizens don't pay? If an article costs 100 dinars and a tax of 20 dinars, a man comes to the register and pays 100 dinars. It's only trade that's the middleman, his pocket and his state, and don't lie to yourself, so taxes don't pay citizens. For these reasons, I suggested that this rate in the fund tax law be reduced from 3.5% to 2%. There's another reason why -- so far as all the local authorities, especially under the SPS and JUL, I didn't have much confidence in them. When it comes to DOS power and their local government, I don't have any confidence in them, and that's why I have a lot of reasons. Because their presidents of the municipal committees, even today, had been arguing before, how they would share power in the municipalities where they won that power, because theirs, and that's the topic, the party presidents argued that they would share the help they had received from the West, so they were petting each other, or each other, as much as they could. That's why, at least through this amendment, I've asked to reduce these procedures that will be available to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4576	Is anyone else applying for a discussion? Here you go. National MP Dragan Markovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment proposed by the previous speaker should be accepted. And now I would like to say a few more words about Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic, you should hear this, so you can answer me. You said you worked 11 years. Let me see what tax you paid to the state. I've been a private entrepreneur for 21 years and I've been paying the most tax to the maritime district for the last six years from all private entrepreneurs. My father was a private entrepreneur, my grandfather was a private entrepreneur. I used to be a sportsman, today I'm a sportsman, I support seven football clubs, I have a kick-box club that gives six representatives. I'm the biggest donor of the Third Child Fund. Over a thousand families have received help from me from the part of getting my company, Mr. Jovanovic, and to hear from you, what you did, where you did it, and how nobody knows that you have worked experience for so many years. Did you work on the street? Where's your work book, Mr. Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4578	This was a discussion by the president of the parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Markovic, following an amendment submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendment tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. For 53, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 19, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevo Dragisic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4579	Ladies and gentlemen, from the debate on this bill, we have come to the evidence that the current government is not keeping its promises immediately after its formation, that it will take care of reduced public spending and that public spending will be much more restrictive than it was in previous years. In the debate, Nenad Bogdanovic said the City Assembly budget for 2000 was 200 million marks, and that for this year it is 300 million marks, 380 however, even worse. This means that this year the amount of Belgrade's city budget is actually higher, if it is true that 380 is almost double that it is larger, realistically larger than it was last year. You said that on the basis of the government's higher percentage of sales taxes in Belgrade's territory this year, it gave Belgrade than it did last year, that it is the most based on it. It doesn't matter, that's what you said, and you explain later. You also said it was a case with other municipalities. If that's true, if the government gave up part of the income it had last year at the expense of municipalities, and we know that the budget for this year, you claim the same as last year, and we say more in the right amount again than last year, then we come to the conclusion that tax interventions are much bigger than they were, and then we come to the question of how it is possible to abolish the ten fiscal instruments listed here by Ceda Jovanovic, now it's out, and that tax arrests are bigger than they were last year. This means that reforming the tax system is actually dragging your hands deeper into the pocket of taxpayers. That's the data you presented today for this pay phone. They were heard by the whole hall and everyone who followed this assembly session. Praise the transparency of the new tax system, including this law on the tax on the fund. This law abolished dedicated fiscal instruments, a fee for the use of municipal goods of general interest and for solid residential construction. They were dedicated instruments. You've introduced one fiscal instrument of general purpose, of general character. Thus, the funds collected in this way go into the budget and are used as the person who has the means. There is no strictly defined purpose. That's where transparency ends. Instead of making a commitment for that money, which replaces those dedicated fiscal instruments, to those who spend money to use it again for the same purpose, you are now allowing them to fill in those holes that they still have because of lack of funds for another way. How will you oblige municipalities to invest in municipal infrastructure? Not at all. That's why you've made it possible for local communities to discuss self-debts, so now the amount of funds that should have been dedicated to municipal construction to be spent for general purposes, and the funds for municipal construction will be taken back from the citizens in an additional way, with mandatory self-debts, and by prescribing self-delivery, will be covered by those obligations that the municipalities needed to cover from these dedicated physical instruments that are now being abolished. So, in addition to reforming the tax system, you have carried out a major intervention by taxpayers, you will add to them by forcing them to finance their own municipal construction on their own territory. That is the essence of your tax reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4580	Right on the replica, MP Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4581	It's been a pleasure listening to this previous exposure, because we're here somewhere, because apparently the MP made an effort to make an actual analysis. The only thing we disagree on is the final result of what is now being done compared to the previous year. For 95, and perhaps 98% of Serbian citizens, the arrest will be limited. And by 2%, it's going to be bigger, and it's going to be drastic. Of course, the secret hides, where the money comes from, where the money will come from, which is more than a percentage of inflation transferred. She's hiding in sources, which aren't just interventions from citizens, and if we analyze the budget, I'm willing not to do that behind the pay phone, sit down with everyone, take a look together and figure it out. As far as the city is concerned and how the city is going to spend, unfortunately, you have to understand one fact, because you know very well, cities have to spend more money than they're going to collect from this taxes on municipal activities, because all the municipal infrastructures are ruined. So, we're going to have to balance this time, all of us in our budgets, and that's what we did. After all, take the budgets, look, they're open. Budget isn't a secret. After all, all the parties sitting here have their own representatives in local self-government. Have them look at the budgets. Have them look at the city's budget. They will see that Belgrade will spend more money on municipal infrastructure this year than it will raise from this fee. Why? Because it will have to invest in municipal infrastructure from some other incomes, not in other things that maybe the city of Belgrade should invest. Because Belgrade's simply municipal infrastructure is in a catastrophic situation. Therefore, it should be correct. It should be fair. And for every bill, I'm ready to sit down and discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4582	Here you are, Mr. Seselj as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the government has disastrously represented itself during the debate on these tax laws, the Committee's representative seems to have the intention of overcoming it in this disaster. A representative of the Budget Committee is trying to convince parliament and citizens of Serbia that taxes will now be cut by 98% of citizens, and only 2% will pay higher taxes, which is absolute nonsense. There's an extended tax base. The number of taxpayers has increased. So, the finance minister went wide, and raised the tax rate, it also meant height. Many more people will also be cautious at much higher levels. If it weren't for that, you wouldn't have introduced a tax on a warm meal and a regress tax on vacation. You wouldn't raise the tax rate to the peasants. First, the basic income tax increased from 1.5% to 2%, so you add this municipal tax of 3.5%, so a total of 5.5% and who knows what else you've come up with. So then you expanded the tax base for apartments and increased the tax rate. Where did you increase the tax base? Because for the owner of the apartment you reduced from 50% to 40%, and only 30% more, there is a discount on members of the household, for each member up to 10% to a total of 30%. So, do you tax the rich, 2% of the rich. No, I don't. These tax laws introduce new imposes on the poor. You take from all the citizens, from all the people, and you flaunt with a big budget. You still don't know how to deploy some large budget items and increase, and you increase enormously, the budgets of local self-government. Oh, you're reducing their number of commitments. You're terminating their obligation to build municipal infrastructure. You are terminating the obligation to build apartments, etc. And you keep it at the level of the recommendations, like -- it's expected. The reason for the law is -- they are expected to invest in building apartments of solidarity. You're expecting it. Well, you know who you are, who you are, what you are, and what you can expect from each other. So, it offers the great influences of skin to citizens, to the people, and on the other hand, it offers the same people far less than the previous government offered through the distribution of budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4584	The right to replica has a national emissary Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4585	It's common when a man has no arguments to insult. I can accept that, since I unfortunately realized that this is a manners here in this House. Whether it's stupid or not - it can always be disputable. But some things are facts. Of course, I can understand that one who doesn't know math well can make mistakes. It's totally natural. It's all a simple account. I claim and remain in it, of course, as chairman of the Finance Committee, that we discussed it on the Committee. The Finance Committee has rejected all these amendments and all these objections, at least with that motivation that it's not true what they're saying. The fact is that what will be collected by tax laws will practically be less in nominal terms, if inflation and all calculations are taken into account. But let's sit down and figure it out, not talk. Not that we're talking about some skin scratching or some other stuff. So that's what we discussed. It's not three times the budget. That's a lie. Why? Why does the budget look bigger? It looks bigger because the same amount that was in the budget last year was in other accounts. All that stuff from those accounts is back in the budget. That's what inflation's about. Collect, multiply, divide, tax liabilities 98% of Serbian citizens are less and that's a fact. No one's flaunting. We are very unhappy that we are in a situation where the city of Belgrade has 300 million budget marks annually. That's embarrassing. I'm saying it doesn't have Tirana. And why is that? Why? Because you brought us into this situation that the citizens had 70-80 marks of pay and, of course, they couldn't pay any taxes to their country, because the citizens want their state to work. The citizens of Belgrade want to have the waterway they deserve, the traffic they deserve, the heating they deserve, the roads they deserve, and look where we came from. Therefore, no one is flaunting the big budget. Whoever's going through this budget wouldn't be normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4586	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm setting a break by 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4587	I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to work with. I understand we have a quorum for the work of the Assembly. We continue with the amendments to Article 4. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 117 abstentions, there were no four votes, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to the Bill of Taxation on the Fund is to Article 4, I suggest that Article 2 be deleted. The reason is that this bill provides funds for local self-government, which only have that obligation to discuss how much the tax rate on the fund will be. There's no other obligation for local self-government. I believe that this attitude is too high and that there should be an amendment in place that will make a commitment to the local assembly for the purpose of using these funds, which it collects from this tax code. Your argument for the adoption of this law applies, as you say here (quote): "the netransparency of the tax system and the implementation of the decentralisation of the tax system, by abolishing compensation for the use of municipal goods of general interest and contributions to solid housing". So there are again two items, which you're going to wave as if you're cutting taxes, and on the other hand, you're introducing a tax on a profit fund, which adds to the economy. To remind ourselves of who all taxpayers of the profit fund are - it is a profitable income within the meaning of the law, which regulates the income tax of citizens, the payer of income from copyright and industrial property rights, a natural person who generates income from independent activity and a natural person who generates income from agriculture and forestry. So, an additional imposition on the same categories of obligor. What is interesting is that Article 7 is regulated to apply the provisions of the laws governing the income tax, which means that the employer is obliged, whether or not he pays the profits, to pay this tax to the State. So he's bound to the state, and he's not obliged to his employees. He can't make any payments until he first pays this amount of income tax. During the whole day's debate, we listened to a variety of arguments, and Mr. Minister couldn't convince either the MPs or the least citizens of the Republic of Serbia of the right to introduce another charge, since we know that all these categories have already been taxed once. So, along with that time bomb, he places another bomb that will trigger the implementation of this June 1st, 2000, social unrest in Serbia. As for time bombs, this French minister is probably in cahoots with current French occupiers who occupied Kosovo and Metohija, who are also using some bombs. They're the only ones who call them bomb shocks. I can tell you from these shock bombs that already more people have lost parts of their body, and one person has died. In yesterday's attack, a single men's attack by UNMIK and KFOR from four vehicles to the Serbian barricades in Kosovo Mitrovica, a bomb was dropped, leaving our eight citizens injured, and the leg of Vesko Djuric, a citizen of Kosovo Mitrovica, was badly injured. What's cynicism is that the occupier says those bombs weren't dropped, they just happened to be here. So, Serbs drive those means of transport, they use helicopters when they go into action.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4589	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4590	A member, with an amendment, I'm talking about bombs, and if Mr. Secretary can mention bombs, why can't I, Mr. President? So let me explain what happened in Kosovo Mitrovica. It is another shameful act that takes place in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and I again appeal to the Assembly that this assembly, not only in the light of a statement by a circle of this assembly, the president and a few MPs, but in the assembly session set the point of the agenda on Kosovo and Metohija, and that the Assembly draws its conclusions from this session. (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4591	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they oppose amendments to the Serbian Radical Party to the Law on Tax on the Fund of Profits. Representatives of the government and the ruling majority were indeed very ignorant of the problem itself and showed extreme misunderstanding. When the minister doesn't understand something or especially Cedomir Jovanovic doesn't understand something, then there's no point in criticising Dragan Markovic - Palma and attacking him that Cedomir Jovanovic doesn't have a job internship, so it confuses him, freaks him out, so Cedomir Jovanovic comes out for a pay phone and says he's 11 years old. He messed up here, he means student internship, and remembers in Cardell's day that the student was promoted to a working man, and hence 11 years of employment. I really can't listen to that, and I would warn Dragan Markovic - Palma. You know, someone who doesn't know anything shouldn't even be mumbled, doesn't need to be called too harshly for that ignorance to be blasphemed in public. I would never do that when it comes to Cedomir Jovanovic (from Hall: Theme), because I have data that Cedomir Jovanovic was sent to the third grade for a class exam, in the third grade of the economic school "Nada Dimic" in Zemun, and the fourth grade ended with enough success. You know, right now there's really no point in looking for those weak spots. You can talk about his jeep, his abilities, his violent behavior and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4593	Mr. Seselj, today's jeep isn't on the agenda. I'm saying no jeep is on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4594	You think only my jeep can be on the agenda, because you've been making statements that I'm defending the jeep when we're critical of Kosovo and Metohija (from the hall: jeep, jeep). I wonder why the police take the jeep when it's critical down there, why she didn't go down there. Let's get back to this amendment, what's the matter? These DOSs of yours all want to talk about jeeps looks. Let's talk about Chad's schools and success. As for this provision where we are looking for amendments, firstly to abolish the income tax, so when you don't accept it, to reduce the tax rate from these estimated 3.5%, as predicted, to 1 or 1.5% or 2%. Government representatives show absolute misunderstanding and they have no interest in actually explaining their own tax policy, they think that the weaknesses of the previous period can be built here by any tax system. Well, no. It's so hard in the country, the people of this tax can't handle it. You are constantly proving here, as did your representative of the Committee, as they were already called, I cannot remember all the names (from the Hall: Bogdanovic), he said in nominal terms that this year's budget is much smaller than the last one. That's what he said about this pay phone, so it's probably in the stenogram. In nominal terms, the budget is four times higher. We're not saying that he's actually four times bigger, but he's much bigger than he was last year, because last year the mark course was 20 dinars for one brand, now he's 30 dinars for one brand, which means that at the top of his head the budget for this year could be 50% higher (from the hall: lying), not 2, 3, or 4 times bigger, depending on which side he's approaching. (from the O.R.: 6 dinars for one brand).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4595	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 121, no one abstained, four did not vote, a total of 181 MPs were present. The Committee on Finance submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government's representative agreed to this amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee to declare this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4596	Legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4597	Since the amendment of the Committee on Finance has been adopted by the Legislative Committee and by a representative of the Government, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. This ended the search of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. A proposaler's representative came forward, here you go, final word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4598	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, by voting for this law, you will thus complete the first step of economic reform and the proposed package of tax laws, and the team before you voted for the Serbian budget. I'd like to take this opportunity to maybe, if we look back a little bit these few weeks we've spent together, say three lessons, see what three things our citizens have received through this debate and through the adoption of these laws. So I might point out what the next three key steps are in our fiscal and economic reform. First, with lessons. The first lesson seems to me to be a very positive lesson, which is that this is the first debate of these scales and these depths, whatever it is and of course, that at some point maybe it wasn't decent to this home. This is the first one on one of the key issues that it is occupying and interested in all of our citizens. It seems to me that the very fact that we are discussing this is a very reliable signal that our country is returning to the order of normal countries, countries where the most debates on these issues, where the most intense debates are going on about this, about taxes, about public spending, about various programs and fighting ideas to find what is best for our citizens. It seems to me, this first act of economic reform carries out a very positive act. If we look at the government's behaviour, too, there were questions about why these government amendments, the expression of a new technology of government and how to run this country. Looking into the past and watching as these sessions were conducted, I noticed that almost never a single amendment of the opposition was accepted in past sessions. But given that we had a very short period of adoption of these laws, not only did the government hear about what was constructive by the opposition, but it closely monitored the public hearing and the public debate and adopted what was reasonable. So, it seems to me, we've won the quality of our public life, the public debate and the adoption of such key laws. That would be my first lesson. As for the second message, the prime minister said the government had misrepresented these laws disastrously the other day. I agree with him. Why? Because it's hard to explain that such a good package of tax laws and such a budget, which is a qualitative shift towards what was in our country, is not being accepted by our population, or even by the opposition, and admitting that this is not the time to go into finesse and some less. When you go from one system, where 40% of the entire budget goes through special accounts, when you go from one system where our people are taxed by inflation, by freezing their assets into so-called. to the state banks, not to mention private, when you're crossing from a system where there was no budgetary control, when you're crossing from a system where it wasn't possible to have regular reports about what's going on in the state register, at that moment, and even when you look at this situation, really, the government didn't do well, did not do a good job of explaining to our people, perhaps to you here in the Assembly, what's here and what's there. However, I think the facts are very stubborn. Also, those who have announced a huge inflation during this debate, a major earthquake, tax shock by moving to a unique rate of sales tax, have been living with that tax for three weeks and we see that there are indeed products that are black dots, where the price is increased, and thus, by doing so, we see that there is no major shock. That's how it's gonna be with these new laws, and that's how it's gonna be because we want it to be and because we're prepared. So if we've left too much room for ignorance, for demagogy, it's our fault, even me, because we left a lot of false claims behind this payphone. It's our fault, too, but I think it's going to change a lot in the next few sessions and these proposed laws. It's been said that the budget is bigger. Nominally, it is. But when we attach the final budget bill for 2001, early next year, we'll see what's done and we'll compare real figures. Then we will see that indeed the grip on our economy is reduced when compared with what needs to be compared. There were rumors that we'd introduced some new taxes, but we'd abolished the taxes. We abolished the tax to get out of SRJ, the solidarity logs that, if they hadn't been abolished, would have burdened our population for an additional 12 billion dinars. That's 10% of the entire budget. The electricity tax has been abolished. I want to say, since that was the story this morning, we need to re-introduce a kind of subscription and have the dedicated financing of RTS, because it's really not good to have a situation where sometimes the finance minister decides when and how much wages should be paid in RTS. It's not a good situation and it'll be changed very soon. 3% have been abolished in Belgrade, 3% for the railways, and we have a dozen other fees that have not been abolished, but have been converted into what they are - excise or sales tax. There has been talk that these accusations will endanger our population. I'm hearing today, and you're going to hear about it again, that those who today receive taxes on their property, on their apartments, have to pay a lot more. Again, let's see, because last year the regime had an inflation of 116%, simply, the alignment with that inflation rate leads to these figures in the dinars that our citizens are going to pay. But there's nothing real about it. That's how it's gonna be in all the taxes our ordinary citizens are gonna pay this year. There must be no one to intimidate them, and no one must bring any fear into our population. The state is being run normally, responsibly, no longer schiastically. The third lesson that I may be personally drawing from this, just because these topics have been very little talked about in the past years, perhaps knowledge throughout society, knowledge, exchange of views about it is at a very low level, whether they want it or not. I think it's also an important role for the state, not through other populism, to help everyone, both businesses and citizens, to better know what they're paying for and why they're paying for. Therefore, I would like to tell you that what is planned will go even faster, which is the establishment of a public finance institute, which will require that our doctrine and our knowledge be developed in that domain. We'll publish one tax informant through electronic and other media. As of tomorrow, we will establish a telephone connection, and we will publish it at the Ministry of Finance, and then at RUJPA centres, and afterwards in the local offices of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, that citizens or businessmen who have questions can get answers. Finally, for those already on the Internet, a website of the finance ministry will be established at the end of this week, where they will be able to see laws and questions and answers. That's three lessons. If I look at all these tax laws now, not getting into the budget again, we're wondering what our citizens got. I think three things. First, much more democracy and honesty. It may not be much, but it's already a base for something that's healthy. Why? Because this time neither I nor any future finance minister will be able to avoid you and the public and introduce some charges and some sublegal acts, because this is now expanding some new way of relations with our public and our citizens. If a tax has to be increased, I or any other tax will have to come before you and have a debate, talk and argue whether it's appropriate. It seems to me to be a major shift for our country and for our citizens. And not to mention, as far as the cost and income side is concerned, this time it's all like a palm, it's all legal and everything can be checked. It's a major shift for our democracy and for the fair leadership of our public finances. I am, in the name of the government, extremely proud of it. The other thing our citizens got from this is more justice. [[Applause]] First of all, we introduced reasonable progressiveness. This means that those who have bigger houses, stronger cars, bigger receipts, something more will pay. That's fair. There's no need to go too far in any other direction. But now we're also getting into the ranks of nations that have something more normal. Obviously, this will be the most resuscitating moment when we introduce synthetic income tax to citizens, but it takes a little more effort and information. It'll be next year. Justice, that's the same thing as real social policy. It's not demagogy, not the demagogue that says -- it's going to be a low price for everyone and for those who can't pay, and then some bonds are issued, big systems are broken down, and then the state is helpless. The state is two years behind on child benefits, the state cannot help those who need it. That's the end of it. If you look at the budget, of those four billion, we now have 16 billion. A dinar for the socially endangered, because this social aid must go into the hands of those who need it, not everyone. It's the right way to protect our citizens through child benefits, which will be regularly received through regular pensions, through regular salaries for those who are budget beneficiaries. And this year, because we are going to reform, we will also have 600 million dinars that we have provided from the World Bank's capital, and in August it will be given to those who receive children's allowances and advances. Also in August, if we can do something sooner, we'll pay off those bonds that only reach us on 1 January 2002. It's that real social policy, not the one that's kind of administratively trying to depressed some prices and then there's no drugs, and there's no electricity, and there's no state anymore. The third thing our citizens have received is more benefits for them and local self-government, even for the economy. If we look at the citizens, there have been a lot of stories here about the car, but our citizens now see that what we have been six years old have been able to pass on to eight years old, and some say it should have been 12 years old, we will see through these months that are coming, but the shift has been made and so many of our citizens, those who have weaker cars, medium cars, will be able to pay even less taxes and certainly, less taxes at real prices. Those who have something stronger, and a new car, and that's just, they'll pay more. As for the hunters, that DOS amendment that the government accepted, we freed the gun-paying hunters who were supposed to pay before. I could go on with such a long list of those things we've made possible for our citizens. Secondly, if you look at the economy, I'm going back to that in the end, we have a situation where they can invest more now, because the budget can't invest enough in what it's doing and what is the spirit of our nation, what was 3.5%, now 5%, it's maximum and it can be rejected for the company's profits, and the culture is investing 1.5% and 3.5% for all other purposes. It is a major shift, and it is necessary that those better-standing companies can help, for these key segments, our society. And now, if I move on to what are the next three steps, it seems to me, firstly, and now the debate is opening, and we know that for this speaker, again some will try to bring unrest into the souls of our citizens, into businesses, by moving on to gross wages. I repeat, the act of moving to gross wages is to restore the future to our workers, to those who are employed. Ten years that future has been sold every day. However, it was extorted by a given situation, in part, and I admit it. But the moment is to bring back the future to our citizens and those who speak, and they're going to talk about this speaker that there's going to be some difficulties for some companies, they really think that this government is extremely naive, that we don't know and that we're not already getting ready, and that we haven't made programs, just for these companies in the right way. But the whole system must not be distorted for a few specific situations. We need to have one neutral and normal system, and then resuscitate what needs to be rescheduled. That's the right way for our country. By moving to gross wages, we allow those who receive salaries, pension rights and health care. That's what's most important for our people, because it's very difficult for some to, in a cynical way, talk about that social, time bomb in Serbia's heart. Those who talk like that may not think too much of that people. Maybe that's how he grew up to them. So that's the first thing and the first step that awaits us right now in this debate. Step two, this is further the introduction of order and honesty in the management of our public finances. First, and at this session, you will get a final budget account in 2000 and, of course, with that final account, you will get as promised a report on budgetary control, which has been going on since 26 February this year. We'll see here that some of the things that were said for this pay phone are not true, that non-purpose fees weren't the right thing to do. On the contrary, there has been the most abuse of both the official position and other crimes. Here we will see, on what happened, and it will again prove that this time the gross budget and these tax laws are the right way for our country. As for the extra income tax and extra profit, we'll just talk about it. It is the same way to bring order into our country and it will certainly be in a week of debate, stories and debates in this House on the subject. The second package, this time not tax laws, is already being prepared, and we have ended up with some of the arrangements this year, we will have the vault law, which will regulate the relations that the state has with the banks, we will have the law on the budgetary procedure, because this budget procedure, however much better than what we had before, is insufficient for a democracy as it should be Serbia. And here we will propose a much more detailed way of preparing the budget, of adopting, and of course monitoring the budget, so that you, as an expression of the people's will, including the people, know even more precisely what's going on in the government register. Finally, we will also propose a law on gambling, because in that segment the state must restore its rights and introduce order. That's the second step you can expect. I'm concluding with step three, and there, all those who talked about it, are absolutely right, the best tax system can't work if our economy and those elements we can establish don't go. Of course it's our government's top priority now. I'd like to say that what was in these tax laws and budgets is not enough. Those who talk about agriculture, all the contacts we have with them, show that they've got a very good understanding of the message. Harmonisation with the European Union, the release of artificial fertilizer tax, plant protection products, livestock food, what is in the Agrarian budget, the very attractive price for milk, those funds provided for the verification of our livestock fund, and not to mention that they are currently receiving for the first time up-to-date and diesel stamps, that artificial fertilizer has come, all this suggests that our agriculture is on the move again. That's very positive for all of us. Secondly, if we're talking about the economy, as you know, it's announced, we're going into a big fight to bring order into excise products. I can tell you, that's what you're gonna get the report on. It's going well. It went well in oil as well. A major control action has been carried out since Friday and further into the area of cigarettes, and we have already achieved good results. It's all that's gonna make it possible to further relieve our economy. And that's exactly what we're talking about. But in June's wages, we will not only move on to gross wages, which will allow for the expansion of the base. Those who say that a warm meal will be taxed, deceive the people, for he will and will enter into the foundation, but at lower rates. Of course, for all those companies where they're paid regularly, it'll have neutral effects. Already in July's pay, we're going for an extra 10% discharge. What today is 100 to 105 dinars, 100 dinars of wages, will become about 70. It's that strong message for our entire economy and they get it very well, and then when we come one day, we'll see how much it will help those who are more successful, and we'll do as I've already announced, all to mitigate any negative effects for those who will find it more difficult. This is what the economy will understand very well with the inflow of fresh capital. Today was one session of the Development Fund, we have already received 64 million maracazes of various export projects. It's just the beginning. Finally, a good news came today, and that is that 5,500 Zastava workers have accepted the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme of all 6,500. There's good news today. They pleaded, there's not much room for any liquefying, there's no place for any pleasure. This deal that has been reached is one very difficult deal for all the employees of the flag and we are aware of it. It is a difficult deal for employers too, it is a very difficult deal for both the Republic of Serbia and Serbia's budget. But believe that night of negotiations, what has been achieved today, is that workers and trade unions, the city and the employer and the government have finally seen what the real situation is and have acknowledged that deep changes in the flag are necessary. With this agreement, we now have one basis, a way to work together on this deep problem called the flag, and I think it is only the first, first, but significant shift towards healing not only the flag, but also the Kragujevac, and therefore I am deeply happy and very pleased on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the workers have accepted, 5,500 of 6,500, who have declared themselves to the programme. In the end, and I'd say that, as you saw, one internal debt regulation commission in our economy was launched last week, because we didn't just find $12.2 billion in foreign debt. Unfortunately, we also found 825 billion dinars of internal debt. It's the price of that indifference, it's the price of isolation, it's the price of bad economic policy, which we found today, and we're going to start to solve this problem, which is extremely complex, but I'm also engaged here today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. By the end of May, we will also find this mechanism to enable our economy to re-operate, to unblock these giro accounts, and by working on the economy, we will certainly see the debts of our citizens, the debts they have towards electricity and some other aspects. So with this budget, with these tax laws, with everything that's been done for the economy and our citizens, I'm sure we've laid one of the first key foundations for our country's success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4599	I thank the Minister for Finance Mr. Bozidar Djelic, and I hereby conclude the examination of the bill in particular. I'm putting a vote on the Bill of Taxes on the Fund of Profits, in general. For 129, against 59, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 6, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Taxes on the Fund of Profits. You're looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4600	When a word is sought, the President-in-Office, by the Rules of Procedure, is given the word immediately. So it won't be delayed, and I've been holding my hand for five minutes and looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure have been hurt, but the matter is already over. I wanted to warn this congregation about a violation of Article 141. Rules of Procedure on amendments and the submission of amendments. We had an amendment to the government for which the chairman read that he had become an integral part of this law because he was accepted by the board, and that amendment was submitted during the debate. It shall not be filed in good time within the time limit laid down in Article 141. Rules of Procedure provided. On April 12th, the Committee considered this amendment and as its amendment became an integral part of this law, and on April 12, three days after the assembly's work began, and it began its work on April 9th. Therefore, 141 members of the Rules of Procedure of this assembly and this law, which the Government is said to be giving timely amendments, coming out to the MPs, were not brought in a democratic manner, because the amendment was adopted in an unbusiness way in this Rules of Procedure. The amendment of any of these MPs, which is identical to this amendment, could have been accepted and would have become an integral part of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4601	I don't know why you didn't pick up on time when it was that point. That was before I gave my word to Mr. Secretary. Come in on time. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Labour Relations Act, you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Bozidar Vučurović, Lazar Marjanski, Branislav Blažić, Stevan Kesejic, Božidar Vujic, Radojko Petrovic, Hranislav Perić, Stevan Gudurić, Dragan Čolić, Vitomir Plužarevic, Goran Cvetanović, Ljubomir Kragović, Natasa Jovanovic, Veroljub Arsić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Petar Jojic, Srboljub Živanovic, Borislav Pljević, Slobodan Janjic, Milorad Mirčić, Toma Bushetić, Toma Bušetić, Đorđe Mamula, Dragoljub Stamenković and Goran Cvetanovic. On 10 April this year, MP Srboljub Zivanovic withdrew Amendment 9 to Article 1(4). The bill, and MP George Mamula, at the session of the Legislative Committee, announced that he had given up the amendments submitted to the bill. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments submitted to the draft law. I'm opening a principled search. The word was received by Minstar Mr Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4602	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to the National Assembly to amend the laws in the field of employment and employment. The main objectives of the proposed changes are greater social security of employees, higher rights on the basis of mandatory social insurance, a minimum profit which ensures greater material and social security of employees, a level of pay for the same and similar jobs in public services and state bodies, the elimination of the grey economy, i.e. the work and payment of earnings on black, the strengthening of the responsibilities of all law-abiding entities. The papers introduced in the field of tax and contribution require appropriate amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act in the part which regulates the system of earnings, remuneration and other remuneration of employees. The proposed changes create conditions for the application of the fiscal system in this area on a new basis, compatible with modern European legislation. The law defines earnings on a gross principle, creates conditions for applying proposed legal solutions in the field of taxes and contributes to the work relating to the payment of these commitments. Gross earnings include all income on the basis of employment, profit, profit and profit benefits, as well as contributions to compulsory social insurance and taxes and profits. In addition, the introduction of a gross principle into the profit system eliminates the grey economy at the expense of earnings, since all receipts, regresses, a warm meal, overtime, various types of fees that were the most common subject of tax avoidance and contributions contained in gross earnings. The establishment of the payout obligation eliminates the second widespread form of the grey economy in the area of earnings, and since there is no longer possible payment of earnings in goods, bonuses and other ways. This method of calculating earnings ensures that employees in the social security sector obtain an adequate amount of the right to pay in the amount of the contribution, since the basis for determining the right is made up of the salary in which they include income supplements, which have been paid to date, but have not entered the basis for the exercise of rights, pensions, unemployment benefits, sick leave for more than 60 days and so on. It is particularly important that the law introduces one of the basic international conventions of guaranteed rights, the right to minimum earnings. Minimum earnings are a qualitatively new institute that provides the employee with a significantly higher level of law. So far, the government has established minimum earnings and has been at 280 dinars since the beginning of 2000. The minimum profit, according to the amendments to the law, is estimated at 35% of the average earnings in the Republic's economy on the basis of the published data on average and is now around 1,850 dinars. Of course, this amount isn't enough to meet all needs, but it's seven times larger than it's ever been. The growth of production and profit and this amount will be significantly higher, at a level that will meet the existential needs of the family. The employee’s earnings resulting from the labour price, labour performance and working time are determined according to the jobs at which the employee is deployed, starting with the labour price for the simplest work and job coefficient which contains the complexity of work, responsibility at work, working conditions and professional training. Employees shall exercise the right to supplement their earnings for work longer than full-time, work on the day of national and religious holidays, night work, time spent in work, past work, work on shifts, eating during work days spent on work, regression for the use of annual holidays, labour costs and stay on the ground, other additions in accordance with the collective contract. The amount of income supplements shall be determined by collective agreement. The proposed solution foresees that the labour contract determines the cost of work employed for the standard effect and full-time and the elements for determining earnings in accordance with the law and collective agreement. Profits are paid once, at least once a month, only in cash. In addition to the right to earn money, employees have the right to receive other benefits, the cost of transport for arrival and departure from work, the expenses for official travel in the country and abroad, as well as the severance allowance for retirement and in the event of termination of a working relationship at the level established by the collective agreement. This law lays down the particular obligation of the employer to provide to the payee an account on a prescribed form containing profit, profit, income allowance, other income, invoiced and paid liabilities on the basis of taxes and income contributions, legal, administrative and other deductions from the payment amount. In addition, the control of the payout and payment of liabilities on the basis of contributions and taxes is strengthened, by establishing the appropriate powers of the NBJ, the Accounting and Payment Office, the labour inspection, in case the employer fails to fulfil the obligations relating to the payment of earnings and the payment of taxes and the contribution to compulsory social insurance on earnings. The proposed legal solutions have increased the fines for the violation of this law and have given greater authority to the inspection of the work in the control of the application of this law, especially the most significant provisions relating to employment on black, or where the employer receives an employee, and does not conclude an employment contract with him and does not submit a application for compulsory social security, a violation of the provisions of the laws and collective contract where the employer does not carry out an employee’s payout or minimum earnings. The relevant legal solutions for the case of job lay-offs have been established in the range of 6-12 earnings employed and net. The proposal for a law of severance shall establish a gross amount of double to five times the amount of the employee's salary. The proposed amounts are higher, especially in the light of current net earnings guaranteed at 280 dinars, and the proposed minimum gross earnings which according to statistics should amount to around 1,900 dinars. If it is known that one number of employees received only guaranteed earnings and which would be the basis for the payment of the severance payment, this can best be seen on the following case. Six guaranteed net earnings are 1,680 dinars and six minimum earnings are 11,400 dinars. This is only part of the changes in labour legislation that were necessary because of the overall reform of the fiscal system. It is in preparation for the adoption of a new law in the field of labour and employment, in co-operation with social partners, trade unions and employers' organisations, as well as international organisations to comply with European countries' standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4603	Dragan Markovic answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4604	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the presentation of Minister Djelic, which included the entire tax system that we have discussed these days and the tax system that we will have in the next period. I would ask Mr. Djelic to explain to me how a four-member family will live, where two people work in a factory, if we know that spending for 60 square meters, for a four-member family, the next -- electricity of 700 dinars, heating of 880 dinars, a stable phone of 260 dinars, in this calculation I don't take a mobile phone, utility services of 75 dinars, if one child goes to a kindergarten of 500 dinars and a haircut for a four-member family, once a month for 100 dinars, times four, that's four hundred dinars. That totals 2,815 dinars. If we add, Mr. Minister, a consumer basket, which is 12,000 dinars, that comes out 14.815 dinars. It's transparent, Mr. Minister, foreign expenditure. We're going transparently to the side of the income. Foreign income is, if two people work in a factory, by 4,000 dinars, what is the average personal income in Serbia, that is 8,000 dinars, so explain to me, Mr. Minister, when we subtract 8,000 dinars from 14.815 dinars that is 6,815 dinars. Every family has to borrow from someone. You, Mr. Minister, mention some loans. Let's see what that means today for a worker who works in a factory and has 4,000 dinars and takes a loan from a bank. First of all, he has to be credited to be able to do it monthly, if the loans are at six months, to pay every loan. If one stove costs 10,500 dinars, a fridge that went down, because we criticized the old government that families couldn't provide what they needed, cost 10,000 dinars, that's 20,000 dinars. How much is the monthly war, Mr. Minister, to anyone who asks for credit and whether he can be creditworthy? He can't. Mr. Minister, your law abolishes the family's glory, because for a four-member family, if 10 guests come to that host for the glory of baptism, I have to do it transparently, individually, since you lived in France and you don't know what are the first Slavic customs in Serbia, if one pig of 30 kilos, Mr. Minister, should provide that family for those guests, chickens.... (Glasses: Theme.) The theme, gentlemen, is the presentation of Mr. Minister on Tax Laws. If we need to take one kilo of dried products, Mr. Minister, if we need to take one liter of brandy, 20 beers and 10 liters of juice, that comes out 5,700 dinars, Mr. Minister. Explain to me, Mr. Minister, where will the citizens pay their dues? You're, like, talking out there, not listening to it, because you don't even have the answer to what I asked you. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you, this is the third time I've asked you to come out and answer me, if I show you the side of income and the side of expenditure transparently - where will the citizens live? If the new privatisation program says that 50% of the extra labor force goes to the bureau, and thus loses the regression, loses a warm meal, it's a big item...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4605	Mr Djelic did not explain it at all, nor did the rapporteur according to this law, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4606	I'm done. If you take it away from him, when he goes to the bureau, a warm meal and a regress, that's a big item for every family, and that's a 50% surplus labour force, and we're talking about labour laws, Mr. Minister, so I'd like you to explain to me -- where is the family going to provide these funds? I told you then about the agricultural producer, that the five-member family that deals with agriculture has 5 hectares of land, and it takes 171,000 dinars to ensure that they can live. That means selling 60 acres of land, times 100 marks, that's 180,000 dinars. What will anyone who lives on the fifth floor who has no squares of land, Mr. Minister, come in and explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4607	Mr. Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4608	The minister will wait, since we've waited 10 years for him to grow up, get out of the diaper, replace the doll with something better, more suitable, etc. But in order for the minister to have something to talk about, we have completed a package of tax laws, and we have set out in a package of laws on amendments and amendments to labour legislation. This is where Minister Dragan Milovanovic (if it was so) comes out to the pay phone and says, "They're just preparing new laws, and this is how it is, a little bit of a distraction for MPs." It's not exactly those words, but that's the point. And why didn't you immediately prepare the full laws, so that we don't get distracted, but to go to the adoption of these comprehensive laws, so that we can look at the concept of your policy in the field of labour and social security. You have avoided it for some reason, for the same reason that Minister Djelic has so far been constantly avoiding, so this parliament is deluding the data that their government has abolished the solidarity logs. We abolished that in October of the month, when it wasn't heard of Djelic, when it was known that there was once an adviser to Chubais, and I guess he was forbidden to enter the Czech Republic, Poland, where it was, I can't remember that, it doesn't matter. Or, here, to drill into the chest that a tax to get out of the country was abolished, when it was the jurisdiction of the Federal Assembly, and he announced a subscription to television. They took off the fee, and now the subscription -- well, good for God's sake, so many years of fussing about the tax, now there's going to be a tax coming back, but it's going to be called a little nicer -- subscription. Dragan Milovanovic, as Minister of Labour and Employment, came to the post as a union official, Malten, that it was not Branislav Canka, as a Serbian Leh Valensa. He was drilling his chest with an advocate for labour rights, for labour interests, for improving the working class's standard of living, sitting in a ministerial chair and well directed his MP to the workers - what I told you, nothing is valid, that you, dear workers, believed in Dragan Milovanovic, now write off nicely, let it go down the Danube, let the wind take away. Dragan Milovanovic is now a minister, and now it is not the task of Dragan Milovanovic to protect workers' rights, it is now the task of Dragan Milovanovic to skin workers. And he's already headed that way. Here, let's see what that law contains -- already in the first member of the restrictions. Earlier, when a worker was fired, when the need for his work ceased, when he could not be provided with another job, his severance was paid by a collective contract, which for workers up to 10 years of employment was minimum - 6 months’ wages. It now reduces Dragan Milovanovic to two months' wages. Well, it's better if workers get less pay as severance money, because less taxes, they'd better get less pay, they'd eat less, they'd starve. Because they won't be able to find a new job. Workers who have a job internship of 10 to 20 years, instead of 8 previous salaries, which followed them as a right to severance, will now have three, that's what the law guarantees, if the employer doesn't have mercy, so that's a little more. Those who have between 20 and 30 years of work experience had earlier the right to 10 pay of severance, and now four wages, and those who have over 30 years of work experience, and no one else will work alive, instead of 12 pay of severance, will now have only 5. And when they get those five salaries, they still buy one rope and hang themselves. What else do they do after 30 years of work? Now, that is, therefore, the essence of this new labour legislation. There is also a sense of the new government here, that now, in gross earnings, a warm meal is being calculated, and a regress (there has already been a speech). Why -- to tax that, too. You know, a hot meal is so low, it's about 1,000 dinars now, that the state can't be damaged because every employee gets an untaxed thousand dinars, so the other one is taxed. If the state has fallen for taxing those 1,000 dinars of warm meals, what perspective does it offer us? What does she promise us? Or, if the state has fallen to taxing those 4,000 dinars of vacation regress, which is paid once a year, the government does not see any perspective. The government doesn't have any serious concept, she doesn't know how to find money, she doesn't know how to make that money, she thinks - all the money she needs, she has to take it away from the people. Why didn't you say that in the election campaign? What you didn't write in your program is that you're much more inventive, that you're much more resourceful in inventing new taxes and that that's why you're fighting for power, that we're little children than you are when you're making taxes. Minister Djelic just dead cold for this speaker admits that in a disastrous way he represented tax laws, and even so condescending to his Prime Minister -- he's right to slap him, he's right to push him with his foot, he's right to beat him with a stick, he's right, because he's the president, and he's the minister, he has to listen. Well, Minister, after such a confession at this pay phone, the only logical way out is to resign. You were a disaster representing tax laws - resignation. Let the minister come and represent them better, and that's it. Dragan Milovanovic is unable to protect workers' rights and labour interests, is unable to vote for new rights, which will be guaranteed by law, but is abolishing already existing ones. Now you can't have an employee in a company who doesn't have money on his account, who can't pay his salary, he can't even get it in nature. Well, I guess it could be in pig's halves, if there's no money, I guess in other groceries, rice, flour, sugar, if it's some kind of company, or a company that deals with agricultural production. You know, you can't lie to any employee that there's no money in the account, if the company has money in the account. If the company has money in the account, then it should be prohibited to pay for parts of the wages in nature. But if the company doesn't have any money in the account, the workers always know, no one can hide it from them. Then at least there's something that needs to be made possible for survival, from today to tomorrow, so that the kids at home don't get hungry, so if it's the pig's half, if it's flour, if it's sugar, if it's oil, it can't hurt the country. That should be made possible. Minister Dragan Milovanovic came to put an end to it - the working class, don't worry, if you have no salary, you won't get no food, no hot meal, no regression. You DOS always promise workers, here, the other night and Djindjic on TV says -- there's gonna be big layoffs, that's painful. He confessed to Djindjic that it was painful. Of course, it won't hurt Djindjic. It's painful, we'll find it painful, and hundreds of thousands of people without a job. You're about to do that, you're here punishing an employer who's not in order to pay his salary by forbidding him to work for 90 days or 60 to 90 days. You're closing down the company so it can't work, if he's late on the payroll. You will lead here to the preventive closure of the firm. And it's over. You know, you can't enforce laws like this until you've secured those six billion dollars, so anyone who's out of a job to give him at least a month's pay, you go into investment. It's easy to take money, but the people expected investment from you. (President: Time. Those investments that we couldn't give in those amounts that you promised. You promised six billion, we didn't think of that, because we knew it couldn't get to six billion. Now give these 6 billion so you won't need such restrictive legislation. Oh, no, it's here that Minister Djelic misses, welcoming Minister Milovanovic. Minister Djelic kidnaps those who have a little bit of money, and Dragan Milovanovic drives them out of work, without compensation, without severance, reduces their right, not even to give them little food, not to regress them for their vacation, etc. It is an economic and social policy of DOS authority. It is not a problem then, Minister Djelic, which he has been tragically explaining or in Dragan Milovanovic, who knows nothing at all, but reads here what others have prepared for him. The problem is in your wrong economic and social policy. There is no genius in the white world that can justify your taxes and your labour and social laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4609	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4610	Just two things. One question is the discussion of facts, arguments, and the other is morals and cheeks. To receive such ideas and hear from those who led our citizens to the beggar stick. Those geniuses who found ways to give them bonds that weren't secured, so they destroyed some systems, like EPS. Those who found a way to tax them through two hyperinflation in 10 years, and one was the second largest in mankind's history. Those who were able to take away the money they'd been saving for years and wanted to provide for their family. Those who have succeeded in the wrong economic policy to bring our economy into this situation that we have today, not only through $12.2 billion in foreign debt, but 835 billion in internal debt. It is up to you MPs and our people to judge whether these arguments should continue to be heard, whether we should continue to listen to criticism about this difficult course, but which we must begin. I think we have to admit on the one hand that we're in a difficult situation, but it's complicated to find ways to step out of this where we met. As for the bills, they knock on the open door, trying to prove it's hard to live in Serbia today. Yes, today it is extremely difficult to live in Serbia. We all know that, and that's why we're going to do everything to improve, as far as this new government's social policy is concerned, just a few facts. In October 2000, two years late for children's allowances, all paid off, the debt is no more. So one of the coupons paid off in advance, and if we look at those 26 months for the most vulnerable and they're paid, and if we look at the urgency of pensions and salaries of all those who live on the budget, they're paid regularly. Finally, the state she was taking, the state that was saying that what you thought was yours, so she told you no, it's only one account in one bank, but you can't get the money. This state and this government began returning to savings last Tuesday at 10 a.m., and it is also proud of these authorities that they provided 440 marks in this budget of the Republic of Serbia, and more than half of these funds to pay off. Of course it's hard to live in Serbia today, but this budget and these tax laws and these social laws, moving to gross wages is the right way to step forward, but also quickly get out of this difficult situation, without demagogy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4611	Mr. Ivkovic has the word, and Mr. Seselj has the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know very well that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act is on the agenda, but since there is enough here from miles of importance for that law, so do I. Of course I repeat, in order for children's allowances, salaries in education, culture, science to be greater, all in time, that we didn't have to spend 20 billion dinars to take pictures of the end of 127 renovated bridges, the end of 500 apartments and houses built, thanks to NATO aggressors who wanted us not to pay for it, so that the people would vote in the elections as they voted. As for miles for the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Law, Minister Djelic may not know, but the federal government has helped those who are 82% more expensive than the other day, and only so much as congratulate the citizens on the republican laws. Otherwise, as for the industrial production index, my dear gentlemen, those who were unable to lead this country had in March of last year such production that you, Mr. Djelic, made only 92% of last year's March production, and in central Serbia 89% of last year's production. I apologize, if it is not true, Ms. Milev Žizic, professor of Doctor, director of the Republic Institute for Information and Statistics, which is yours - not true, she announced and said - central Serbia 89% production this March in the successful DOS government compared to last March in the poor government of the Socialists. Total industrial production 93.4% compared to last March. When it comes to the conditions under which the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act will apply, I think that all of you in this room, especially the Minister, would have to warn that prices in March of this year 2001 are 3.12 times higher than in March 2000. Of which, industrial and food products have as much as 3.7 times the price in March this year compared to last March. Minister Djelic said inflation was 116%, so gather how many times the prices are higher than inflation. So much for the success of this DOS government. Life cost indices are 3.1 times higher, although inflation was 117%. Speaking of which, it would be very interesting to read the explanation given by the resolution minister for labour and social issues in line with this law. Otherwise, the resolution minister was the leader of some independence, and as much as he was independent of evidence, it is in the DOS government, as one fellow MP came out and said - I am the president of the Union of Independence, we have to smile how independent he is, since DOS is an MP. So, it is explained that gross principles are being introduced in the profit system, that the grey economy is being eliminated at the expense of profit, and since all the incomes are contained in the new concept of profit and now the minister, the president of the union, who is engaged in independent work, needs to eliminate the regression, the warm meal, the overtime, the various kinds of fees that were the most common topics of tax avoidance and contribution, contained in the new concept of profit. By establishing the obligation to pay off the profits in money, other widespread forms of the grey economy have been eliminated, and this has been well seen by the ministry in the area of earnings, since it is no longer possible to pay off, be careful to rat out profits in goods, bons, etc. You know, when you read it in a statement written by the president of one of the unions, so when you see that prices are 3.7 times higher in March than in March last year, while production is less than 0.9 of production in March last year, it means the first year after NATO aggression, then you understand why the City Committee of the Skin and Footing Union of the President of the Committee writes: "As its absurd tax law for the current state of business and society took away the last crust of bread, taxing the warm meal for which this union fought and fought so hard, because it has the most poverty, now the government in the image of our minister for labour and employment wants to send us to the streets so hungry and humiliated, because the social program for the workers who are going to be out of work. You notice that we write with obvious anger, because a group of textile, leather and clothing employees suffered the greatest victims in the time of something forgotten here, a ten-year economic blockade, as a branch that has never been in a monopoly society. So tell the Minister for Labour and Employment, who has accepted such laws as a good solution for the adoption of the social programme, to step down from the ministerial post in time and to withdraw the humiliating laws intended for the weary working class. It will be better, believe us, than that a huge anger of workers will appear on the streets of our cities throughout Serbia, because we estimate that workers with such a degree of dissatisfaction will not be able to remain in empty halls, hungry and humiliated, of course, without any perspective or security for the future. At the same time, we thank the parliamentary groups and individuals who fought and fought in the Serbian Parliament for the survival of solid housing. "A voice from the O.R.? ) He is independent, but he is not an MP in the Assembly, as an independent, nor is he a minister, as president of an independent union. What's there to say? It should be said that the fact that this law, which is proposed, is once again verifies taxes and contributes to a warm meal, stamp, regression and field supplements. But not just that. As the chairman of the SRS parliamentary group said, it couldn't have been without another suspension, which is to reduce insurance for those who are up to 10 years of internship, from six to twice the amount of earnings, from eight to three, from ten to four, from 12 to six times the amount of earnings. Simply, this proposed legislative project carries out further verification of everything the government has done through legal projects in terms of tax burdens. Simply once again, not only does it verify additional tax collection and contribution to essential social components in enterprises, but it also reduces workers' rights in specific situations when they lose their jobs. The only thing that's good in this law, and we especially point out, is the introduction of a minimum profit concept. But what is wrong is the fact that few collectives in such a tough tax policy will be able to earn 35% of the average profit in Serbia and pay it to their workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4613	Mr. Seselj, second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS was only in power for two and a half years, from 24 March 1998 to October 2000. In those two and a half years, we mainly fought against the aggression of the NATO Pact, against the aggression of Minister Djelic. Because what NATO did to us by air bombing, that's what Minister Djelic is doing to us now, as finance minister. So he's the same employer, only once he's sending us bombers, and another time the incompetent ministers are going to destroy us. Minister Djelic cannot blame the Serbian radicals for the difficult economic and social situation in this country. Because when I fought against those who were guilty of such a situation, I was sentenced to eight years in prison and went to maintenance, current Minister Djelic went abroad to NATO schools. That's the difference between us. I have fought against such a situation in the country for the next twenty years. I have 56,000 marks left of captured old foreign exchange savings in Beobaca, and Minister Djelic has nothing trapped there. And he's accusing me of old foreign savings. The old foreign savings were taken from us by an earlier NATO agent, named Ante Markovic, whose feet now go to Minister Djelic. (President: Mr. Seselj, I ask you to keep an eye on what words you use here and what comparisons. ) Minister Djelic says those bonds were worthless, and then says he paid them off. They're not all paid, but they have to be paid. Sam here admitted that a billion dinars paid off through goods to companies that owed the state. Minister Djelic is attacking us that we have paid three back-up pensions through an electricity bill. But the electricity industry was able to produce enough electricity. The power industry only collapsed when you took over. We could have collected the electricity four times, 400%. We could have done it. We could have picked up the bread three or four times. We could've collected the milk five times. We were able to do all of this, but unlike Minister Djelic, we realized that Serbia was economically and socially ill, we wanted patients to be treated with some tailored therapy, step by step, and Djelic was hooking up with poisons, so she survived -- she died, he doesn't care. Tomorrow, when Serbia disappears, he gets back on the plane and leaves where he came from. (President: Please, the labour law is on the agenda. That's what you should have warned Minister Djelic. This is not how the Serbian economy can be treated and social problems cannot be solved. As Minister Djelic beats on one side with heavy artillery, Minister Dragan Milovanovic, on the other hand, settles the ground for bulldozers, so whom he burys, he traps. He's able 50% of the workers to bury by implementing these laws. On the one hand, Minister Djelic will tear the skin out to those who still receive the salary, and on the other hand, Dragan Milovanovic will open the space for hundreds of thousands of workers to be left out of work. It's your economic policy. And where's Covic? ) Covic is just coming in line. Today, we applied for a vote of no confidence in Dusan Mihajlovic, Interior Minister, and after him, Covic comes in line. Now I'm just going to show you an example of what DOS is like. Aleksandra Ljubojevic was employed by the Ministry of Faith and was sent to the maternity leave by Minister Gordana Anicic on 9 November 2000. She was scheduled to report to work on December 11, 2001. The new minister, who was signed as Professor Vojislav Milovanovic, is now firing the same Aleksandra Ljubojevic, who is on maternity leave. Here's the cancellation. The woman has been on maternity leave since November, and these days she's been fired - April 17th. This is a picture and opportunity of DOS government. It's your mirror. Here, what you're doing, you're mass-released by ideologically inadequate people from the state service, everywhere in Serbia, and at the level of central government, in the state administration, and at the level of local self-government. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4615	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just don't say there wasn't a word about what's on the agenda, because I appreciate it in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4616	Mr. President, you've noticed exactly what I'm going to point to. But my apparition is before speaking to you, as President of the Assembly, rather than to MPs who are constantly hurting the Rules of Procedure, because they are, by chance, irreparable. I hope that you, as president, can correct yourself and more responsibly ask MPs if you should ask ministers, who come out and constantly break Article 98. All three heads of parliament, who spoke one after another, violated Article 98. The previous MP and head of the parliamentary group violated both 98th and 99th. And, Mr. President, you violated article 100, since you were obliged to warn and make warnings, because this assembly has been working for three months. I appreciate your tolerance, I appreciate your desire to create as much conditions here as possible for more normal work. I therefore respect your tolerance, but according to some MPs and MPs, this tolerance only gives them more and more strength to continue to persist in the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and in the abuse of their position. I would ask you, Mr. President, to inform all MPs and all MPs that you will no longer tolerate such behaviour, because this assembly must once begin to look like the responsible parliament and representation of the people of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4617	We've had this as a problem since the first day of this assembly, and I don't really know what to say anymore. You're mostly right, but you offer a solution. No, we're not opening the controversy. You have no right under the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4618	I offered a solution...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4619	Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4620	I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4621	If I were to apply the Rules of Procedure to you right now, I would have to take away your word, because you have no right, let's say, and that's the problem we've been pointing to since day one. The Rules of Procedure again? We all know him by heart, but we have a realisation problem, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4622	The predecessor calls for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure in Article 98 says, "In the course of the speech of the MPs and other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech." The predecessor will recognize that he is one of those who throws away all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4623	Don't throw it away, Mr. Kesey. You spoke to Mr Bogdanovic a little while and you threw it away, if that's true, and then you went out to object that I did not respect the Rules of Procedure and that I did not warn the messengers who spoke and received it. It's this problem that's common, and I don't think it's just mine, it's all of us, and we can solve it together. Here, and now you're talking and throwing. This is the problem, and thank you for warning yourself and the other MPs of the Rules of Procedure. The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4624	This isn't the first time my name has been mentioned, it's not the first time I've lived abroad for many years. That's true. I came back here just because I think this is a historic moment for our country, because if it has styles and brains, no matter how hard it is, there's also a way out, to catch up with Europe, to give some future to our people, so that what my family experienced, when it was meant to go outside to find a better future, is no longer happening. Believe me, many view me as an example, that it may be possible to return to the country and be well received, that perhaps we can reunite those two Serbias away from all ideologys, that we may be building together a better time and a better country. And while I was listening to someone talk about me coming here to shoot some guns, here at my people, I just remembered my two-year-old kid and he's 39.5 this morning and he's asking why aren't you with me, Dad? And I know why I'm here. My message is a message of honesty and desire to help my people, and for those who do not have enough in their heart, to have an honest and little love for their countrymen, wherever they live, I don't know what to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4625	The word has the People's MP Zoran Radovanovic, followed by MP Stevan Ž. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4626	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to remind you at the beginning of the minister that we don't guard goats and sheep at home, but we look after children and we work here. So leave those sad stories for later. Let's get back to the labour law. In one of the morning exhibitions, Mr Jovanovic said, he specifically asked all of us to talk with the power of the arguments, that the discussions that will be held here in parliament would be about reality. We can support your proposal to introduce minimum earnings instead of guaranteed. This is necessary from the point of view of the social security of employees, but there is one problem, because it must be borne in mind that many entities, primarily low-accumulated industries, the textile industry, the leather industry, will not be able to pay 35 per cent of guaranteed earnings from the average of the Republic of Serbia. That's the first one. Secondly, I am talking about arguments, so far, the severance has been established in the range of six times to twelve times the net earnings of the employee, and now in the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act, there is a set of severances ranging from two to five times the amount. Surely, regardless of all the explanations, this will put these people in an unfavourable position and that's an argument. Third, explanation, i.e. The Committee's argument that the legislation of the European Community has been brought into line, and to this I can only say one thing - you ask that, as you have used European prices on Serbian salaries, related to the increase and collection of electricity, energy and everything else, to understand, first of all, you ministers and these people from the government, that this country has been under sanctions for 10 years, that there have been wars in the environment, that in the end we have been beaten, that it is not the same, that it is not living here in Serbia, as it is living in Sweden or Germany, so that we agree with the laws with them. On the other hand, I realize that we must adapt our legislation to the laws of the European Union, but let it be done in a normal way, let it be done correctly to the workers and you ministers, when you go to the mentor, you say it was difficult for us, that we will get better and that one day we will introduce all these laws. Fourth, you don't stand an argument where you say the "gray economy" is eliminated. For you, my dear gentlemen of the DOS, all those receipts that were given to workers, as a social valve, to help workers survive in the last 10 years, I'm talking about the regression of other fees, for you, my dear gentlemen, was an inducer of the gray economy, as if it were likely that some worker who received 1,500 dinars and 1,000 warm meals, with those 1,000 dinars, ran on the street to protect the foreign exchanges, to sell to banks, and thus to destroy our country's monetary system. All this stuff I told you earlier, Mr. Ivkovic read in the union letter, so check it out. Or, when you have direct contact with the workers of the Kraguje's flag, let them explain what's going on. In the end, don't use any of your expert arguments. Use only the two you promised before the election. The first argument was that you're going to improve this country by raising the economy, which stands, which is dead, because with you, ever since you came here, only prisons have worked. Second thing, you promised six billion to bring...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4627	Please stick to the subject of the agenda, the Labour Relations Act, not the closure of billions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4628	I thank the MPs for the warning. I'll be back on the subject. So, six billion, so let's talk. Minister, for you, just one brief message, since I'm a doctor and not you, no more, but the second time you're going out for this pay phone and you're handing over to us for six hours as Penthraxil this same story about how guilty socialists and everyone else is in the country. I remind you of ten years of sanctions, I remind you of war, I remind you of everything that was and therefore, it's a story and you don't need to convince the people otherwise. At the end of the year, tax papers will wait for you, and all of us, but you probably don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4629	Mr. Stevan Z. Gudurić has the word, and Mr. Rade Bajic will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4630	In the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act, in Article 64a. He writes: "Employee has the right to add to the earnings within the meaning of Article 63 paragraph 2 of this Act for longer than full-time work." So in Article 64v, in paragraph 2, it says, "Currency is only paid in money", and in a regulation written by the same government, a Regulation on profit levels and other incomes in public enterprises is said to "employees who work longer than full-time only have the right to redistribute their working hours". Since all workers, even you are in public enterprises, should have equal rights, as should all others to whom you prescribe this law. Also, in article 64. It is said that the employee has the right to receive "and other accessories according to the collective contract". Article 12 states - Article 71 is amended as saying that the employee has the right to "retribution on retirement and termination of employment", and in the next position of that same member states that "the employer can pay the employee a solidarity aid and a jubilee award under conditions, in the manner and in the height of the collective contract". I would ask the Minister to in the Rules of Procedure on the calculation and payment of earnings and other incomes in public enterprises and companies established by public undertakings demonstrate the possibility of such payment. It simply doesn't exist, which means that the government immediately began to reach out to make workers of the first and second kind, probably after a while will do even more, so I would ask someone to explain here if they know why, because I will remind you that, among other things, public enterprises include urban cleanliness, city waterway and sewerage, etc. If anyone thinks it's a very nice job, get them to stick their nose in there and see what it looks like out there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4631	The People's Messenger Rada Bajic has the word, and the next is the People's Messenger, Živodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4632	Dear People's MPs, the Labour Relations Act has so far predicted when a worker ceases for certain reasons, that is, there are no more conditions for working in the company, to provide him with one of his rights, which is retraining, prequalification, employment with another employer, or, if none can, to pay him compensation. Under the bill of law that is before us, workers who come into this situation are absolutely in an unequal position, i.e. in a subordinate position compared to the law that previously applied. The minister put out a bill here that I think absolutely doesn't stand, and that's what we're going to show on a simple working display. So far, otherwise, you know that the severance is moving depending on years of work, from six times to twelve times the amount of work, while now predicting double to five times the amount, also depending on work. Here's a classic example, if we know that now about 4,200,00 dinars is the average of earnings, and the reason was to go on gross earnings, if we add that it's a warm meal of 900,00 dinars, and that's the question of whether everyone can pay it in that amount, that the regress for the annual holiday is about 4,200,00 dinars, I think that was the case for last year, the employer is obliged to pay it now and the same question is whether they can all be paid, and it's known that the regress is not paid for 12 months, but once and it's about, if we split it into 12 months, 350,00 dinars: when we add it turns out that gross income is 5,450,00 dinars and if we add commitments, as Minister Djelic said about 80% to that, it will now be 9,810,00 dinar. Nightly work, overtime, should now come, but in most cases this falls within that gross personal income. So, for a worker up to 10 years of training, whose work had stopped the need, the severance amounted to 19.600,00 dinars. Under the current law, six severances per average net due to 4,200,00 dinars are 25,200,00 dinars. We're constantly catching each other, he says - an extended base, they're taking field supplements, an annual regression, a warm meal, and when we add it to the grotesque of businesses, it's about 23% of the extended base, and now that we're taking it as a severance by the previous law, it turns out that he's had about 25.200,00 dinars for up to 10 years of work, and now 19.600,00 dinars, it turns out that he's at least 20% damaged by 20%. If his standard of living is considered to have dropped by at least that much, then it can be seen how much more unfavourable the situation is for the workers now. It is absolutely possible to accept minimum earnings instead of already guaranteed earnings, but it also raises the question of how many companies and in which situation can pay them, especially in the case of very strict legal provisions in the case of non-payment of earnings over a certain period of time, which is at least once a month. The fines are now no more than one to 10,000, but 200,000 dinars. Thus, he has been caught in several ways by the employer’s scissors, especially this worker who has lost his job and who is preparing for severance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4633	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4634	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 80(2) You read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4635	National MP Mr. Lazar Marjanski expressed his doubts about the existence of the quorum and therefore I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards to determine the quorum. I remind the MPs from the SRS and the SPS that the provision of Article 113. The Rules of Procedure say that MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering an O.R. by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to check out by leaving the O.R. Please insert your cards to determine the quorum. No quorum. I call upon the Service to count the MPs present. (Serspake's Radical Party emissaries leave the hall. ) Here we had an example of an MP calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and at the same time he committed an injury himself after he had not been identified. Since the count found that we do not have a quorum and it has been found that 109 MPs are present in the hall, I am setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4636	I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. We've got a quorum, we're moving on. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4637	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, for the bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act, I claim that the largest number of people are interested. First of all, all who are employed, then employers and certainly all those who eagerly expect to start a work relationship. However, an analysis of this law concludes that one serious question is being raised, to whom these changes will protect, whether employees or employers. I'll really try to argue with these dilemmas, through my discussion, to express myself. First of all, we already have changes in Article 1 that after years the internship is paid, and that is, up to 10 years of insurance, it is said - at least at the level of double the amount of earnings, and earlier it was and still 6 average earnings paid in the previous month. Secondly, from 10 to 20 years of age, the proposal is - at least at the height of the triple amount, and it was 8. Third, from 20 to 30 years of insurance -- at least at the height of the quadruple amount, and it was 10. And finally, fourthly, over 30 years of insurance -- at least at the height of the five-fold, and there were still 12 average personal earnings paid in the previous month. If we just compare the prime numbers, in template 2, 3, 4 and 5 with still valid 6, 8, 10 and 12, it's obvious that this variant is much more unfavourable. I know it's one of the explanations that comes to an increased base and introduces gross earnings. If we take into account that the regression is given once a year, and if the employer has money, if not, then we do not get it, and to support it with the fact that the healthcare workers in Serbia received 200 dinars of regress for this year in conditions where the regress still does not fall under profit taxation. And as for a warm meal, it's like an untaxed part, we have to admit, it arrives regularly every month to employees. But in each variant, the proposed amount is much smaller than it has been in the current law. The question is, what exactly is the legislator's intention? These are payouts that apply practically to all employees whose work has stopped the need, which is actually a technological surplus. As a rule, we know that there is a technological surplus in companies where personal incomes are very low, even many times and far below the average republican level, so the question is how each one whose work stops the need. We know that the basic purpose of these funds is that at least temporarily provide for himself and his family or that it is some means that they will be able to start a new job. Since the severance reduction is not in any proportion to the increase in gross earnings, the question is where is our basic concern for each employee and its improvement. Or, not to cultivate the illusion that there will be some employer who will take a man at the age of 20 or 30 into employment. The second thing I would point out is the introduction of gross principles into the profit system. What's actually going in there? We've said it many times in this week's session, we've said it again, that there's also a regression and a warm meal. However, we appreciate if it is a warm meal that is received in cash compensation. But we here need to know that a large number of workers have never actually received a warm meal as a cash amount, but simply there are kitchens where they actually get a cooked meal. I'll tell you that, above all, in Kikinda, it's PIC, Livnica and Toza Markovic, and I believe that throughout Serbia, a very large number of working organisations are really cooking hot meals for their workers. I wonder how they're going to increase that retirement base and whether there's going to be a day-to-day calculation of how many people ate a piece of bread, whether they took a soup, a weed or meat. Indeed, what he will explain as a positive in the sense of introducing gross earnings. I agree that these are all workers' rights, but they don't have to be respected, at least I don't see anywhere in the bill that ultimately every employer has to respect it. When I say that in this case not even an employer is protected, I mean that the employer is obliged to, even at the cost of not paying the worker the income, to pay the state all the due taxes. In any case, it's clear that it takes money to fill the budget, but what happens if the employer can't do it anyway. There is one criminal provision that says there is a ban on carrying out operations for 30 to 90 days. I wonder if this is all a little too strict and if all of this is appropriate in today's working and living conditions in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4638	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4639	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, every draft law to be delivered to this assembly, and thus this draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law comes from the fact that our fiscal system is adapted to the fiscal system in European legislation. I really don't know exactly what this fiscal system is like under European law, but I do know what our laws are like. They come from increasing tax rates where they were low or where they did not exist, to be released where tax exemptions existed, thereby increasing the tax burden on businesses and citizens. If all this is true, and surely it is true, then you cannot convince us opposition MPs, especially SPS MPs, that it is in the interest of the citizens. Maybe some citizens who don't live in these places. All packages of the law, especially laws relating to personal income, come from gross earnings. Because, in gross earnings, you now include a regress for an annual vacation, a warm meal, overtime and other types of compensation for a reason. You think that's how you shut down the gray economy. I really don't know who, if he organized a diet of social workers, avoided paying taxes and contributions? I don't think that should have happened, nor should it be a burden now, nor should a regress for a vacation, which is paid once a year. I think that under the conditions in which our economy has been operating these years, it was the only way for individual employers to pay something off to workers, so that workers could survive. I don't know who could, and he didn't want to pay the workers' wages, so he wouldn't tie them up? You claim that the conditions of adjudication will change. However, since you came to power, the economy has been working with 25% capacity, compared to 75% of the capacity in which the economy worked when we were in power. For the reason that the economy works with 25% capacity, you are changing Article 34 paragraph 1 point 1-4 and determining under which conditions the need for employee work ceases. The labour law has established the obligation of the employer to provide the employee, for whose work the need is determined, with certain rights, namely the second place of work, the establishment of a working relationship with another employer, requalification or pre-qualification and payment of one-time assistance. If the economy in these conditions works, and how are things going to work out even more difficult conditions, then I don't know where this employee is going to get a job, where's the other employer, if there's a surplus of workers? I don't think there's any interest in retraining, or qualified workers, because what's any knowledge for him if he doesn't have a place to work? For this reason, the worker will stop working, provided that the employer provides him with severance, and that severance in the current law was from six to twelve times the net earnings. You are now introducing that this severance is from double to five times the gross earnings, depending on the length of the job. That's what you're saying by saying that the nominal amount is going to be higher. The nominal amount may be higher, but in real terms it will certainly be less, because make sure that a warm meal, a regress for vacation, a pension allowance, disappears from personal income, because the employer will have no interest in paying those fees, if he has to pay taxes and contributions. In that sense, be sure that whoever needs to get that severance money won't be happy to be out of a job. You're removing guaranteed earnings, and I'm justifying that, but you're introducing minimum earnings, which provides a minimum of the employee's material and social security. In Article 6 of the proposed law, the minimum earnings referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be 35% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic, according to the latest published data by the Republic's statistical authority. It's my only concern, when I read the argument, that this minimum profit is 40%, but I accept that it's 35%, because that's what the law says. In the proposed amendments to the Labour Relations Act, you give greater authority to competent inspections and labour inspection, NBJ, Accounting and Payment Office. Whoever's in favour of the rule of law, he really has to accept it. These services will have to do, they will have to do with the adoption of the Bill on Pension and Health Insurance, when the employer is obliged to pay taxes and profit contributions on the 30th of the month, on the lowest basis, which you say is transparent, then the competent inspection services will have to do indeed. It will have a lot of work to do on July 31st, when taxes and contributions to earnings from June following the law's entry into force. In these conditions of seduction, economic operators will stop working, workers will lose their jobs, and that is the goal, given how privatisation is being prepared. The sale of our companies is in sight, and then by plane, not only will government experts land, but also their business associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4640	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4641	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the esteemed members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are, of course, several reasons why I don't think the bill should be accepted. I'll only name four. First, this law proposes a reduction in the amount foreseen for severance, from 3 to 2.4 times, and the argument that this is because, instead of the minimum, we are going to go to guaranteed and gross earnings, it is not right, because there is no correlation between this reduction from 3 to 2.4 times, and some amounts that, if there is a correlation, should be. The question arises - why is it done? I honestly don't want to believe that this is done on purpose, because in practice so far, the subject of dismissal was often members, or supporters of opposition parties. I want to believe it's not about that. The second thing, which is why I object to this law, is the argument that says (quote): "In addition, the introduction of a gross principle into the system of income eliminates the grey economy at the expense of profit, since all receipts, regress, a warm meal, overtime, various types of fees that were the most common subject of tax and contribution avoidance are contained in the new concept of profit." Please have a nice, warm meal, etc. - Where did this gray economy come from? It was, first of all, a poor or extorted economy, a survival economy, which is practically eliminated by this proposal. Also, in light of the reasons for the law's adoption, it is said that this is how the EU legislation was brought into line. And I say that's good, but we don't start by agreeing our salaries to EU standards first, which we don't do before with the alignment of business environments that will allow this to be paid, but we start right off with how and what we're going to do with taxes. The third reason I don't think it would be good to accept this law is because in the old law, the obligations that were based on guaranteed earnings had priority over everything else. I claim that a good number of companies will operate on the edge of the economy. From there, it must be paid first, and then, in order to maintain some social peace, then to pay for something else. And of course, there were some influences and chambers of commerce. Now I see they've been wiped out, too. I think both were unnecessarily erased. And fourthly, my colleague Jovic mentioned that there is one contradiction -- is that 35% or 40%? Therefore, on page 2 of the reasons, it reads (quote): "The proposed changes, instead of guaranteed net earnings, determines the right of the employee to minimum earnings, providing a minimum of material and social security for the employee. The minimum profit is 40% of the average earnings in the Republic. Minimum earnings shall be paid by order of the Director... ", etc. On page 4 of the reasons of members who are also changing, it also says: "The minimum earnings of the 1st article stand at 40%", and in Article 6 of the law it is said to be 35%. Please make up your mind, I'm asking the Proposer to decide whether it's 35%, or 40%, so we know. So much for this law, and since there is still time, I would use that time to thank the representatives of the Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for what they have done and do to solve the problem of rising tensions in the Red Flag Institutes. I honestly do that, as a man who spent 27 years of his working life in the flag, a late father of 40 and a grandfather as much. But, gentlemen, why have we waited three months to solve this? I think there's a stenogram, at one of the first sessions, I said that the main problem is growing social tensions in large systems. Does that have to happen, so that we can begin to resolve it? Anyway, I'm glad that's how it happens, and I want to comment on that Chinese saying, "It doesn't matter if the cat is red or black, it's important to hunt mice." It is important that we know which 5,500 of the 6,500 workers signed the agreement. Please, there are 3.5 times more workers in the car factory, there are five times more workers in the flag. Then who are they to sign? Then what is it with the others? What's it all about? So, I'm saying, with all the gratitude that we're talking about here based on data that won't cause public harassment, maybe someone will think that this solved the dedicated production in the flag, and there are 6,500 of them, or someone else got rid of it. We need to know what's going on. We must insist on solving this problem in the flag, that it be a guideline of how other things should be solved. I thank you for the time you've given me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4642	The word is made by MP Slobodan Pavlovic, and after that, MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4643	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, in the final address of the MPs of the National Assembly, Minister Djelic, who is now no longer present because this is not on the agenda of his jurisdiction, I wanted to take one argument to oppose his assessment of the amount of budgetary procedures he has said here, but to be honest now that he is not here, and after such an emotional statement he had for this speaker, it may not be a bit ethical to repeat that thing. That's why I want the MPs and the parliamentary assembly to show the document called the Law amending the Federal Budget Act for 2001. Why? Because when we talk about the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, about its participation in the social product, as far as it is in general, we only talked about this budget, and we didn't mention the amount of federal budget, social funds, health funds, to see how much total interventions, how much this burdens the social product, how much the social product will grow, etc. I'm saying this because you believe the federal government's proposal, so if you don't trust the SPS experts, and you don't have to, that's what I said last time, but I suppose you trust the experts and ministers of the federal government, it says in the Federal Budget Act 2001 in Article 3 of point 2. changes and says: "From the income that the SRJ is equal to 23% of all tax revenues paid on sales (the sales tax on goods and taxes on the transport of services), as well as 6% of all the excise products charged," so a total of 29, instead of 40, were designed before the adoption of budgets and these system laws relating to the financing of the Republic of Serbia. This confirms that, to this extent, income volumes have been increased on all grounds, and that the federal budget and the federal government have reduced its participation from 40 to 29. The explanation stands here, I don't want to read, it wouldn't make sense, it just illustrates that what the People's MPs of the SPS, besides other MPs of the opposition parties said, that the budget is large, that it is nominally three times larger than the last time, that the interventions are great for both citizens and the economy, actually this document confirms it. So much so that it wouldn't have turned out if we didn't know what we were talking about. We knew what we were talking about, and the proof is this paper I showed here. As regards the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act, it was written in the light of the law that the reasons for its adoption were, above all, the introduction of a gross principle in the employee earning system, as in any other system law adopted. From that point of view, a gross principle has been introduced, and we will not question that. Secondly, the grey economy is eliminated in the payment of regresses, warm meals, etc. The colleagues who spoke in front of me commented on it, and I don't want to comment on it because I agree with those grades. It is therefore an adequate scope of tax and social security contributions, since it was reportedly irregular in the coming period and there were certain abuses. Consensus with European Union legislation and instead of net earnings guaranteed, gross is introduced, as a right to minimum earnings which implies a minimum of material and social security. When it's okay with it now, the hand to the heart looks great, and modern, looks fair, looks European, looks transparent, and when it goes to the members of the first, so long as it's there, it doesn't prove unfortunately that and I'm sorry that I have to say it. Even Prime Minister Milovanovic did not convince me of what he wrote in the explanation. Article 1 speaks of what he is saying, and not to say again, it is said by all MPs in front of me, but it is quite certain that the account that Minister Milovanovic made for the compensation when the worker was left out of work on any basis, that two instead of six, three instead of eight, four instead of 10, or five instead of 12 salaries, would not stand. I think that's what my colleague Rade Bajic very illustratively showed on one case. In order not to explain further the members that were mentioned, I want Minister Milovanovic, and if he is not able to do it alone, then to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia three complete questions, which are in the context of the law we are talking about. First, a new Law on its own transformation is being announced. We had a few days ago a conversation with Minister Vlahovic, who gave us the concept of this future law. We, at a time when we abolished certain members of the existing law, said what it looks like and what we can expect. It is obvious that what we now have in the draft of the law and according to what Minister Vlahovic has explained, it is undeniable that our forecasts will be realized no matter how difficult or difficult it may be to submit by the government's representatives, however, there will be a change in the transformation system, there will be no sale of businesses in the Republic of Serbia to strategic partners, domestically or Europeanly anyway, and a large number of workers will be out of work. That's what Prime Minister Djindjic said the other day, and that's for sure. My question is, how will their problem be solved in the context of the new transformation law, with this way of implementation and the rest of the workers without a job? Secondly, what, or how, by introducing minimum earnings, will be done with those organisations and those workers who will not be paid 35% of the average earnings in the Republic, and even if we don't argue whether it's 35 or 37, it doesn't matter. How does he think he's gonna solve this thing if he can't? It's in the law, of course, not standing. And third, I want to ask, where's the union? In preparation for this conversation, for this presentation, the union's position on the proposed law, meanwhile, has arrived. This was read by the head of our parliamentary group, Prof. Ivkovic, and others mentioned him, and the union's response and attitude regarding the proposed legislative project is very precise, and the strikes on the streets indicate about what the relationship and the workers are proposing. Secondly, about this third question, where is it or where are the chambers of commerce related to the proposed solutions? I have not heard anywhere that there have been certain talks, coordination, arrangements, and we are fortunate that the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is Mr. Veselinovic, a national MP. And unfortunately, I don't see him here, and I'd ask him what the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has done or hasn't done or what he thinks about this project and how as an association of businesses, which is why it exists, will apply to a law that's on the agenda. Therefore, it is obvious from all of this that if he answers all these questions, there is no, and obviously there is no in these things, then neither I, as an MP nor our parliamentary group, will vote for the adoption of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4644	The word has been given by MP Toma Busetic, followed by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4645	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, respected MPs, legal solutions offered by the Government in the field of labour, social policy and employment are restrictive and unfavourable both by workers and by businesses. Economic reforms, which in the new authorities have nevertheless been reduced to new tax and tax burdens, when it comes to social policy and reform, have, above all, come down to restricting certain employee rights. It is specifically stated in the Labour Relations Act itself, in Article 34, which is changing - the employee whose employment is terminated on any basis must be paid for the severance. Previous legal solutions are far better and better, regardless of how they recalculated net wages and gross earnings. In any case, the previous solutions, which talk about a sixfold net profit of up to 10 years, eight to 20 years, ten times between 20 and 30 and two times and over 30 years of insurance, are significantly better. We can't just look at severances as big social security. First of all, severance means easing certain consequences for those people who are out of work. What's important, especially for the Pomorava County where we have large giants, we have a cable factory, a Glasslaru, a Cementa, we have a large number of workers in these collectives, a large number of workers will be out of work, especially after their own transformation, although it is also a very alarming thing, for example when it comes to the cable factory, because production in the cable factory is currently less 40% than in the time of the most severe sanctions. There's something like that in the Glass, maybe something a little better. But severances are also important for those collectives that are now doing very well. For example, when it comes to Cementara, it will surely be sold as a profitable factory very quickly, a strategic partner will be found, but this strategic partner will not allow the men working in Cement to work 3,000 workers, but it will certainly come down to half, and the other half will be out of work. These severances, in any case, would mean some mitigation of their new status. I also believe that there are a number of other shortcomings in the bill itself. The case works, Article 64a needs to be deleted. 6th and 7th to discuss nutrition during work and regression for the use of annual holidays. In Article 65(2), which states that the minimum earnings of the 1st Article are 35% of the average earnings in the Republic's economy, according to the latest data provided by the Republic's Statistical Affairs Authority, this should be changed to 40%, because this is also a requirement in the resolution of the 11th Congress of the Union of Serbia. I personally trust this independent union alliance. It's a union that has the highest number of employees. Certainly, he cares most about the position of workers when we talk about unions. In Article 66, which is changing, I would also suggest adding another position, which would read: "The employer is obliged to pay the employee the difference between the minimum earnings he has received and the profits he would make under the collective contract. "I think these solutions would be a significant improvement in this whole text of the proposed law. Also, when we talk about minimum earnings, we need to point out a very significant fact here. There was also talk of a significant improvement in the area of the common social policy, especially in the area of social security, if we are talking about minimum income. If the aggregate social contribution rate were 19%, and it should be approximately 15-20%, the provisions of the Minimum Profit Act would be inapplicable because for the seventh and eighth groups of the required expertise, tax and gross earnings would be higher than gross earnings themselves. In this situation, when receiving minimum earnings, persons would have to pay certain amounts in order to settle taxes and contributions. We'll talk more about this anyway in the next legal package. In any case, the basics that are given, when we talk about the Employment Act, about pension insurance, about health insurance, are significantly high, so rarely anyone will be able to apply them. So no matter how much we reduce the rate of contributions, it will be significant impositions. In the end, the Socialist Party of Serbia believes that the proposal has a lot of inadequacy and we certainly will not accept such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4646	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4647	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the Government, I will say just a few words about the article of the 34th Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Law. Namely, what's this about? We can, according to the information we hear here in the Assembly, expect an accelerated ownership transformation very quickly. So we can expect new strategic partners, new employers, to come that will regulate businesses on economic principles, which is quite understandable. Who's gonna get hit by a worker? First of all, the ones who won't be able to fit into the new technology. So, there will be the application of new technology, which is normal, and according to these workers, the employer will probably not be able to fulfil any obligation, whether it overqualified them, whether it hires them with another employer, whether it overqualified them and employs them with it, but it will become a situation to establish a technological surplus and, practically, leave the company. I've been working for over 38 years in the economy and I can say that Serbia can be proud of the masters we have in businesses and engineers. I'm not talking about economists, they sum up jobs that end up in businesses. I say, if someone's face isn't nice, the mirror isn't wrong. So that's all that's going on, that comes from me, that structure of workers. The severance now offered by some five earners maximum, I think it's too small. I'm afraid we don't put these people in a position of social status, as they have so far made a major contribution to the development of these companies. The truth is, our technology is out of date. That's why we have reason to say that there were sanctions, wars, etc. But those people in the company are the least guilty. I think with their severance, they should sort out, in a way, their own employment, either at another employer's private, or they should open a kiosk shop, some kind of shop, or some kind of shop, where they could work with these funds. I'm not making a comparison now, whether it's less than the previous 12 net profits or these six, or five gross ones, but I'm convinced they won't be able to solve the problem with this. Besides, when they're still waiting for the Employment Act, where after 25 years of work, they'll get some receipts just 24 months. So there's only 13 years of unregulated internship left. I think we should think this through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4648	The word is by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4649	The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act will enter into force on 1 June of this year, provided that MPs accept the proposal offered by the Government after the debate. The government's representative at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been appointed Dragan Milovanovic, Minister for Labour and Employment. I really couldn't believe that the first law that explained Minister Milovanovic was such a law, and I listened to Mr Milovanovic in the pre-election campaign, which often spoke of the rights of workers, about an unfortunate and evil state that chokes, also denied that it was time for another political force to come that would allow workers to invest through work in their businesses, get a fair fee and have certain rights. At the time, however, Dragan Milovanovic was president of the Union of Free and Independent Unions, today he is a minister, and probably the official "aud" or "mercedes" has influenced some opinions in the meantime. Serbian radicals have sent a number of amendments to the bill, wanting to correct the bill. I guess that way they'll find out what those people who voted for the Serbian Radical Party are thinking, because from the ruling majority's representatives they won't hear -- they're usually not in the O.R., and now it's a dubious quorum, because there are at least 40 radical cards and other MPs of opposition parties -- and when they are there, they often don't know which legal project is being discussed. They will wait for the government's proposal to be confirmed by the vote. The government tells MPs that the fiscal system in the Republic of Serbia is being laid on new grounds, starting with the fiscal system set out in European legislation and that compliance with EU legislation has been carried out. Serbian radicals do not feel that approach to Europe, but I fear that your approach to Europe does not come to Serbia. European prices and European taxes are introduced, and profits are still ours, Serbian earnings. You can't do everything overnight, you have to step by step, you say. Why the first prices and taxes. Go the other way, use those six billion dollars of foreign aid you got, recover the economy, increase profits and standards, and then start with prices and taxes. This way, you will have to charge taxes with automatic rifles and hackers, just as you recently set out on Serbian Radical Party MPs. The introduction of gross principles into the profit system eliminates the grey economy at the expense of earnings, since all receipts such as regress, a warm meal, overtime, various types of fees, etc., which were most often the subject of tax and contribution avoidance, are contained in the new concept of profit, you also say. And you continue, by establishing the obligation to pay off earnings in money, the second widespread form of the grey economy in the area of earnings is eliminated, given that there is no longer a possible payment of profits in goods, bonuses, etc. It's possible to eliminate the gray economy, but it's likely to eliminate the possibility of payout, any profits. How, for example, in the textile industry, say in "Nitex", they will pay the profits in money, if they previously pay all the taxes on earnings, on all receipts and wages, and a warm meal, and regress, possible overtime, night work, wages on the total profit fund, salaries taxes that are mostly increased, electricity bills that have been collected, bills for phones whose impulses have been collected, salaries to suppliers for the raw materials delivered, and cannot charge the products delivered. So far, they've been receiving something, a little bit of goods, and a little bit of money, and it wasn't God-knows-what, but it kind of died. It's going to get worse now. I'm not saying that we won't have to go through a fiscal system like this, but why don't you leave a longer transition period, why start from June 1st. Anything is possible in theory, but in practice it's a little harder. You know how it goes when Ciga taught the horse not to eat, for 20 days the horse kept learning, and just when the horse learned not to eat, he died. I'm afraid this is what learning and economics are gonna make you do. I call on the ministers of this government to be patient, to leave a longer period of time, because the economy will not endure this shock therapy, and we must go into reforms, but gradually. What's worth is that instead of guaranteed net earnings, you determine the right to a minimum profit, which you say provides a minimum of the material and social security of the employee, when many will not be able to pay it. However, you may also be able to pay off those who stay at work, because it's being prepared, it's not a secret, it's often said, and the layoff of workers. For the first time, it will happen that workers are fired and with over 30 years of employment. So these are the people who have a minimum age of 52. You also say that in the law on employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons that we will later consider, because this package of laws has been offered. I don't know what to tell you, I think this proposal gets a gray mask unlike that light mask we saw last night, and as long as you're thinking like this, I have to say DOS is really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4650	The word has Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4651	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, listening to opposition representatives, it seems to me like we've lived in paradise so far. It's as if the workers of this country lived in one prosperity, so now this government wants to take away everything they had and what they didn't even have. You obviously forget that until DOS came to power, the average salary in this country was 70 German marks and that it was not paid regularly, that it was 6, 7, 8, or more months late. When DOS came to power, that salary was increased by almost 100% and now it's about 140 marks. That's what you forget. Normally, as an opposition, you're trying to show yourself in one light how wonderful you are, how honest you are, how you are, like, foster workers' rights in this country. Where you've been, my dear gentlemen, over the past 10 years, how come you didn't care when the workers in this country received one mark as a salary? Where were you gentlemen from the Radical Party, where were you gentlemen from the Socialist Party? Not DOS, my dear gentlemen, has brought Serbia's economy into this position, but you. You're talking about big systems, and these big systems are ruined, destroyed, and workers are brought to the beggar stick. Do you, dear gentlemen, know how workers have lived in the past 10 years under your rule, do you know how many workers died because they didn't receive salaries, have you fellow Socialists ever gone to factories and watched tables with dead workers who died because they didn't even have that warm meal you're now inviting to? You didn't come, then you went somewhere else. You're talking to me about some morale, you who stole even the solidarity logs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4652	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4653	And if that's the case, I'll tell you the argument, gentlemen dear. Based on the ministry's decision to work on 1200/99 since 1606/1999, two million dinars were transferred from solidarity funds to a jury account of the SPS. On November 17th,1999, solidarity funds were transferred to the SPS, two million again. Then, on 21st06.1999, five million, then 9,01.2001, 2,631,343, 15 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4654	Please hold on to the subject for the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4655	A total of 11,631.000,00 was transferred to the SPS. So much for morale and concern for workers, my dear gentlemen. As for the gentlemen of the Serbian Radical Party, you must know that your deputy minister in the past meeting, Mr Zoran Subotic, you call him "Zunzara", whether or not it was, costing this ministry, doing a campaign by the Serbian Radical Party around Montenegro, a total of 314.153 dinars. Not to mention the exact bills, but all the accounts there are. So much for the morals you're talking about and the care for work, and the workers won't stay unsettled in this country shows an example of the flag. This government takes care of the workers and will take care of the workers. That's for sure. The referendum, which was held today in the flag, gives support to this government, because out of 6,500 workers, only 198 were against the government's proposal, and then you can see how much trust there is to the government. This people realized that what you are offering is misery, misery, poverty, poverty, and that this government is offering one perspective. You offer my dear gentlemen, to receive warm meals here, regresses. We offer to receive wages in this country, we offer to work in this country, and that is the difference between what you offer and what we as this government realize. That's what you see in action. What particularly affects you is what this bill...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4656	Mr. Milovanovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4657	What really irritates you is that the gray economy is going to end. What you've done so far, what you've done in a variety of ways, you've been working on the machinations, now this legal solution is being abolished. No more stuttering through the payoffs, by paying off the rice, as someone said. This time it has to be paid only in money and that's the essence of it all. No more robbery, dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4658	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic, then the replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4659	It's very nice when the President of the Union of Independence speaks of morality as a member of the DOS government. That means he was morally the president of the Union of Independence and the same covert DOS's all the time. So much for his morale. Perhaps it would be better if the President of the Union of Independence, otherwise DOS Minister, told us how he spent time with IMT workers five or six days ago, because they spoke to him about morality and his morality when, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, their fellow worker, the President of the Union of Independence, suggested that you be so burdened by these same workers. It's a morale story, and I'll read again a section of the City Committee of Unions letter that says, "So tell the Minister for Labour and Employment, who has accepted that such laws offer as a good solution to adoption without a social programme, to step down from the ministerial post in time and to rejuvenate the humiliating laws intended for the working class." It's a story of morality, it's a story of a minister who, introducing taxes and contributing to a warm meal, on a stamp, on a regression, on a field supplement, don't forget to cut the severance payment three times. That's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4660	Replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4661	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, mildly favoured Serbian workers when they have such a minister as Dragan Milovanovic, who found the grey economy in warm meals and in pig's halves. There is a grey economy, not among these criminals who have monopolised oil, cigarettes, near this Djindjic Be-be or Pavic Obradovic, who is head of cigarettes in Serbia and the like. There, the ministers were supposed to be looking for a gray economy, not a pig's pole, not a warm meal. Maybe the average salary under the last name was 70 marks, but twice as many goods could be bought for these 70 marks than for 140 now, not counting on electricity, utility, milk, bread and the like. This minister, Dragan Milovanovic, asked around the Serbian government, is the only one they call Zunzara. They say they have not heard of anyone else but of Dragan Milovanovic. He says it's Zunzara, because it's the only way he makes noises like a junzzar and flies to those things that zuzars usually fly to. In 1993, when salaries were two marks and pensions were one mark, the Serbian Radical Party shot down the Socialist government here, and one of the top officials of the Socialist Party of Serbia was Nebojsa Covic. There is evidence for him that he was recalibrating Jezda, Dafina and others, and now you're holding Jezda in prison so he can't publicly tell him what he was doing to Nebojsa Covic and others similar to Nebojsa Covic. At the end of the 1980s, in the last communist government that was extremely incompetent in the economic field, the vice president was Dusan Mihajlovic. From 1994 to 1998, New Democracy was in the Serbian government, which fell into large debts based on regular pensions, farm pensions and child benefits. We were trying to solve this new democracy in the Serbian government and the war prevented us from solving it thoroughly. If there hadn't been so much work on rebuilding and building the country, I would have been paid back the social benefits. At least that's for sure. Now such a man who was a union leader and became a minister and suddenly turned against the workers, and bussed to represent their rights and interests, suggests what the previous government could never dream of introducing. The previous government couldn't even dream of abolishing hot meals and sins as an untaxable part of the profit. The previous government couldn't even dream of abolishing payment, partly in nature if the company couldn't pay in cash, and that was introduced as a practice at the union's request earlier. Workers' unions were looking for pig's halves, flour, sugar, oil. Workers' unions sought a warm meal, labour unions sought a regress that would not be taxed and no contributions would be paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4662	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4663	I'm done. They were all looking for working unions. The government gave in to their demands, it made it possible and now it came to the minister of a union leader, Dragan Milovanovic called Zunzara, and now he's abolishing it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4664	Mr Cedomir Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4665	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we are not taking away representatives of today's opposition, this is the right to perform in which they represent themselves as consistent protectors not only of national interest, but also in a concrete sense of working interests. It's just, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you're missing arguments that you can mate with what the minister just said about this pay phone. Whatever it may be for you, you are required to say who paid 11 million dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget in 1999 and 2000 at the expense of the SPS, or 300,000 at the expense of the SRS. Great rights existed in our society, in each segment, guaranteed by the Constitution, only those rights were not applied, except in situations where they were exploited by those who were in power. There were no late salaries in the government of the Republic of Serbia. No apartments were missing for ministers, vice-presidents, or presidents of the Republic Government. You haven't been treated for health insurance as citizens of this society. I am. Mr. Seselj, at any moment we can exchange our medical records, but not at the assembly pay phone. Here, answer who paid 300,000 from the Serbian budget for the SRS that you didn't find any other bills to settle it. There's no end to hypocrisy, it's endless, but the public's attitude towards you does not depend on your relationship to facts. Citizens are aware of what is happening at this time and what is said in parliament. You're not people who have the moral right to criticize us for what we're trying to do to resolve the consequences of a ten-year, terrible regime rule that you've done. It was influenced by a variety of circumstances, but you didn't share the fate of this people. On the contrary, you took advantage of his accident and deny it if you can or can shut up and let us do our job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4666	Replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4667	I understand that Mr. Jovanovic is in a euphoric mood. A man who's euphoric doesn't think about what he's saying. First, Cedomir Jovanovic invents 300,000. That's just a lie. If it's spent so much in some ministry on travel expenses, it's for gas and other travel expenses. But to correct Cedomir Jovanovic, the Ministry of Culture paid the SRS millions and 100,000 dinars, but bought books. Oh, it is. They bought books. The books of some Serb dead giants, as well as some living, potential giants, and you see which ones. Furthermore, the jeep was assigned to the SRS because it was blinded and because it threatened the party's president. And where did you get the blinded Mercedes and the cars brand "audi". The jeep was from war prey, and your Mercedeses were blinded, and they were driving stamps of audiences, and Djindjic's cabinet in the Serbian government was blinded, it was from money from the budget. You keep mentioning some apartments here. What are you making up? What are you talking about? No apartment has been obtained against the law. Here, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic received an apartment at the JUMBES Centre under the law. Who in that same YU BIZNIS centre gave the apartment to Aleksandr Stefanovic, adviser to Vladan Batic. He didn't have anything to bite him for. First, he tried to steal two apartments from the Federal Assembly for one of those apartments, he also knows Mr. Martian, who personally kicked him out of that apartment, and now Aleksandar Stefanovic has almost 120 squares in the JUMBES Centre, and for his mother-in-law he found 35 additional squares. Where did that come from? Show me. This is where housing was legally available, and let's see where this came from, how, why, where, what happened. The fact that you don't have any arguments against the SRS hurts. That's why Marko Krajisnik is completely innocent, completely innocent, sentenced to 10 days and found in Padinska Skela. That's it. What you don't know is how to handle us. This Cedomir Jovanovic, who didn't know how to finish high school, repeater, third grader, fell, fourth with enough success, and you know how the fourth grade weighs to get rid of such bad students as soon as possible, and he is now chairing the DOS parliamentary group here. He is now the head of the parliamentary group, one regular professor, such as Mr. Velimir Simonovic, or others, who are still intellectuals a couple of excellencies. I hope he doesn't mind. So, one repeater, the last student in the class, head of the parliamentary group of once-reputable, regular professors, who in science means one big, prominent name anyway. That's what you DOSs are doing upside down. Instead of fixing them, you twist them to the bottom of their heads. Instead of treating the economy, you're ruining it. Instead of solving social problems, you make life impossible for socially endangered citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4668	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act, which the Government has submitted to the National Assembly. The first conclusion of this bill is that the fiscal system in Serbia is being laid on new grounds, starting with the fiscal system set out in European legislation. In addition, the law defines earnings by gross principle and ultimately concludes that compliance with European Union legislation has been carried out. You fully logically refer to Europe, you here in Serbia, workers in Serbia, and bosses and mentors in Europe. European laws that have never lived, and probably will not, in Serbia, and unfortunately already have, European taxes, and workers' salaries remain beyond the reach of so much praised Europe. If Europe, which you swear allegiance to, gave those promised $6 billion, the effect of the new bill would be complete. The deception of Serbian citizens continues. The state is more than alarming. The people live in never more difficult conditions of economic crisis and social misery. Many businesses in Serbia do not have the essential conditions for survival and even for minimal production. The workers are on strike, asking for someone to speak to them. They expect something to change for the better, but there is no change and there is no for workers and members of their families a more peaceful dream. Incapacitated DOS authorities and in this area bring chaos and incompetence. In an unencumberable desire to get as many DOS personnel as possible to some of the company's functions, funds are not selected, and the most capable personnel are being chased to be replaced by grammistical, greedy and unprofessional DOS personnel. In vain of the laws, in vain precision, in vain detailing the obligation to pay wages, regresses, transportation fees, when companies will not produce and will have nothing to pay for the state and their workers. Chancellor Zoran Djindjic's government has no chance of surviving on Serbia's political scene for several reasons. The main reason the government will never have a foothold in the Serbian people is that it is not patriotic and there is nothing in common with Serbian national interest. It is also proof of such a claim that Minister Djelic is bringing in European laws, not knowing the spirit of the Serbian people or the overall state of affairs in the Serbian economy. In vain, an empty theory, pre-set on weak postulates, condemned to failure, and companies, enterprises in Serbia, condemned to tarnishing, grumbling and to the impenetrable maze exiting the crisis, which, unfortunately, is becoming deeper and deeper. There is a great concern for Serbian citizens, who are watching the Serbian parliament's meetings with great attention. They wonder, did we vote for this? We voted for change, change and take place, but changes are worse. In vain, the Labour Relations Act, in vain all other laws, DOS cannot function, and the bosses and mentors from abroad are hard hearts, insensitive, and money is drawn out of the fungi. The only solution for Serbia is the new elections and the departure of DOS from Serbia's political scene. DOS reminds me more and more of a well frog, which suddenly found itself in front of the ocean, so he looks confusedly and doesn't know where he's going, and he doesn't know what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4670	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by moving to the 12th item of the agenda, we have discussed a set of social laws, a law in the field of labour relations, in which the motioner has not dared to deliver new texts of the law, as was the case with these fiscal laws, but has already provided us with proposals for amendments and additions to existing laws, arguing in the light of the law that compliance with EU legislation has been carried out. The government's representative at this session, the government's representative on this agenda, is a union minister, who was used by politicians, a minister who had a dirty and vile task, while he was a unionist -- to deal with political struggle, and to represent himself as a worker representative, as a man who cares about their relationship with the employer and their social status. The election is being held, the government is being established, and then we find out that one union representative is becoming a minister. Specify a country in the world where a union representative deals with politics and represents the interests of a political option. The union, represented by the minister, who is proposing this law, was blackmailed by flag workers on Kragujevac television yesterday, through his representatives. The messages sent to the workers were simple - you interrupt the government in efforts to solve the problem of the car factory, and you delay for several months a strategic partner, with which the government is about to enter into relations that will help the car factory. Of course, on Friday when I went to Kragujevac, a tape of highways on the way out of Batocina, according to the old good communist custom, was closed for traffic. It was waiting for Mr. Ministers from Belgrade to pass. I've got proof of that. I've talked to the cops. And now, my dear minister, you are very brave to sit with these MPs of DOS. Just so you know, when they take advantage of you and drain you, then the workers won't take you back, and then there won't be room for you in the political parties, and I think it's much better that you've done the job of an honorary union official, than the masks have fallen and that one unionman has become a minister for a short while and a minister who won't be asked for anything, who can't decide anything. And how can he decide what's good about this law, except for the criticism at the expense of the previous government, Mr. Minister, and what did you say well in this bill? Did you say about 15 days ago on TV that someone who can't pay their profits, goes bankrupt, and the state will take care of the workers? Does this law suggest the bankruptcy of many companies? Is there one solution that we can read here that we can't find in parallel anywhere that says that anyone who doesn't pay his salary will be banned from working? Is that what it says, Mr. Minister, that you are actually preparing Serbia slowly for what you call a painful solution, and that is the end of work in many large enterprises? They were working until DOS came to power. Data is something you can't avoid. Last year, in the first quarter, the car factory produced 3,500 cars this year, 300, and sold 480, in the second quarter it cannot produce 300. That's the data. Everything else is stories. And we can politically pursue ourselves here, we can charge ourselves with everything and everything. The car factory in Kragujevac does not manufacture cars. Maybe he's growing chickens, maybe he's making eggs for the market, but he doesn't make cars. That's what the data tells us about the number of cars coming off the tape. You see, you're telling us, Mr. Minister, that a lot of workers, at 10, 20 and 30, will be out of work. This is not a temporary job-free stay, regulated by the Constitution and said to be the employer's duty to provide compensation and social status, social protection for people who are temporarily out of work. This is a permanent job-free stay. Those who run out of work will never be able to get a job again, there will be no more work. Industrial production recorded a decline of almost 12% compared to the first quarter of last year. That's the data. What happens to people who, after so many years of internships, lose their jobs, you cut their severances. You wrap it up for gross earnings, but when you turn gross into net, you take one profit, one monthly profit, everyone who stays out of work. You pay them less than the time before this law. That's the data and that's the math. If it suits you, I don't know. Is he gonna answer to the workers, and I don't know that. Will it be painful? It'll be painful, but don't count on it to be painful just for the workers. I'm sure it'll be painful for the government, too. Half of the government would not be picked up if it ran to Kragujevac at night to talk to union representatives, if it wasn't painful for the government as well. And while we're talking about it -- so is there a better place than to be here, from this pay phone, you're saying that workers who are looking for work and wages are preventing a strategic partner, who is about to get in, so if there's anything more beautiful than telling us from this pay phone -- the car factory is a solution problem, the strategic partner is called that and so the car production begins. He's gone, he's in his promises, maybe he comes with those six billion, travels slowly, his burden is billions of dollars, he's carrying in his pockets, so one day, he's gonna make our minister happy. Look at how unsolicited the law was. Article 19 reads (one part of it): "This law is published in the Official Messenger, enters into force on 1 June 2001 and the provisions of Article 64. The law will be applied after the first information has been published." This is a law that has 19 members, and you say, "Article 64 provisions. The law will apply... "I guess you're thinking about that law that has more than 64 members and that 64th member you've been entering with changes and additions. That's no longer 64 members. It's Article 3, I think, of this law. He can be valid from July 1st. Article 3 of this law, not a member of a 64th law that you didn't even mention, or named what it was already called. That's your expertise. If you said you didn't have time, you'd still believe that you've been doing brand-new laws. You just sat down and calculated where else you could get something. To stop the gray economy, that there were no more halflings, that there was no more sikdinal struggle, and what the union struggle was at the time when you were a real unionist, until you started to think about how to finish your studies of engineering in the 50th year of life. It was a struggle to ensure that people survived, that the people survived. I'm sorry Minister Djelic isn't here. I want his daughter to get better as soon as possible. He touched me, but he couldn't cause tears to my eyes, because we had many children and were sick and bombed and killed, the planes flew out of France. Tell Minister Djelic, all the time and those of you who are operated (loud from the hall: like you)... warn him who wrinkles pigs and boars so he doesn't throw it at me while I'm on the phone. But to catch what you're going to hit the rams, you're not up for this pay phone. MPs should appear for this pay phone, not loudspeakers. The sixth row is not a place for a pay phone, it's here. You tell Mr. Djelic, I may be ashamed of myself, but those planes came from France from which Mr. Djelic came. Did that plane drop the bombs and kill little Milucci... What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? How old are you? Did that plane drop bombs and kill Milica Rakic or bring a minister to kill both factories and workers and the social security of citizens in Serbia, I don't care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4672	The People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski has the word, and let the People's Messenger Ljubvoje Slavkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4673	Mr. Minister, MPs, I'd like to ask you a few questions. First, what you get and what you lose. One small analysis, in my opinion, is lost - a hot meal, regression, overtime, compensation, etc. has been taxed. - one very, very important thing, Minister. He says in one article that whoever doesn't pay a personal contribution, etc. by companies work to be suspended from 30 to 90 days. Do you know that most of the agricultural goods in Vojvodina, many months have not been paid personal incomes. Many months no personal income has been paid in agricultural goods in Vojvodina. Does this mean that agricultural goods in Vojvodina will have to be stopped for 30, 50 or 70 days? Interrupted work in an Agrovita from Melenac, which has about 27,000 ha of the country, not to work, whether it's April, August or December or December is bitter and great damage. Do you stop working on a mine where machines run, big machines, where big wells are located, where there is no stalemate for a new year, no holiday. Whether to break up in Bolech etc. I'm looking for an answer to these questions, because at this point, I may not have understood the article (a voice from the O.R.: we don't understand you). One question, what about companies that have earned money from public companies, such as NIS, EPS and other strong companies, and cannot charge. They've made 30, 40 million dinars, and they can't charge that money, because they're either public enterprises at a loss, or they're ruled by people who are from JUL, and they don't give money to other companies and companies. What about those money that's being processed in courts? There are companies that need to get more money and one longer period they can't get. We have an example of Euromont from Belgrade, where a hostappler, Milezdovic, took a lot of money from the company. Now they can't be charged, allegedly DOS leaders are out of it, in the process. I'm telling you all this because probably in this procedure, you didn't predict it, by the courts, there's a lot of money in public enterprises for some companies that can't be charged. And they paid for it, for example. February personal income, so does that mean that these companies, if they can't pay their personal income, and they have earned money, will be suspended 30, 90 or how many days. I'm talking about courts, there are various ways and different relationships, where the current procedures that are being followed by DOS leaders, as ordered by them. One question is very important and important, and will you explain to me whether all these laws we've passed, which are likely to bring precedence to one law on ownership transformation? Is in this matter the logical order of things and that went, so many companies and by the Taxation Act and by this law that you propose will remain closed. So he'll go under bankruptcy and liquidation. Whether these companies will be sold by emergency procedure, someone to appear as the guardian angel and these companies to buy or not. I remind you again, there are large systems, such as NIS, EPS, etc. who are in debt to many companies, and these companies can't charge. Do these companies fall under the influence of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4674	The word has a minister, Mr Dragan Milovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4675	I really don't know, you keep mentioning this part about paying off just in cash. Do you really expect workers to work in the country for promises? Are they slaves? What you're offering is that workers come to work, work and that's why they don't get paid, and that the directors will promise them that they'll get there in a period of time, so maybe they'll be paid in kind, dear gentlemen, those times have passed when it was paid in such a way. This law is in the interests of workers, and workers will thus be absolutely protected. Do you think they don't know how to shop? Anyone who gets the money can buy. Why does someone have to tell him and give him what he's going to eat that moon and what he's going to wear that moon for? As far as this provision is concerned, that companies will be closed, if they don't pay their wages, you obviously didn't read well. Here it writes very simple and very simple - if the inspector in the control procedure finds that the employer has not paid the profits, i.e. minimum earnings, as well as if he has paid the profits contrary to the provisions of Article 64(2) of this Act, and has made the funds for payment in the account, he will be prohibited from carrying out his duties, the employer. So don't say it by heart, but read what it says, and say it with argument (from the hall: There is no article 64, Minister. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4676	Since we have five minutes left until the end, does MP Ljuboje Slavkovic want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4677	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, when we went to school, learning the history of the last 60 years, there was one sentence - before the war we had nothing, the Germans came and destroyed everything. It's kind of like a story to me, gentlemen, that for the last 10 years, not to say from the 8th session, so to this day, she's been burning and burning this country, doing what she wanted, they could have passed the laws they wanted, and in the end we've come in the last half of the year, or 5 months, and destroyed everything they've created. They created misery, poverty, failed economy, wars, misery, isolation from the world and exclusion from the world community. As a businessman who spent 22 years in the economy, I will talk about the practical aspects of applying this law. Article 1, which is so attacked by the opposition, provides for a minimum that the employer, although I would not use that term, because we do not yet, at least as far as the social sector, the real employer, is obliged to pay for some minimum. From past practice, I can tell you that all the companies that had money had no problems and probably not in the future will have any problem with the application of this member of the law. And those who have had it will have problems now, so workers will likely, by means of lawsuits, as they have so far been, charge this to their legal right. I'd like to ask you not to use the term severance. This isn't severance. The severance is the right that a pensioner, who retires, uses because people who listen, who aren't represented, can think that it's some other stuff. Secondly, gentlemen of the former government, I must remind you that you have abolished the right for us in the economy to pay workers through nature, or goods. Or whoever did it had to pay the taxes like he was paying cash. Therefore, I assure you that in the economy of this kind of neutral form of payout, there is no more. Third, Article 6 is extremely well-formed. What did article 6 mean so far in practice? The legislator provided for the employer's obligation to pay guaranteed earnings, i.e. if he could not pay normal salaries, he had to pay workers the difference between the minimum labour price and the guaranteed earnings. The difference was not small, and all the companies that have been unable to achieve this right of workers in the past few years have been in a situation where hundreds of workers are sued for judicial disputes, so now we have a situation that the value of the disputes they have is far greater than the value of the assets that companies have. Such companies simply cannot enter the process of ownership transformation, or privatisation. Therefore, I believe that the new provision of article 6 is extremely good and will likely enable people who work in the economy to regulate things more effectively and in a better way. As for the application of the provisions of Article 7, it seems to me that so far has been a priority compared to all payments, payment of guaranteed earnings, minimum earnings. That's not going to be the treatment right now. I think the government will have to consider some modes. In the end, what I find not good remains the obligation of the employer to hire two workers in his company. I don't think it's good for a new process, which we'd like to do, to liberalize the conditions of the adjustment as much as possible, to open up as many private businesses as possible and create a different environment. I don't think this member's provision is going to be in the typhoid. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-23-0.u4678	Thank you. This concludes today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
