ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6935	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a law before you on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I would just like to say one little review at yesterday's session, afternoon -- I think everyone in this room understood and realized that such times should remain behind, but also behind Serbian citizens. Perhaps this very law that lies before you points to the path that should go, which is the path that gives citizens peace and stability, conditions for the development of economy and standards. I can't help but tell you that this is essentially the first comprehensive law in front of the MPs of the Republic of Serbia in this session. Since January of the month, we have so far had exclusively changes and additions or the abolition of individual members of existing legal projects. This is essentially the first, unique, comprehensive project that lies ahead of you, in front of the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this session. Since I have pointed out in my introduction that we should stop coming back ten years ago, I am not going ten years back, but I can't help but go back two years, just a short, backwards, to point out for some others, that there's even been a way to find this draft law on small and medium-sized enterprises in front of you. In fact, in the first days of aggression on this country and the destruction of certain businesses, the fact is that a significant number of workers were left without material and social security, both they and their families. The government of the Republic of Serbia has tasked me, as a resolute minister, to consider the possibility of a far better connection between science and economy, to simply make it possible for the Ministry of Science and Technology to make domestic potentials to be maximum. That on the basis of domestic scientific potential and domestic resources (and the highest quality domestic resource is a working man and his knowledge, as well as domestic resources in a material sense) products and processes that would go towards the substitution of import components, import reromation and, of course, import finished products. In this regard, several teams worked in several ministries, so it was essentially brought in early May by the government of the Republic of Serbia's economic-social programme, which addressed the problem of hiring workers from war-torn businesses. I want to say that NATO's aggression has left around 80,000 workers out of work, whose jobs are directly affected. It is estimated that around 250,000 workers are in reproval, take just an example of the flag, and also run out of work even though their jobs have not been destroyed, but they have been prevented from using their products for further factory work. In that sense, we have defined in these measures the short-term measures, how we have solved the current problem, and the long-term measures that went primarily towards setting up small and medium-sized enterprises, to consider the possibility of returning to agricultural property, etc. Special activity was carried out by the Ministry of Science and Technology, around the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I really think it's too much to talk about small and medium-sized enterprises today, and everyone here in this room and in this country understands that these are flexible production programs, that this is the perspective of this country's development. There are a number of positive examples in other countries of Europe, so it can be shown how flexible small and medium-sized enterprises are, adaptable to market requirements, ready to change production programmes very quickly, which has affected the development of these countries. In particular, an example of Italy, where 70% of workers are employed in small and medium-sized enterprises, where 50% of the financial capital is turned also in small and medium-sized enterprises. Simply, small and medium-sized enterprises are much more efficient, far easier to manage, more adaptable to market requirements and more marketingly ready to take place on the international market. Finally, the great advantage of small and medium-sized enterprises is to improve the work of large systems, production systems or large public systems, because their presence in the reproving system, which is preceded by a large system, especially around large systems and the use of their products, is essentially much more driven by tromium and large systems. I just want to say that the result of this work at the Ministry of Science and Technology, along with the great activities of the Institute for Comparative Law, which was tasked with carrying out a comparative analysis of similar legal projects in a dozen European countries. Basically, it was a set of business programs for small and medium-sized enterprises, and this is just a second edition. Finally, the fifth book of these business programs was published. We have collected, analyzed, processed and verified 2,900 business programs that can be the basis for development of small and medium-sized enterprises. What's important to point out? It is important to point out that 54.3% of these programs essentially came from the institute and college. That's where we managed to break down the hard track between science and economy. This country has always invested a lot in science, but very little in the practical sense, in terms of production, has used that science it has. On the one hand, because of the scientists themselves who are inert, because they are satisfied with the results achieved in theoretical terms. On the other hand, because of the unpreparedness of the economy in its environment, the country is seeking concrete practical problems and a much greater willingness to buy such finished products and technology lines abroad. In fact, five editions of a book with 2,900 business programmes that have been proven and verified to be market-oriented, to guarantee workers social and material security, to guarantee the return of invested capital, programmes that are known to require energy, which they have repromated, how much they employ workers, how much investment is needed in these programmes and, essentially, the huge capital that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, but is of great value that 54.3% of these programmes came from institutes and colleges. In particular, 47 institutes and 24 Serbian universities contributed significantly. I must stress the great commitment of the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, and in particular the fact that the very two houses, especially the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce, helped to pass with the Small and Medium Enterprises Bill draft, which is in front of you in the final version, through all regional chambers of commerce and to hear the voice, that already existing small businessmen (although they are large businessmen, you will see later why), and the director of social and state enterprises that have excess employees and which it is clear that in this technological process a number of workers must remain unemployed and that they should be supported to go on their own, to implement, in this way - developing, with the support of the state, certain small and medium-sized enterprises. Perhaps it should only be pointed out that the revitalisation of industrial capacities has implemented 317 programmes in 97 companies and that it employs 21,900 workers in the second half of 1999. It should be pointed out that 137 new programmes have been set up in broken companies, where over two billion dinars have been invested and 10,931 workers are employed in them. When an expansion of production, self-employment and the takeover of workers is collected, one huge result has been achieved, that nearly 80,000 workers in the second half of 1999 and the first half of 2000 received their employment. A huge part of them, certainly some mistakes, received material and social security, formed collectives that do well, and, most importantly for this country, were produced either by the substitution of import repromation or by finished import products for which foreign exchange components from foreign reserves were spent. What is very important is that one part of these programmes had already been placed on the international market. In particular, the importance of developing small and medium-sized enterprises in the country should be highlighted. It's about this -- it's clear to anyone who analyzed the country's situation, we were just talking about a demographic problem, about the population -- our villages are dying to a significant extent. They die because they were mostly focused on life directly on primary agricultural production. The primary agricultural production has a very slow turnover of capital and no village, no rural household can live exclusively on primary agricultural production, especially since when it comes to primary agricultural production, in addition to the substitution of the country which has so far been, and clearly it will no longer be, there was also a certain price control that did not define the real value of the finished product in agricultural families. Due to essential things, the task of young people, especially women, to have the motive to stay alive and work in the country, is extremely important to develop small and medium-sized enterprises in the rural area. Especially if programmes are taken today in Europe, such as healthy food production, rural tourism, food industry, etc. As a result, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises has been particularly motivated and needs to be even more motivated in the country, as it creates a chance to employ all the structures of the population, especially young and women. For this reason, because of a great experience in the work on the economic and social programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in its realisation, at the employment of 80,000 workers, mainly in small and medium-sized enterprises, and because of the fact that there was an extraordinary comparative analysis, an analysis of Europeanisation in this area, and especially because of the fact that the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act passed broad public consultations in regional chambers, I think there is no city, from Somboro, Kraljevci, Zaječar, Bora, in which there were no meetings of regional chambers of business and where no suggestions were heard about this law, how businessmen who invested their capital and businesses managed state or social enterprises, I decided to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a law on the support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. What are the basic areas of this law? Some of them are warning me just reminding me that, as a legislator, I have the right to expose myself three times in 20 minutes and please don't interrupt me in that sense. I see some have been disappointed. First, you have a classification in the legal project - small and medium-sized enterprises. So a classification is given that is fully suited to modern European trends, although I have heard a different opinion on one parent board. Now I've got paperwork in that direction, so we don't come here for a pay phone. So there was a classification of small and medium-sized enterprises and directly related to the company's income per employee, conditionally, a worker. Then, the core concept is the government's task of providing an annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, what is the essential idea of a law on support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises? Does this country have any unemployed? He's got them. Unemployment is increasing dramatically. In December and January alone, we had another 50,000 new unemployed. With these legal projects, which are the partial abolition of individual members, certain employers will certainly be motivated to continue the firing process. Does this country have qualified experts? There is. If there is a country in Europe that has respect for the knowledge of its average working man, it is Serbia, it is Yugoslavia. We have made a tremendous investment in our man's knowledge. Just take the results in our young people's high school or college competitions, regular wins, first, second or third places in world Olympics, mathematics, IT, physics, at the time of aggression and after aggression, not to speak earlier. So the fundamental approach is the following -- this country has a lot of unemployed people, it's known for which, it has an extremely educated average working man. It's the highest quality resource. It is the resource that many European countries do not have, because their level of education is far lower than education in this country. The average student knowledge is far less than the education of our average student or the average high-quality worker. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been tasked with caring for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in order to use its support, its designed policy, primarily through the annual support programme for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, to go with enough capital, less than in many other countries, to engage both unemployed, smart, experts with great knowledge, our workers, and to go towards the development of small and medium-sized enterprises that complete the economic concept, make up a substitution of imports, a chance for export placement and our products, and thus our knowledge. For the government to do so, the law proposed the establishment of an agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. There's the government's main attack in response to this law, an attack that is absolutely out of place. Otherwise, the agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises already exists in the government. I saw a card from a gentleman who works at that agency. So the agency already exists illegally. This is where the legal basis for the establishment of the agency is given. But it's not the agency that centralizes the country where it goes into decentralisation. The Agency is the one who has designed the centralisation of knowledge, in order to decentralise this knowledge in regional chambers of commerce, in the areas of this country, where knowledge would be made possible to anyone who wishes in this country anywhere, in any municipality to define to enter business, he himself or with his colleagues, in the development of a particular small or medium-sized enterprise. There is an agency that does not centralise, but does decentralisation of suggestions, knowledge in the field of professional regulation, legal regulation, offers free projects on behalf of this country, to help the unemployed to get on their feet and develop production programs that will be useful for employees in the company, guarantee material and social security. At the same time, it will welcome the state, because it will complete the production miles that this country lacks and for which the state provides a foreign exchange component or miles in the export placement of this country. In order for all of this to go, a loan fund and guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises of the Republic of Serbia are foreseen. What's this about? You are witnessing the bombing of foreign banks in Belgrade, and do you know the final result of the opening of these foreign banks and their exposures? Did one of the MPs go to some foreign bank, which is open here and say, "I want to take a business loan, develop a small company and support my medium-developed company for a certain period of time?" Do you know what the answer is? The answer is 2.5% monthly foreign exchange interest. So, 2.5% of the monthly interest on the foreign currency sign. Is it possible that anyone who is unemployed, who has knowledge, who himself, but also this country can help to activate their knowledge through the development of new production programs, which mean development of him and his family, the employment of new unemployed and the substitution of imports or the placement of the foreign market, can go into that story and should this country leave it at 2.5% of the monthly interest? That is why the loan and guarantee fund is foreseen here, to support and develop small and medium-sized enterprises of the Republic of Serbia. Why is it supposed to be? It is predicted that the government is facing the problem of unemployment, aware that it has very high quality personnel from different economic branches among the unemployed, and has a task and awareness, above all, of the importance of developing small and medium-sized enterprises on this market. It therefore forms its distribution agency, decentralised knowledge and provides support and provides free of charge the programmes that the Government has verified, because it knows that these are market-oriented programmes that essentially guarantee good to the state, not just individuals who are employed there. Then the government, through its loan and guarantee fund, gives in fact one stabilising and competitive factor in the money banking market, where it gives in cheap money, but for what purpose. For the purpose of which the Government has assessed through experts and scientists that business programmes are market-oriented. That's the thing about the fund and the fund essentially with loans and guarantees gives rise to those who start, gives delayed loans with delayed repayments, lower than the commercial banks do. And basically, in the whole of the solution (in the second instance, I will go further into these solutions) one policy has been designed to tell Serbian citizens -- through this law in the future, with great knowledge, with great expertise fully decentralised, will provide support at the level of the Republic to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a great opportunity for the unemployed, but it's a great chance for the state as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6936	Just to be clear, you have two times 30 minutes plus 10 minutes. You said three times 20 minutes. It's not three times 20 minutes, it's two times 30 minutes plus 10 minutes. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary group answering for a word? If not, the first to be registered for discussion is MP Branimir Trajkovic, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6937	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, members of the government, as a member of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, I participated in a debate on the proposal for a law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, submitted by Mr Branislav Ivkovic. In this debate, it is pointed out that the proposal for this law is not in line with the decentralisation of state administration and the market economy, not to define concrete solutions, the way to support and encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition to these conclusions, I'd give someone my vision of things. Article 2 of this Act is divided into small and medium-sized enterprises through the income of annual, property and number of employees, which I consider to be one variable size. I would like to advocate some definition that exists in the countries of the European Union. In doing so, we must not forget our own trades, as they are represented by the moss in the sector of healthy food production and small private farms. Article 4 states that the annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises contains developmental and priority types of work for which small and medium-sized enterprises are supported. I think this is completely wrong and that the market needs to determine priority jobs, and foreign investors themselves and concrete partners, producers. Article 6 provides for the establishment of an agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, as a special organisation. I agree there should be an agency with a particular ministry, with the government, but this bill does not provide that the agency should have at least 15 more regional agencies. This brings us to decentralisation and one better way to see the regional possibilities of small businesses. The agency would practically be just a data bank and a small business service. Article 9 states that funds for the establishment and operation of the Agency are provided in the Republic's budget. Then, the agency can also provide funds for operations from other sources, such as its own revenues, domestic and foreign loans, donations and the like. As our budget funds are very modest, it is certain that we should expect assistance from the European Union and countries such as Greece, Italy, Austria and Germany. It is significant to point out that in Italy 70% of businesses make up small and medium-sized enterprises, and for this reason I think these countries would certainly support such projects. That is why it is necessary to create an environment in Serbia so that these countries see seriousness in this project. In recent days, by adopting the 2001 budget and by setting tax laws, we have just created direct conditions for the entry of foreign capital. All that remains is the privatisation law, which I personally think will be adopted by all of us in this congregation. Then come the members from the 10th to 26th of this bill, describing the creation of the fund, as well as its role in supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. There's an inevitable board of directors, a board of directors, and I think it's a pretty big machine. We in this country have very bad experience with funds and you have to admit it yourself. We're witnessing that the money that was allocated to the funds didn't usually end up there for what it was meant for, and that's why we have the arrests of the directors of the individual funds. That is why I propose to create a network of banks that, together with regional agencies, would also be a guarantee and would lend certain programmes. It doesn't have to be just foreign banks, as some here point out, because our banks, like Delta Bank, Vojvodjanska Banka and all others, can co-operate with foreign banks. Foreign banks are only looking for good and corporate domestic banks, and no funds at all. They don't know the funds. This would directly monitor export-oriented programmes. I'd like to stay here for a while on a health food production program. It is known that forest fruits and strawberry fruits, organically clean, are very wanted on the European market. A racial district, and especially a sub-division area, is known as a source of healthy food. Investment in the production of healthy food would employ the entire population of the Brussels municipality and curb the white plague that has endangered the region, which relies on the northern part of Kosovo. In her election campaign, the DSS highlighted the strategic significance of the sub-region area. By staying in his villages, he would set himself up as a natural bed of Shipar expansion to the north. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I asked the Committee, and Mr Pavle Popovic was present, to arm the time when the government will come up with its decision to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as this bill is concerned, I'll vote against it. I am convinced that this bill is not good, because otherwise, Mr. Ivkovic would have proposed the law to the Serbian Parliament far away in 1997, when this version was also voted, or designed for the needs of the Montenegrin government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6938	Mr. Vice President Sabic reminded me in part, reminded me that I did not invite the committee's informers, do they want a word if there are? Here you go, Mr. Sekulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6939	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs discussed the bill on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, our conclusion is that: 1) this law is a direct interference in one substance currently in the process of government development, because we believe that the primary development of small and medium-sized enterprises depends on macroeconomic conditions of business in a particular society. Even though it can be said that these companies are more flexible, that they can adapt more easily to the conditions of business, it is also the fact that at certain times they are in need of support. However, this support cannot only mean the establishment of a particular agency to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. a fund that would stimulate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, as it is essentially proposed, but rather a more comprehensive set of economic policy measures, which would encourage the development of these enterprises, primarily through tax incentives, or other forms of stimulating their development. So, at this point, we have a program, as we have received information from the government, related to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Around the law itself - the law is affected by certain parts both by what is a republican normative, or by what is jurisdiction on the republican level, and by certain provisions, especially by funds, and by what is federal regulation. This bill proposed centralised management in support of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is already pointed out today that certain decentralisation needs to be carried out. There are experiences from other countries where, in addition to some central, agency or similar bodies that encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, individual regional representations are also designed to simply achieve closer communication between businesses and a possible agency that would deal with their development. Also, we have stated that this bill provides for only budget financing, especially as regards the fund, some other forms of funding, and as regards the agency's budgetary financing. The experience of countries with developed economy, particularly with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, for example Italy, which has over 4.5 million small and medium-sized enterprises, shows that the experience with the budget financing of agencies is not good, so they switched to own-income financing, i.e. on the basis of the sale of services to small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. to clients who are interested in this. Also, in the fund-related work, there is no well-developed work that would be a means of supporting these small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in addition to loans under favourable conditions, also provides opportunities for direct funding through participation in the share capital of a particular company, i.e. in the development of enterprises. For all of these reasons, this committee has concluded that this legislative proposal should not be supported, or that the Assembly should not adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6940	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is interesting to listen to the reasons for the proposal, which most do not want to accept, which also relate to non-compliance with federal legislation, for non-constitution, and it has passed over 30 amendments and the addition of laws in which we have pointed to non-compliance with federal legislation, with the Constitution, so no one remembers then from this conscience or with legal knowledge, to say - yes, you are right, we will return this law to the government because it is not right and because it introduces obligations to citizens who are not provided for by federal law, and the federal law is the only authority under the federal constitution to determine these obligations. I think the legislator is knocking on a tight door. It's the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not know whether it is for business support, whether it is to support the giants, whether it is to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, or whether it is to let them go to waste and disappear, but that those companies taken by Prime Minister Dragas's adviser, who can make money and put it in their pockets, that these companies are the first to go for sale, that those who will escape the country after the fall of power, and that we who remain in this country, remain to deal with the torments that will remain behind this government. Prime Minister Djindjic says the government will not think about the economy because it is not even formed to think about the economy, but to think about raising budgets and dividing it from its users. At the same time, the government is supporting some small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic received 30m dinars of support from the government of the Republic of Serbia and its Development Fund the other day. Now, I don't know if "Lutra" at the time of co-operation with the Socialists became a major enterprise, before Dusan Mihajlovic entered the government it wasn't even an enterprise. After that, on loans, and even on loans she took from the social enterprises that had failed, and returned them for five or six years, Lutra grew up in a company that stood in line with other enterprises, in the hallway, or the minister entered directly to the Director of the Development Fund, taking as much money as it needed to maintain his company. Then why should individual government members at the government's session seriously think about this problem, when they have their own businesses for which they only care to take them to the level, that these businesses do a good job, that these companies are using the current situation in the country, and after that -- after me, the flood. After this, let him do whatever he wants or who can. Besides, I can't see, Mr. President, in the material of the resignation of Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. She was on his side announced yesterday, unless she solves a major crime that happened in the country. I didn't do it in my ears to say that 15 would resign. Yeah, he did. He didn't hear a comment from the O.R. except you don't know. He says he's solved it, and when you suspect someone from the former government, he's already on life sentence. Now that the minister has solved some of the problems, it can be made public that he has solved and who is involved, because some people have appeared close to the environment of government members and even the Prime Minister himself. It's the government you're trying to provide support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. They don't do that. They don't think about it. They're digging into the final accounts, according to reports, they've paid some kind of inspection to send us some reports in which there's nothing, except that the minister did as she imposed his conscience and the law, in which there may be crime. This should be done by someone else, not by the National Assembly. And the companies that DOS took over under their control slowly tone, disappear. When workers are rebelled because they haven't produced anything for five months, then you threaten them with ministers or the Prime Minister himself that they'll be out of work or there's as much of that staff as you want on the desk as you want, so you can go ahead and rebel another day, if you dare. But if you rebel for five days, you will be declared people who have been unjustly absent from work for five days, and you will be fired. Well, that's how unions get into a situation that feels cheated or that they're lost, that they're crazy. Those who have urged them to strike for ten years and when it rains during the day, just because it rains, and immediately redeem themselves in the city's central squares, to block life, to paralyze Serbia, all of a sudden they don't let them strike, but they say -- if you strike, we have an unemployed bureau, which we really need in our factories, which is exactly what you want us to do. Well, that's not how you ask in small and medium-sized enterprises, or giants, that you kill clearly, how you ran into the gates of factory circles. As the justice minister automatically kidnapped Galenika to hand over Financer Milan Panic, Vuk Obradovic rebelled against it, so the draw-back came. You think that's where Vuk Obradovic pulled out the thick end, and I assure you that he is not and that one real heated debate about it will give an answer to the question of what's been going on in the last few days in the government of the Republic of Serbia, who's guilty of having to answer in one way, and who's to be blamed for why he should answer otherwise. We should really only have small and medium-sized enterprises in this country, but what about hundreds of thousands of workers in giants that the Serbian government has written off and no more messages. In addition to lies and fraud, deception, and new leaderships, completely incompetent, there are no more places for them in the economic, political, economic system, especially not in the budget. Where hundreds of millions of dinars have now been allocated to large businesses by the Serbian government for how many more last year, in order to produce them. They don't make it to these big companies anymore, but they're nowhere to be found. Prices get wilder, life gets more expensive. Everything that is produced and bought in this country is more expensive than what is imported. So now we boast, for God's sake, that the income from customs is higher than last year. Well, it is. But that's why our customs became a one-way street. The ramp only rises to enter goods that allow low customs to be cheaper than domestic goods. Now you're saying this law isn't technically done, so he's missing something. So he's missing something. Well, the government is preparing some kind of program. What kind of program does the government make? The government claims to be preparing new prisons that will be large enough to accommodate all members or supporters of the former regime, and at that part of the government's work will be completed. What about the rest of the pieces? Will those prisons make money for social funds, for pension funds? He won't. To create that, someone has to work. In order for someone to work, the state has to take care of him, not just spy on him and threaten him. That's what this bill is about. Unfortunately, you will never accept a debate about what awaits us in a year or two if you remain in power. You will, when you prepare the material, when you get to know it well, so when someone convinces you that it will hurt the opposition today, you want to hear about it at half the night and talk about it with the opposition. But that's where you find the tough nut. That's where you run into people who aren't criminals and you can't tell them they're criminals and we'll never let you do that. It's a criminal who gets sent to a judicial verdict or pays something or goes to some prison sentence. A criminal is not the one whom individuals, who have fallen from heaven into this congregation or from enemy countries or from republics who have been persuaded to secede, accuse him of being a criminal. They're not criminals. They're honest people. You know, in order to charge someone, you have to personally be clean about this thing. You know how to become a criminal and you know who makes him a criminal. So you have a bill of law that was submitted by one opposition group, all of which you all pleaded negatively. And I guess that also determines how you're going to vote. But you have to think it through. Whenever a proposal has come to this assembly, which the opposition has offered, ask the government if she is working on the problem. It won't be enough for us here in the Assembly to say the government is about to go. That's not true. The government's not getting ready for anything. The government is not considering proposing laws here, and we do not have the Constitutional Court of Serbia. The government is not considering the commitment it made when we accepted an extraordinary session at which we would adopt the resolution, the government does not remember taking the obligation to have a session dedicated to Kosovo and Metohija immediately after this session. The government has been silent for two days about the legal framework for the regulation of Kosovo and Metohija. The government doesn't talk about anything serious. Still talking about the former regime, the former government. Your government was a very short government to forget that it was the opposition, so I recommend you get back to where you were much better, and that's in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6942	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Bosko Nicic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6943	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who knows which time the radicals, as well as their representative, were in violation of Article 98(1)? Rules of Procedure. They used this pay phone again to bring out a series of lies, half-truths and flat-rates. Probably in fear of Minister Mihajlovic, they invented and did not make up the fact that the company "Lutra", whose owner is not Dusan Mihajlovic, was one of the shareholders, and is now not, founded in 1990. ... Laugh freely. It was founded back in 1990, not when New Democracy entered this unfortunate government. Secondly, Mihajlovic never said he would announce...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6944	You asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, not a replica. I didn't give you a word for the replica. The reply has the right of the president of the parliamentary group, if it is a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6945	All right. Nor did he say he would announce the names of those who kidnapped Miskovic, but that they would be revealed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6946	There's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6947	I don't know if we're talking about the same man, are we talking about that Dusan Mihajlovic, who signed a decision on the declaration of Slobodan Milosevic from Belgrade on 25 April 1989 as an honorary citizen of the Municipality of Valjevo? Are we talking about that Dusan Mihajlovic the newspaper says he loves behind? Is he gonna be the Home Secretary? The Lutra did not exist until it entered the government of the Republic of Serbia until it started with the loans. Even from the Nis-express, he took a loan, which he hasn't returned in five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6948	He has the word MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6949	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, draft law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, proposed by the SPS, is a normative, institutional, systemic support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia, and of course, Yugoslavia. This type of enterprise has become extremely important in the structure of Western countries' economy in recent decades, but also in the structure of Yugoslavia's economy in the last decade. Certain data presented several days ago in public, EU data speak of the important role played by small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, out of 19.3 million companies in the EU, 99.8% of them are small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ over 66% of the total number of workers and make over 54% of the total turnover. This is the status of small and medium-sized enterprises that owe the EU's economic development strategy. In 1996, the EU declared it a year of small and medium-sized enterprises, then adopted its 1997-2001 development programme, with financial support of over 200 million ecies. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the EU has been, and is, a function of reducing the number of unemployed, increasing production and technological capacity of the economy and thus, changing the market structure of the economy, transforming and adapting large enterprises to the development of certain areas. An integral part of supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is the adoption, in the largest number of developed countries, of the law to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises have been joining their expansion in the last decade and in our republic. This shows the data given under this law. The increase in small and medium-sized enterprises was logically followed by an increase in the number of employees, i.e. by increasing the share of these companies in the creation of the country's social product. Certain data for Yugoslavia suggest that of 74,430 companies operating, i.e. having funds in the account, 95% of them belong to the structure and number of employees of small enterprises, 3.4 belong to medium-sized enterprises, while 1.2% are classified in large enterprises. In terms of ownership structure, the largest number of these companies are private-owned enterprises, over 85%, then social property 7%, and 5% with mixed property. The SRJ, in line with the needs of the country's development, but obviously also with the trend of relations with small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the EU, adopted a development policy by 2005, in which small and medium-sized enterprises are given a significant place and role, as is evident through the forecast of the sector's participation in the creation of a total social product of over 65%. The SRJ development strategy by 2020 envisioned that the country's development is also based on the accelerated development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Programme shows its justification also in the context of the implementation of the government's economic and social programme of the Republic of Serbia on the employment and restoration of the war on damaged enterprises, which the previous government adopted in the spring of 1999, in order to address the disastrous consequences of our country's bombing by NATO. Then, as is known, more than 144 large companies were destroyed or damaged, and more than 80,000 workers were jobless. Small and medium-sized enterprises then showed all those characteristics that qualify them with the type, the type of enterprises for the economy of countries where it is necessary to change the production structure, find answers to the requirements of development, market issues and the need to make as many workers as possible. Small and medium-sized enterprises then took workers from others, so-called large companies, new small enterprises, which produced parts, models, suitable clutches, were established and mixed small and medium-sized enterprises, between private enterprises and war-damaged enterprises. The result was multiple, and above all the renewal and development of the production of certain products and new employment of workers. Hundreds of business programmes were approved for small and medium-sized enterprises, which included a large number of labour forces in Serbia. In fact, more than 2,900 programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises were designed in the framework of the Ministry of Science and Technology alone, which established around 700 new businesses and employed about 8,000 workers, as well as over 31,000 workers in large enterprises. Ideal programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises have created commercial chambers, both at Belgrade level and at the federal level, but also at the companies themselves, as a way to overcome current problems, employ capacities, restore production and employ workers. The programmes were very different in content, both in the areas of the Mediterranean industry, engineering, electricity industry, chemical industry, but also in the food industry. Support for the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises was also given by regional chambers of commerce. For all of the above reasons: the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises for the country's economy, changes in the production structure, increases in employment, places of this type of enterprise in future development, the logical move is also the adoption of a special law on small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. The law contains criteria that determine small and medium-sized enterprises, the content of the annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, jobs and tasks of the development agency, the way the loan fund works and guarantees of small and medium-sized enterprises of the Republic of Serbia and other provisions, i.e. elements of importance for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The government of the Republic of Serbia gave a negative opinion on this bill. There is an impression, based on the contents and opinions of the Government, that the proposal has not been seriously considered because it is so-called an opinion unargumented and contradictory. In addition, I will list two positions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia from that so-called Opinions. First, to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises provides already existing legal regulations -- the position does not stand. On the contrary, many entities are in a broad debate, which is led by this bill, and the existing legislation provides sufficient opportunities to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The second point is that the jobs carried out by the development agency and the loan and guarantee fund are already contained in the work of individual ministries and special organisations - this claim does not stand. Experiences from the world say governments have those agencies and funds through which they provide support, i.e. to stimulate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. And the government's claim that encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises provides for existing legislation does not stand. This is told by the fact that tax laws have also been passed and existing benefits have been abolished, particularly newly founded, small and medium-sized enterprises. The government informs the legislator that small and medium-sized enterprises have importance for the Republic and country in general and that the government is preparing a proposal for the establishment of the agency. And on the same basis that this bill was given. It seems that the solutions proposed are not disputed, but rather a controversial proposal, and in this case, the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6950	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic, and after that, MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6951	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, and there is no Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to explain to you and the public why I think it is necessary to adopt a bill on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. During the weeks of our country's endless bombing, of 24. Three to eight. Six. In 1999, children, people, parts of cities, as well as factories that have fed generations of people over the past 100 and over. Let us remind ourselves that the aggressor has destroyed or damaged 144 companies and left more than 80,000 workers out of work. It should not be emphasized that the most important task of all of us is to get these workers back to work and thus create at least essential existential conditions for them and their families. I also think, and I believe that we agree in this, that we should provide jobs both for workers who will become technologically excess by restructuring large economic systems and also for an army of young people who have already finished school and who have no job or are at the end of professional training, so they should also be provided with employment. Small and medium-sized enterprises provide a great opportunity and a realistic opportunity to solve these problems in the long term. Why small and medium-sized enterprises, what are the advantages of these companies? I'll just list some. First of all, work intensively. Second, a large choice of products with small series. Third, flexibility for market change. Fourthly, entrepreneurship and innovation, greater motive for success at work, direct communication with employees, etc. Are there already ready-made solutions and programs that can be applied immediately in small and medium-sized enterprises? The answer is yes. The illustration works, with November 1, 2000, only the Association of Small Enterprises and Associations of the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade had a registered and elaborated 351 programme from the metratrestrial industry and engineering, 75 from the field of electricity industry, 46 from the chemical industry, 44 from the food industry and so on. What, then, is it necessary to do and what are the measures and activities that need to be done immediately for the affirmation of small and medium-sized enterprises? The views of the entrepreneurs I have spoken with, seeking to answer the asked question, can be generalised in the following: simplify the procedure and bring together activities to obtain work permits and consent for business space; develop urban plans and give the necessary permits by local authorities; provide adequate infrastructure, roads, waterways, power grids and so on; faster resolution of administrative procedures by local authorities to open small and medium-sized enterprises; organise the provision of expert advice and information for small and medium-sized enterprises; create a system of tax and customs relief for investing in small and medium-sized enterprises; establish funds that will encourage entrepreneurship; create a database for small and medium-sized enterprises; provide the same conditions for social, mixed and private enterprises; create conditions for providing small and medium-sized enterprises. All forwards are unambiguously indicated that it is necessary to regulate and simplify the legal and administrative procedure regarding the establishment and functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is why the SPS parliamentary group submitted to the National Assembly a bill on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises offering solutions for overcoming the fundamental constraints so far seen, setting priorities for the development of these enterprises, and establishing appropriate legal solutions to encourage their development. The adoption of this law should, among other things, strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in the manufacturing sector and exports, contribute to technological revitalisation of the economy and accelerate employment. Finally, this law would contribute to further substitution of imports, basic and long-term co-operation and cooperation with large companies, as well as the realisation of programmes that require small investments based on domestic resources. I expect the MPs to accept the proposed law's vote and that the parliamentary majority will not be overcome by the council, which is why the proposal should not be adopted, only because it is proposed by the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6952	The word has a National MP Slobodan Pavlovic, followed by a National MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6953	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, as you have seen and heard from what colleagues before me have spoken, in front of Parliament and the Serbian public, there is a bill on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in our republic, which was proposed by the SPS parliamentary group in this parliament, which was signed by his author and head of our parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic. The legal and constitutional basis for the adoption of this law has been laid down in an argument, and it comes from Article 72. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia that defined the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to provide, among other things, policies and measures to guide and encourage the development of all segments of our society and economy, including support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why, as well as the importance that small and medium-sized enterprises have in the overall economic structure of our republic, the SPS parliamentary group has proposed this law. To remind you, in the last ten years, the change in the ownership structure of our Republic's economy has made a very important link to the economic development of our Republic. Newly adopted reform laws back in the '90s have created favourable conditions for the rapid penetration of private initiative and entrepreneurship and have led to the establishment of a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. With 20,000 of them in 1990, there are now over 180,000. If we add more than 200,000 to that, more than 500,000 workers work there. Let me remind you that in these companies there are over 35% of the total fixed assets and over 25% of the own capital, which is making our economy in general. The share of small and medium-sized enterprises in our republic's social product is about 17%. If this is added to the private sector of agriculture, and what makes sense, it is more than 35% participation in the social product. You'll admit, very significant illustration figures. After the aggression of the NATO Pact on our country, and at that time, a huge number of businesses were damaged and over 80,000 workers were lost in our republic, a new incentive was given to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises to quickly replace the employment of people who had lost their jobs and the measures taken by the Government of National Unity at the time. Over 3,000 idea projects for small and medium-sized enterprises were designed through the Ministry of Science and Technology, which established around 650 companies that employ 10,000 workers and around 30,000 in large enterprises. So these were all very important arguments in order to remove the observed restrictions and to speed up and strengthen the incentive to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. I would not add anything, nor take it away, because I would spoil the impression. You have to admit that the argument was professorly and expertly, and that no other ministers, since they are not here, should be explained by expert ministers in the government of experts. Unfortunately, and the argument that we put into law and arguments put forward in the reasoning was probably not valid or strong enough for the government of the Republic of Serbia to accept this law. On the contrary, as you have seen, both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have failed to accept the law, and in their reports they have made some arguments that I want to pay attention to, because I disagree with them because they are not valid because they are not founded. First, the law we have proposed does not foresee budget financing, nor does centralised in the incentives of small and medium-sized enterprises. On the contrary, it opens up opportunities for all who create conditions for their development to achieve the same within their competences, from local self-government to the highest state authorities. Secondly, the proposed amendments to the tax rules, which we propose in the law, are exactly in line with the experiences of the European Union, i.e. with countries that have similar laws on support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which our current government often calls upon, and in this particular case does not take it as an argument for. The government's inconsistency also confirms the fact that tax laws have now been passed, the existing benefits that have so far been enjoyed by small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those which are now being formed. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, normative conditions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which we have proposed by law, are not within the scope of any ministry or special organisation, as government and committees claim in their information, and give us the right to propose well. Fourthly, world and European experiences in this area are just saying that the governments of these countries have both the agencies and the funds that we have proposed in this law, through which support and stimulation of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is provided. Fifthly, the confirmation of everything is also a study by the Institute of Comparative Law which analysed the experience in the countries of the European Union and the proposals of this law are fully in line with these experiences, as the Institute for Comparative Law argues. The sixth, the government of Serbia's view that the existing legislation provides support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises does not stand. That was also said by predecessors from the SPS parliamentary group. The confirmation of this is that the views of the broad public debate, which we conducted in the preparation of these laws, have just confirmed vice versa. The seven, chambers of commerce and associations of entrepreneurs throughout the Republic of Serbia give full support to this legislative project. So those to whom the law should serve, support it. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia does not do so, so it raises the question of what its approach is when it comes to fostering development both small and medium- and large economies. Eighth, Government, however, definitely recognises the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the integrity of the resolution we have offered in this law, because, as we have heard, it itself prepares a proposal to form similar agencies, on the same basis as we did in the bill. Nine, it is obvious that the problem of the government and the parent committees is that the proposal for this law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is proposed by the SPS parliamentary group, not because solutions are non-road, bad, etc. I must say that what is happening and with the amendments that we propose, which are also being rejected because of it, is not what is wrong, but what are being proposed by the opposition parties. Therefore, this way again shows the inoperability and absence of the willingness of both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority to co-operate with all parliamentary parties, to support the initiatives the parliamentary opposition has, and it is in the service of the development of democracy and economy in our republic, and not vice versa, and the absence of co-operation with all relevant factors on our political scene. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why, on behalf of both the SPS parliamentary group and on behalf of the promoters, I call on MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt and adopt the bill on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and thus create frameworks for the rapid development of small and medium-sized enterprises that will, beyond any doubt, contribute to: increasing production, increasing exports, increasing employment of young and professional people, above all, which will contribute to the co-stitution of exports and long-term business co-operation and cooperation with large companies in the Republic of Serbia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Europe and the world. Thank you for your attention and in advance, thank you for the support you will give to adopt this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6954	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica, followed by Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6955	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the early 1990s, by adopting reform and system laws, created socio-economic conditions that allowed the rapid penetration of the private initiative and the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises. The unstoppable rise of small and medium-sized enterprises is a strong and almost spectacular manifestation of the project. One of the main problems of the Yugoslav economy is that the fastest and most fruitful old habit, exclusively attaching importance to the great giants, replaces the new one. The essential question is, can we accept and support the proposal to develop small and medium-sized enterprises? A special incentive should be given to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in our republic, following NATO aggression, as a huge number of large enterprises have been destroyed or damaged during the bombing. The faster and better recovery of the damaged economy is much easier to achieve by activating small and medium-sized enterprises. The competitiveness of the modern market cannot be established without sufficient entry of small businesses into the economic structure. The importance of small and medium-sized enterprises has increased in terms of profits that could be realised in them and in the creation of a gross national product. On the widest scale, both in the sphere of value creation and in the sphere of social value distribution, small and medium-sized enterprises gained importance, which has particularly grown at the local level of development. The very fact that transport costs are significantly reduced, small and medium-sized enterprises are easily managed, have less general costs, and good and economic business, faster and more efficient control is easier to profit. Development of small and medium-sized enterprises is more successful in addressing employment problems. In realising the economic employment programme in the occupied areas of Kosovo and Metohija, when we know that Serbs are expelled from their jobs, a significant role due to the essence of the problem and limited freedom of movement has small and medium-sized enterprises. I must stress that such projects, following KFOR and UNMIK's arrival, have been attempted through the South-Eastern Committee for Co-operation with UNMIK and the Sub-Committee for Economic Assistance to the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, by opening up mini chickens farms, mini bakers, mini-milkers and some other projects in agriculture. This has made a major contribution to employment, supply of life supplies and mentioned products, and thus to making it easier to survive on its hearth. However, I must also point out that, with DOS coming to power, these projects and assistance to the Serbian people have ceased to arrive, but we hope that by supporting this project, small and medium-sized enterprises will continue to assist the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6956	The word has a National MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by Momir Radoicicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6957	Dear People's MPs, the adoption of the Bill of Support for Small and Medium Enterprises would be an ideal opportunity, gentlemen of the DOS, to abandon the past and start to deal with the future. The past cannot be changed, and it is known who deals with the past, one day a court will be given, and the future can and should change. If you were thinking about the future of this country and its citizens, then you would have accepted the Bill on Support for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, because since the adoption of reform laws started in 1990, socio-economic conditions have been created, which have allowed for the rapid penetration of private initiative and entrepreneurship, i.e. the establishment of a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises. The latest data show that there are around 180,000 private companies in our Republic, about 190.000 000 shops with over 520,000 employees, with a tendency to increase numbers, and thus their participation in the social product is increasing every day, taking into account the reduction in employment and employment of capacities in the social sector. That is the basic reason for the adoption of this bill. The adoption of this law would strengthen or better say stimulating the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In the context of law support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, it should be said that small and medium-sized enterprises have great vitality and this mark has been confirmed in a number of ways, in a large number of cases. At a time of crisis disorders, when giant corporations carried out mass layoffs of small and medium-sized enterprises managed to survive, thanks to their flexibility, by turning a good idea into good projects and quickly filling the gap on the market on the one hand, and leaving the market where saturation existed, on the other hand. Small businesses have a better option for specialisation, and in this respect, in raising their competitiveness and efficiency, large enterprises have in many cases benefited from the services of specialised small enterprises. Small businesses are investing faster and easier, and in this sense more successfully find exits and channels in difficult situations, either due to the decline of the conukuture and market weakness, either due to other market disturbances as it has been in the last ten years in our country. Often small and medium-sized enterprises are formed to better place themselves and cash their own product, and such enterprises have an offensive entrepreneurial spirit. The desire to be rich and famous, successful and famous drives many people. Another reason for support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is that small and medium-sized enterprises dynamic local development, because they can use local advantages and use their own resources. Addressing the employment problem best sublimes the role and importance in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. With all this in mind, it becomes quite clear why developed countries have developed a number of general and selective measures of economic policy for the formation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Their experience in stimulating small and medium-sized enterprises is very rich and should be used. There is no developed country, which at the level of economic and especially fiscal and credit policies, does not provide incentives, and should be linked primarily to tax incentives and grants. In this respect, it is inevitable that Italy, which reduces taxes in the part of the tax on personal income of citizens, profit tax and local taxes for newly established enterprises for the first ten years of work. Also, significant reliefs are in order to reduce the rate of contribution to employees, thus fostering employment. Given the positive experience of developed countries for our country, it is cellificate that, depending on the resources available, linearly and selectively stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises. That's where I'd make a parallel with the adoption of the corporate tax law. In the sense of Article 44. I proposed that new start-ups for the first three years of their business be exempt from paying taxes. However, it was not accepted. Nothing after that was done in this sense in order to make these tax reliefs easier, although Social Democracy High Officer Slobodan Lanovic opposed the tax solution and asked for the adjudication of decisions made on that basis. His statement came out in Blica since 28.4.2001. One of the most significant mechanisms for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is for these companies to be credited financially. Economists know that loan availability also means availability of purchasing power. The financing of small and medium-sized enterprises has its specificities due to the risks of the initial business period, due to the demand for guarantees, which is why specialised banks are formed in developed countries to support these small and medium-sized enterprises. In our proposal for this law, which we offer to the Assembly for adoption in Article 6, it is proposed to set up a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency, as a special organisation with legal personality property, and that the director of the agency be appointed by the Government. The funds for the functioning of this agency are proposed in the Republic's budget and can also be their own income or income from domestic and foreign loans or donations. The draft law in Article 10 provides for the establishment of a fund for loans and guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Fund has legal personality status, with the task of providing financial support for the business and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The fund management body is the board of directors. The chairman of the board of directors and members shall be elected by the Government. The draft law states in Article 3 that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopts an annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and in this respect gives development directions for priority types of action for which small and medium-sized enterprises are supported. The infrastructure development programme, encouraging the employment of unemployed persons and providing funding sources, and providing investment programmes, and so on, the government should comply with the development programme of the Republic, population employment programmes and programmes for the unemployed, immigration policy programmes, as well as environmental protection programmes and the removal of the consequences of natural disasters. The government is verifying all decisions. You do government and you'll run it, so I suggest you pass the law. If you do not, the only reason is because it comes from the opposition, because how do you understand Alexander Vlahovic's statement yesterday, the privatisation minister, that the government will soon come out with a bill on the establishment of a small and medium-sized company that will take care of their development. That's exactly what we're offering with the bill. We of the SPS, we offer a transparent law, and we do not need to be an economist or a wise man to see that his adoption would be of general interest. It's up to you to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6958	The word has a National MP, Momir Radoicicicic, followed by Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6959	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, given the difficult economic situation in which our economy was found, not only by its own fault, but by the unfavourable influence it has been going through since the collapse of the SFRY, then the unfair sanctions imposed on one sovereign country, as well as the direct intervention of NATO, for these very reasons, and especially because of the accelerated privatisation, we have proposed such a law on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Knowing that small and medium-sized enterprises are a pillar of modern state development and that they must welcome the ready-made transformation of large companies, because small and medium-sized enterprises in the company with large enterprises have certain advantages. When it comes to benefits, they are viewed in the following: easier market adjustment, faster reorientation of production, more efficient use of all resources and many other social advantages. Small and medium-sized enterprises, as such, are an inevitable factor of integrity and efficiency, each and every one of them, including our economic system. On the other hand, those who are ready to start small and medium-sized enterprises often do not have sufficient health resources or professional guidance, so the development in such conditions is difficult and many times condemned to shutting down. Small and medium-sized enterprises are tasked with providing the market with simple and specific products and services, i.e. through cooperation with larger enterprises, to participate in the creation of complex and frequency products. Our small and medium-sized enterprises are not ready to accept such a co-operation, because they are technologically outdated, infrastructureally not fully solved, they have many other problems and without the support of the state have little success. The accompanying restrictions on small enterprises include: increased innovation in the development strategy, reduced level of specialisation of employees and underdeveloped technological procedures and others. However, despite these restrictions, small businesses today grow for a reason into essential and inevitable factors of integrity and efficiency of each and every one of us, including our economic system. All the problems I have brought forward, which follow the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, must be supported and monitored in the development and realization of the state. The state as an inevitable factor and a key national environment team pays particular attention to creating conditions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as to providing relief during the initial period of work (which we have abolished in the previous Bill proposal), enabling the acquisition of stimulating loans, as well as a large offer of business ideas behind which agencies form the state. So far, support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, as a result of its long-standing international isolation and political marginalisation, transition processes, was essentially about certain simplifications of their establishment procedures, as well as certain reliefs in the first years of work. Dear fellow Members, if it was the legislator of the law on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, we have shown co-operation on the Committee on Development, in the joint creation of this law, where we have been prepared to make certain changes, but this has not been accepted. I am pleased that the Government, given the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, is preparing a proposal for a development law, and I think for the most part, on the same criteria that we have done, which, according to the analysis of the institutions accompanying the proposals, have agreed with the experiences of the West and that all of this is included in the draft law. By being prepared to correct the proposal, we had no intention of picking up political points, but to accept, as such, anything sooner to address such a difficult situation in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6960	The word has a folk MP Dragisa Marinkovic, followed by MP Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6961	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, I would like to thank the SPS MPs on one of these laws, on one proposal, which they remembered at the end of their political careers to go in some direction, in which this country really needs to go. We're in DOS, i.e. Our government has a superior task of putting this country on its feet through small and medium-sized enterprises. That's some goal that's long-term for our government. The way we're going to do it is now what we've plotted and planned. Everything you've been talking about takes a lot of money. For days you've been mocking us here and telling us -- where your donors are, where those who need to bring funds, and know, gentlemen, that without those funds that need to come from the West, we won't be able to do anything about the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, for this government and for us from DOS, the fist of development of this country will be small and medium-sized enterprises, remember what I told you. Now that you're going to this government with such a law, you're going to have to go before your government, and not only that, to face that government, but also to say, we accept such a law and we now force such a law to be a real law, a life law from which this country is going to live. I'm a 16-year-old private, and that's that tiny private kid, and maybe for now some tiny, middle private, and I haven't had a chance to borrow a dollar from that government that you had. It's always been with us, little privates, and it's just that you put a little bit of money into the tools and stuff. Unfortunately, because of you and your customs and all the regulations that ruled in your time, I had to build an arbitrary company because I had my own electronic devices that are extremely high-quality and that, unfortunately, I have to sell from Hungary today in Europe because I failed here in this country. They mocked my customs when I came for a plastic box, to customs it or to send it to me by an ino-partner from the West. Three to four days they've been keeping me on customs duty to give it to me, and all it says is a sample. It's the same thing, gentlemen, when I get a device in Hungary, the whole device is writing -- a sample, a customs officer doesn't look at it, to get it in my hands. You've driven us out of this country like this, so we have to work outside. I also had good devices, I had everything, that I could work out of this country. I now return my company here and in my house I want to make children, in my house I want to build and work, not out there. Where have you been, for the past 10 years, to do what you suggested to us today? I don't get it. I'm sorry Mr. Bane Ivkovic isn't here. He was just talking about experts. You SPS guys know how nice it is to talk when you come out here, you know how nice it is to talk about having experts. The other day, the gentleman was telling us that we have the best experts in the world in the field of medicine. The kind we have, no one in the world has. Medicine at zero level, the worst that exists in Europe. I'm asking you, and you tell someone else it's not true. My friend's father died because they didn't have an anticoagulant, and he's so powerful, I could say, for this country, for a whole year, I could buy them anticoagulants. Don't talk to us about these stories. The biggest fear I've had in ten years is that my children, my family, and my friends don't come to the hospital. You mentioned today, Mr. Bane Ivkovic has a very nice story about our experts. Where are your experts? Gentlemen, our experts, 50% of those worth, are abroad today. You've destroyed such an institute as the Military. I know two friends who worked at the Military Institute, who today work across from each other in Canada, on the same development project that they've been developing here, which is a helicopter. There is room for our experts everywhere, but not in this country and not during your reign. There's room in the world. We in DOS today have the biggest problem that we don't have enough quality people in self-government, in companies. Yeah, yeah, they're not our people. [[You can't hear a comment from the gym.]] Our people, sir, are all those who know something and who can help this country move forward. So when I say "ours," it doesn't mean they're members of the DOS. They're good for you, too. I talked to your folks yesterday. Yesterday I was at Gossa's party. I used to work at Gosa when it worked 24 hours a day. Last year when I came to that factory, it's awesome, you come in, two or three workers in the entire production hall. Everything that was young experts left. There are also your people who were SPS directors and we still rely on them today, but they had to be, they told me yesterday what blackmails they had to come to places like that. We don't want to talk about it any further. There you are, Mr. Ivkovic, I see you, thank you. (Employee Ivkovic speaks to the president. Well, I thought you were talking to me because I just called you. You weren't here. I want to tell you that you had one man, an expert, I have the pleasure of saving him as a man, as a private man, from going abroad. He worked with you, Mr. Ivkovic at the Serbian Academy of Sciences, for years for a salary of 20 to 50 marks. How can one man live with that salary? The magistrate, an extraordinary expert, has prepared a doctorate and for three years he has prepared it and held it, and your men, your mentor, won't let him doctorate, and he's already prescribed his patents for one three or four years, as a condition for him to get a doctorate. That's the way you tried, and at the end of the day when he broke up and wanted to go to school to teach, I told him -- stay, there'll be a little more time, your time will come. You should've given apartments to experts like that. For that two-ar apartment, which has Mr. Tom Nikolic, you could settle five such experts and have such people stay in the country, lead the development of this country. (Glasses: - Theme. The theme is yes, yes. I agree. The topic is - small and medium-sized enterprises that have to rely on everything that is professional in this country. You spoke a moment ago, Mr. Ivakovic spoke very nicely about how we have terrible personnel. We got them, but they're out of the country. First, we have to get them back to work. In the end, I want to see this law as just one marketing job, something that's in front of these TV cameras. I had to pay for ten marks a second in order to get into my private company in front of TV cameras. You gentlemen have it for free. You have it for free for everything you said today. Or, if it's not marketing, then it's still someone regretting everything you haven't done in ten years while you've been in power, and now you want to recommend us. Thank you for your good ideas. We will support your ideas, but only in some other forms, in those forms that we consider to be real and able to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6962	Mr Branislav Ivkovic, replica. Make up your mind, Mr. MP, if you agree that the breach of the Rules of Procedure goes first. (As a member of the People's Parliament, Blazic, reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6963	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, article 99 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. An MP who spoke right before me said something that is offensive to all doctors in this room, and I think to all doctors who work in very difficult conditions today in Serbia. It's not medicine zero in Serbia. Hard conditions to work with, but with their own humanity and their knowledge, they make up for it. They get confessions all over the world. I can tell you that what you said, that it scares you to take your child to the doctor, that it's another terrible insult. Human beings are doctors here in Serbia, but there are those in the West who leave a man to die if he doesn't pay, who don't dialysis if he doesn't pay, who don't give birth to a woman if there's no $8000 in America. So don't ever insult doctors like that again and say that they're zero, and especially that you're making a mess, that people don't think they can go to treatment. That's where you made one extreme, extremely inhumane mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6964	Does the MP wish to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure or to give an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure? I ask the MP to declare whether the Assembly votes on the breach of the Rules of Procedure or whether you will receive an interpretation? (More MPs report for the word at the same time. One at a time, the summer day is long, no problem at all. Therefore, MP Blazic warned of the violation of Article 99, noting that the use of offensive expressions relating to the private life of other persons is not allowed. I ask the National Assembly to declare whether this member of the Rules of Procedure has been violated in the presentation of the previous speaker, which was referred to, according to Mr Blazic, the status of medicine and profession. For 40, against 93, there were no abstentions, there was no 37 vote, out of 170 MPs. National MP Branislav Ivkovic stressed the right to replicate the previous presentation of MP Dragisa Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6965	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I do indeed have to thank MP Dragisa Marinkovic personally for showing that the government of the Republic of Serbia worked well in the previous period and made it possible for successful businessmen, such as him, to pay 10 marks without any problem for one second on television. Apparently, he was in the regime, as he was probably a member of the opposition party then called power, very well lived, working successfully, that he could even do what was right for rich people, which is to help develop science and technology. It is because of him and the like, that we, supporting the extraprofit law when it comes to the agenda and additional taxation, will certainly enter those elements that do not exist in that law, which is the area of taxation of the gray economy, which is because of the embargo and everything that has been done, and how widespread it has been, and that many have made it possible for not only 10 marks per second, but also hours and hours of advertising programs to pay on certain televisions and to support certain televisions. And when it comes to what is said here, I responsibly argue that in 1990 the Republic of Serbia had 15,050 researchers according to EU standards and that in 1999 it had 15,700 researchers, according to EU standards. The country under the embargo, which has been harassed to inhumanity, concluded by the bombing, has managed to achieve 0.8% to 1% of the growth of scientific research staff employed in the country itself. The EU average is 1 to 1.5%. What's most important, in that country, is that the number of doctors in science in those nine years has been increased by 750 doctors in science. It is certain that this country, embarassed by the embargo, has been embellished by many harassments to the strategic achievements of Mrs. Madeline Olbright, (the old American administration), has not been able to provide as much as she wanted, but has given maximum of what she could. I must say that, as Minister of Science and Technology, after four years of ministry at the Department of Civil Engineering, I have introduced new aspects of scholarships, besides scholarships that were present, young people who did master's degree and Ph.D., and right away, there is no young man who addressed the Ministry of Science and Technology, for support, material, for the master's degree and doctorate, that he didn't get it. Let him answer, I now publicly invite all those who have asked for material support in 1998, 1999 and 2000, to report to the one who has not received it. All the young people who asked for material support got it. Whether they got enough, that's a different question now, but everyone's got at least part of the support needed to make a master's degree and a doctorate. The value is that we have introduced new scholarships, not only by supporting the regular scholarships of those who are at institutes and universities, and not only by giving scholarships 12 times a month, but by six scholarships for material costs. We've introduced new scholarships.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6966	This is a violation of the right to replication, I'm sorry, this should be the use of the right to replication, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6967	We introduced new scholarships for those who worked their master's and Ph.D.s in collectives, in business, in solving specific problems, twice as many scholarships as those at institutes and colleges. And finally, this one here, speaking for the speaker, managed from 17 June 2000 to 24 September 2000 to bring 80 apartments under the roof for young scientists and artists to Belgrade, and since then the incompetents have not even installed a brick.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6968	He has the word MP Tomislav Nikolic, right to the replica, to present MP Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, yesterday afternoon, on Knez Mikhail Street in Belgrade, MP Goran Cvetanovic, who you excluded from this session, was twice a passerby who fell into a coma, returning to life, 36 minutes was due to arrive at Knez Mihail Street in Belgrade (check that information), a case unrecorded. If it had been in Bolec, they should have gotten there, but the woman was saved because one doctor, one of those accused from this pay phone, did not turn his back on an unknown woman who was lying on the sidewalk, but did her duty, as doctors day and night do their duty and do not deserve to be accused by anyone from this pay phone of anything, unless there is an exact example of unconsciousness, or a criminal act, if someone lost his life because of poor intervention, or unsettled intervention. However, here we have heard an interesting story, related to Serbia, sanctions, small and large enterprises and the acquisition during sanctions. We heard from private people, who during sanctions, as well as many directors of social enterprises, which means, founded a company abroad, someone in Hungary, someone in Macedonia, someone in Republika Srpska, from whom he exported products with the label of a company that was registered there, because we were forbidden from here to co-operate and because there was no payment traffic abroad. The question now arises, if many directors of social enterprises, if we accuse the Serbian government of exporting money, working with abroad, buying weapons, buying oil, if the Serbian oil industry thus provided raw materials, I ask now - how much did a privateer, who had a company in Hungary, sell goods across Europe, bring how much money into the Republic of Serbia's budget? How much money did he put into the SRJ budget and how much into Hungary's budget? The question still arises - on such income that brings money to pay 10 marks a second of advertising, what was the tax on the company's profits, what is the income tax paid to citizens? Is there at all a tax obligation for that citizen who is now spending money here and whether that money is now in Hungary, or whether it has been entered into the Republic of Serbia, as if, absolutely, in Serbia money illegally earned, on which he has not paid any income. That's what this is about, dear gentlemen, you always have to stand in front of the mirror, so when you talk about someone thinking that maybe you're not in that situation, so when you're chasing crime, think about it -- is there one in your ranks? What has been given as a donation and sponsorship to certain political parties, I am not counting on the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget [[Employer Marinkovic requests the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6970	In an exhibition by MP Dragisa Marinkovic, the name of MP Branislav Ivkovic and the name of the MP Tomislav Nikolic were mentioned three times. What he was doing, basically by procedure, that's another question. If he mentioned your name according to the Rules of Procedure and you're looking for a right to replication, then we're going to have business replicas to infinity. There is a word from MP Dragisa Marinkovic, if she will conclude with me a gentlemen's agreement that this exposure will not cause any replicas. There's a word from MP Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6971	Dear gentlemen, my late father was a doctor, I was fed off that bread. Therefore, I highly respect all the doctors of this country. When I mentioned doctors and their story that we have the best doctors in the world, etc., I'm just asking the other thing - why is our health on the worst scale in Europe? Why is everything so tragic? Well, obviously, if doctors are great, they're the bad ones in this country who were in that government and who created those laws, who created living conditions for them. There, that's it. I'm not going to tell Mr. Nikolic, I'm going to say what he, unfortunately, doesn't have, doesn't know and doesn't know. I, as a private man, built a private company in Hungary. It's not the same as when you from out of the country made companies out, and with money in cash you worked, and carried out from here, and returned out. Therefore, it has nothing to do with my private company and this company pays the Hungarian state all the necessary things. But I have a firm here, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6972	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6973	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so it's not the assembly pay phone where anything should be raised, or even tension. I would like to try to go back to the proposal for this law, which was submitted by the SPS parliamentary group and say that we first offered to the SPS parliamentary group to change the order in the agenda points, so that Resolute Minister Vlahovic could address the MPs and say, among other things, his own argument. And otherwise, she got a negative view of the government under the bill. Given the facts that talk about Parliament's work, given the time interval at which we have been working, so for almost two months now, it is not possible to plan government activities in such a way that at any time they can slow down with certain points of the agenda. So, I think it's bad that he's not a resolute minister here, but I am obliged to give you an explanation that he's not here for objective reasons and that there was no understanding of the kind of concession that would allow him to address us on this agenda point. Resolute Minister Mrs. Matkovic was ready and waited in the lobby to make a change in order in the agenda, and she made a commitment to the next item on the agenda. We are not as DOS ready to support this law, not because we are taking away the right of MPs of the opposition or of the SPS to propose legislation to define the rights and obligations in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, above all, the rights and obligations of the state towards them, but because it is conceptually contrary to those laws that will be found before Parliament, and some of them are already in the assembly procedure. Here I think of the Law on Privatisation, and then of those laws that mention in the explanation the Resolute Minister and the Government themselves. This law does not propose concrete solutions. It defines an environment in which small and medium-sized enterprises are presumed to develop. However, we do not have concrete solutions. That is why we cannot support this law, because it itself essentially has an acceptable form, but there is no content in it that is necessary and that would be a fundamental shift in relation to the existing state. So when we talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, we are practically talking about the only perspective through which we can build our society, develop an economy, and thus replace all the bad consequences that in the economy at this point exist and that arise as some kind of transferred state from major economic systems. So our future isn't in major economic systems, not because big economic systems don't have their own perspective, but because at this point we have to carry out a serious transformation. The transformation period is not a period in which we can rely solely on the results that will occur in the first wave, but first of all we are thinking about the concept of redefining the positions of large economic systems. In the meantime, a lot of attention must be paid to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, since it is practically the only thing that can function normally in our society. Small and medium-sized enterprises are, in their essence, enterprises that are left without major concern and attention from the state. It does not mean that the state did not consider developing small and medium-sized enterprises in the past. The fact is that the policy that the state led, in itself, was a policy that often came into conflict with the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises. We have proved this through those examples that we have instructed by explaining the reform in fiscal policy and reforms that followed first and foremost in the area of social rights, and then reforms that will follow through the laws on their own transformation. When we talk about the perspective of small and medium-sized enterprises, we cannot recognize that perspective in the proposal for this law. It defines what is a small and medium-sized enterprise and defines the formation of an agency, which would deal with small and medium-sized enterprises. The agency's selection is defined, but there's no point in all this. It's a fundamental lack of this law, and the essence of this law cannot be, because this law, in itself, cannot be a law that is passed by ad hoc. This law only makes sense if it is adopted as part of a single package that will apply to the entire economy. So we'll talk about developing small and medium-sized enterprises. The opposition will be able to include, through amendments and through the preparation of the law, everything it thinks is necessary to install into the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We think it's an area where a certain kind and political consensus are needed. This way we can't change the economy, we can't change the economy before some other laws, which, in itself, at this point limit the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It's not the attitude of the arrogant government towards the opposition, it's the simple facts we can discuss, which we can exchange arguments about, but the facts that, in themselves, cannot be different. What came from the occasional appearances of MPs is part of the congregation's atmosphere, but when we talk about the state of health, we don't say that by trying to disqualify or degrade the intellectual potential that exists in our health, the expertise of doctors. How to say the full word about healthcare is sometimes the information on which the Clinical and Hospital Centre of Serbia, the country's most prestigious health institution, is in the 250th place in health care at the salary rating and at the dynamics of their payment. How commendable to talk about health care, when in the press you can get acquainted with the fact, and I'm not talking about abuses at all. We're not in charge of it, and we don't have any facts on which we could say something like that. We don't have a court report, some kind of criminal act that would open up that kind of dilemma in public. We can only talk about those facts that don't have a political concept. How can we talk about health praises, when KBC in Kragujevac today is unable to carry out the diagnostic procedures he conducted a hundred years ago. Here, we can tell you how many patients couldn't have an X-ray at the KBC in Kragujevac and you can also look at the conversation that was conducted with the director of KBC in Kragujevac, who doesn't accuse anyone. They say the KBC in Kragujevac was 230th place, the truth 20th place before KBC Serbia, but 230th place after the ratings and the dynamics of health pay. It wasn't a good health policy. Was she necessary? We can talk about it when it's a part of the agenda. We have no reason to run away from those bad facts that describe the state of our health, and these bad facts do not in any way question the expertise of people who are employed in health care. Of course, we can discuss something that was the consequence of, above all, the efforts of a party that today is not a parliamentary force in the Republic's parliament and the consequences of the unreasonableness of the work of its leadership by the PhDs, which had ambition for the academics, without having met the elemental precondition, had no exam from the specialization. We're talking about a man who's not here today, a man who was a minister of health, a man who was the director of the Cardio-vascular Disease Institute, a man who didn't have an internal medical specialist exam, and he got to his doctoral title and almost became an academic. Our society in this sense was corrupt and it compromised and demoted the most intellectual standards of the country in which we lived. That's why when we talk about SAN, we can't talk to the piety about that facility, because academics themselves don't talk about themselves like that. When we talk about the number of PhDs that are defended from the cathedrals, when we compare them with EU percentages, we cannot escape the impression that someone was racing with the EU in the doctorates without being willing to receive some other standards of the same EU that are being compared to today in our society. He wasn't prepared to provide basic preconditions for the improvement of universities and universities themselves. He wasn't prepared to bring in, say, university law in agreement with universities, he wasn't prepared to listen to professors selecting deans and university rectors. Finally, he was not prepared to break up an organized heist, which resulted in hundreds of arrested students and a full police station of those who certainly had nothing to look for. That is what today's government is ashamed of, it is today criticised by many representatives of the opposition, but these are facts that cannot be facts that explain a closer relationship of the state to what is certainly not an intellectual person, according to what is a university, a higher education, according to what are doctoral titles and dissertations, according to what will certainly be our concern, a concern that will prove itself in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6974	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6975	I went out, that's what Mr. Jovanovic probably assumes, first of all, sooner than I thought, but because of him. I want to say that I appreciate that he and I, as president of the parliamentary groups, have really had good co-operation, but this time it happened that we didn't have any communication and we really didn't get the proposal to possibly replace the agenda points. I must confess to you that I would also like to accept first being a law on the protection of minors, and then only then a law on small and medium-sized enterprises, because I would very much like to talk to Mr. Vlahovic about this matter, and I believe, and to you, and also to those who are watching this, show and prove how comprehensive this law is and how much this law is needed and how much this law would create a perspective for the unemployed, and very professional, but also for the government to work on this plan. It has to be done operationally and specifically. There's no work in principle. There's no work - we're preparing, we're finding out, we're whispering in our ear that they're doing something there. It has to be operational and concrete. Here is a legal project that is comprehensive and clean. I would like to hear that from the gentleman who mentioned Montenegro and 1997, this is a legal project that was first done in the working version of 1999 in October - November and has been visited by Novi Sad, Sombor, Požarovac, Zaječar, Kragujevac, Valjevo, Užice, Kruševac and all 17 regional chambers of the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia since October 1999. Every tour wore a certain change, carried a certain improvement. The improvement, which logically should be worn by those who, by doing a legal project, listen to what those who do in this matter think, who see problems in direct operational work. Thus, this legal project was first handed over to this assembly in May-June 2000, for the first time in the pre-final version, and finally it was handed over to this assembly in some authorial work by several people. As far as agencies and regional agencies are concerned, I would like to say - the formation of a government agency of the Republic of Serbia, whose tasks I will later read to you, essentially implies a smart move in every business, which is the formation of regional agencies of that same agency. This agency is tasked with expanding knowledge. Are we always going to have the basics that negotiate with private capital? Are we always going to have basics that negotiate with international private capital, but only know how to kidnap and rob? I guess we'll have smart people who use experiences from other negotiations in some other cities. All experience from the negotiations in Novi Sad, Sombor, Vranj will have the one in Kruševec when he negotiates private capital investment, if we have a centralised knowledge and a good system of distribution of these knowledge through regional centres and the agency and local self-government. Is every head of local self-government going to learn from the start to negotiate with Alba about taking out garbage, or to negotiate with anyone who deals with water processing and distribution? Are we gonna let people learn one-on-one conversations? Learning in conversation one-on-one always ends in disaster. The government of the Republic of Serbia should go towards pushing and initiating it, creating a matrix system in which each one has its own freedoms, but also some established standards of conduct, beyond which it cannot go, as it negotiates enormous social values. I want to say, working out, as we're informed, all that a man can understand, that he understands, because the SPS is proposing a really great law that tomorrow, published in the Official Messenger, immediately goes towards creating social miles, a social atmosphere that goes towards pushing the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and creating a chance for the unemployed and the fact that the state will stand behind them. Not these private foreign banks that take 2.5% of DM interest per month, but the state. A state of interest, as it reduces unemployment, increases the number of citizens who support themselves. At the same time, the business programmes that the state dictates and stimulates their application, enables the reduction of imports of repromiums, the reduction of imports of finished goods, and develops those production programmes that release large systems from those inerts and make them much more efficient and increase their placement on the foreign market. Because small and medium-sized enterprises are inevitably pushing the large systems on which they rely, to be better, to be more efficient, market-oriented. That's what creates the atmosphere. Who's supposed to create that atmosphere? The government of the Republic of Serbia. It must take responsibility to do an annual plan to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, it is it that has to form an agency, it has to through its agency and its regional distribution centres to place acquired knowledge and offer business programmes and create an atmosphere for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. This law was completed in May 2000, he went to public consultations, discussed by businessmen who worked in this country, who also criticised the slowness of the administration, from the registration of companies, without talking about export and import problems. But to say that this is just the establishment of an agency and a fund without offering a comprehensive set of tax reliefs, as this speaker puts it, it's ironic. Where have the tax reliefs been so far in these legal projects that we've been considering? Was there another tax relief? Would you like me to repeat, last year's budget revenue amounted to 7.6% of Yugoslavia's social product. The revenue of this year's budget will be 14.5% of Yugoslavia's social product only from taxes and excise duties. Where are the tax breaks? They're gone. This law is in a hurry to cut things like that. No one interferes with the government, if this law is passed, that on the basis of the law, on the basis of an annual support programme, which the Government is required by this law, foresees a reduction of many tax reliefs for all the catastrophic tax burdens that have been imposed here. Now I'd move on a little bit, more specifically -- what is this annual development programme for small and medium-sized enterprises? First, the government is bound by this law, we MPs of the Assembly, on behalf of Serbian citizens, are obliged to do an annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Under the programme, it must define the direction of development and the priority types of action for which support is provided. What does the government have to do about it? To look at the economic miles of this space and figure out which products and re-promaterials are missing, where are the large amounts of foreign exchanges for imports, and where is the knowledge of this science that is and what is in these areas? When I'm about science, I'll repeat, everything that could be given, given, and everyone who was in this country was getting the most that could be gained. It wasn't enough, but it seemed maximum. The best example is the Foundation for the dwellings of young scientists and artists. From June 17, 2000 to September 24, 80 apartments came under the roof in two and a half months. That's when the DOS government came, the transitional government, the current government. They can't make a deal. The thing that bothers them the most is that the idea is good and that the socialist ran that foundation. Six months is 80 apartments, and it's embarrassing and embarrassing, and 47 young people have given 20% of the price. The whole system is organised between the Ministry of Science and the Belgrade Bank. It's all cut up, it's all suffocated, it's no good. Why isn't it good? Because it's someone else's idea, and it's not ours. That's the support someone wants to talk about for this pay phone. We and how we have expert personnel. There must have been some bad moves in health care, and it's been known that there have been some bad moves and I agree, but health care is doing great people. We have extraordinary experts. Look at you, who are now trying to talk about health care, examine how many conventions our people have been to, how many conventions our people chaired and individual sessions of these conventions. Because they're respectable, because they know how to do business. Our accident has caused many operations to work in impossible conditions, without sufficient equipment, but that's why they learned. How many of our doctors are called to foreign hospitals to do their job because they're great? Therefore, we have excellent medical staff, exceptional experts. All you have to do is take the field of coloroctology. Our people are leading Europe and every part of it. There were problems in health care, but you who are talking about health care, consider that this health care was received by 650,000 new citizens of this country, unfortunates who were exiled from the territory of the Serbian Krajina and Republika Srpska, Croatia, Slovenia and no epidemic was observed. Everyone was treated and welcomed properly. Even that education, she received so many people, she did her job with honor and integrity. Don't chase people, experts, and certain system mistakes that must have been done, but not nearly as close as you're saying. Secondly, the annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises must define the achievement of basic directions and forms of support. The government is obliged to define to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The infrastructure development and support programme is the answer that it is not about the centralized agency, but about the agency that has the task of distributing its knowledge, not to be analphabetically for every president of the municipality when he sits with someone from Buick or some large company or Bentelon, to negotiate something, but to sit next to him a man from the agency who knows how they behave, who knows what their tricks are to cheat and to rob this people and this country. Encouraging and hiring unemployed people is a priority. Priority: Unemployed persons, qualified persons. I apologize, does it bother anyone to hire unemployed persons by this law? So the essential setting and the reason for this law is that we know that we have unemployed, which is known to increase unemployment, only in December and January of this year 52,000 new unemployed, and we have an extremely qualified unemployed workforce. The government has an obligation to adopt an annual programme and define a system of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, ensuring the transfer of scientific and technological results and jobs, as innovation programmes in the economy. There's a reason this program carries quality. The programme obliges the government, obliges Serbia's scientific and research system to turn all knowledge into innovation knowledge, into new business programmes based on our knowledge, not buying foreign minds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6976	Mr. Nikolic, second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the need for one of the MPs to make a gaff, to be corrected, but I don't think one of the predecessors was a guff, but his understanding of life and society as a whole. If the need to accuse the previous government of everything that is wrong in the country, then it must not be done in such a way that all categories of citizens who work day and night are sacrificed for this country, without compensation, to feel hurt and offended. On the moment I was already a member of the opposition party, in December of this year, I had a serious car accident, unfortunately with one tragic consequence. I must say that there were also the staff of the Medical Centre in Gornji Milanovac and the Clinical Hospital Centre in Kragujevac and the Emergency Centre in Belgrade, and I didn't see any scrawny, no scrawny faces from all those who were dealing with me that afternoon and that night. I could say, it was a new leadership, they're waving all the way to the Emergency Center from the Democratic Party doctors, but I have to say I've run into doctors, people who've been hired to determine the extent of the injury that day and to heal. Not just me, but all the participants in the accident. Well, be it a mistake, it might suit you, sir, if I had died, I don't know, but it wasn't in my family's interest. Thanks to these doctors for seeing me as a patient, but you're not in the business, maybe you didn't have any needs, and now you can make jokes about it. I can't. I once looked at that wall in front of me and now I can't say anything bad about those who helped me get back. It's about our doctors. Don't touch them, they're doing a great job. If health care is not good for us, if the money is spent on the other side, remove those mistakes. If you have these sponsors, why don't they bring them back in seven months to fix the hospital situation? What's worse now than it was seven months ago? Why can't X-rays be done in Kragujevac today, and they were done until a new manager arrives? That's the problem, which is that there are no more material costs that they've paid before every 15 days in hospitals. Now there's nothing left, nothing works. They're on their own now. Three days ago on television, we were watching the director of a Belgrade centre, I didn't see where he said -- we tell the patients -- bring everything you need. That's it now. It's the current situation. It may have been like this before, but that's how it is now. There's no change. I understand that everything changes for the better, that patients need nothing more than towels and toothbrushes and then say, "Look how we did it." But that hasn't worked yet, and it can't work. The university law was an extraordinary law; well, if it wasn't an extraordinary law, you wouldn't be choosing rectors, deans and directors of senior business schools under the same law. The same minister wrote a proposal, the government made a decision and everyone was set up. They were just set up for you, and in the last term there were some who were other political orientations, but it would be bad if you really realized what they were suggesting -- that under the new law on the university, those who were dean and rectors, directors of higher schools, for four years, would not be able to be in school functions. What does that mean? What kind of discrimination is that, people? What you're not saying is that whoever did it and that crime can't do the job. By the way, the one who's been in office can't be in office. Where are the rights of man and citizen? The theme, today we've spread about that topic and it's not my fault. Now when we talk about the economic situation, about the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, about the survival of the giants, about the survival of our economy, we have today shared a "Greater Serbia" paper on the visit of the Serbian Radical Party of Iraq delegation from February 10th to 14th of this year. My dear gentlemen, instead of waiting to tell you how much the head of Milet Mrksic will cost you, how much will it cost Slobodan Milosevic's head of Sljivancanin, Mladic, Radic and all the other Serbian heroes to get some money to satisfy the wave of personal ambition, turn to the countries in the world that want to cooperate with us, who do not blackmail us, who will not bomb us, who have raw materials for us, who have a market for our products. You don't think about it, you wait for the West, as if from the West everything that falls from the sky is good for our country. So far, everything that fell from the sky, and came from the West, has killed our country, our children and our citizens. What have you left out of the East? What about Russia, Belarus, what about China? Are you so arrogant, so big and angry that you don't count on those countries with which you can work well together and live? What about South America, what about Arab countries, what about African countries? Where's your soul? You're waiting for America. Sell what to America? What do you make for the American market? They don't even eat woody pepper anymore, they don't recognize the natural smell and natural taste. This is the way. Just laugh, just watch. Where do you have the oil in the world, where can you get it? Where do you import it from? Where do you import gas from? From Germany. Is Germany digging up its troubles to give us raw materials or Russia and Belarus, or China or Iraq? Have you ever been offended or angry by Iraq's move in the last ten years? Has any decision by the Iraqi government been taken against the interests of the Serbian people and the Serbian state? Did they blackmail us in any way, did they charge us double the price just because we were...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6978	Mr. Nikolic, please return to the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6979	You weren't there, my dear Mr. President, you don't know for a long time that this law is no longer on the agenda. The previous speakers adopted a new agenda, and I respect the majority's decision and now I'm acting in line with the adopted agenda. The adopted agenda is - the situation in society. The adopted agenda is - how will we proceed, and I want to help the parliamentary majority in Skuština Serbia move on, to move on, to move on, to live better. Why do I have to do politics if I have to live better? But not like this, not in this way, not in threats, pressures and blackmails, not kneeling or lying down in front of those who come from the West. There's nothing. Here, you've been in power for seven months, and what's come from the West? Where's $6 billion? Yesterday you say you didn't even promise $6 billion, well, rich people were both blind and stupid, so he listened to another language, not the one you spoke in the Serbian citizens' campaign. I repeat, if you don't have friends in the world who want to help Serbia and the Serbian people, we do. We did not dig enemy trenches between us and those who could help us. We dug trenches between us and those who bombed us. You bury these trenches with Serbian heads and Serb corpses. Turn to those you can work with, with whom you can cooperate, those who are in the same situation and know very well where our way out is. You have, or we have 10 million inhabitants, and only Vietnam has 70 million. Let me tell you that we need to work together with Vietnam, you're gonna laugh, and everything you produce, you can sell there. Anything you need, you can buy there. But there are no NGOs, no humanitarian funds, no agencies, no open universities, no press freedom in which you can talk about opposition to whatever you want, and you can't say one word to a single minister, there's no money for individuals in Budapest, now they're already bringing it to you in Belgrade, there's no blackmail around Kosovo and Metohija. I asked the Serbian government when will we discuss Kosovo and Metohija, when the elections are over? You are here now distracting us with stories about how some budget inspections have found some irregularities, and time is passing, time is delayed, and members of their political parties who are from Kosovo and Metohija, you are declaring representatives and leaders of Serbs, and they see for themselves where you are taking us, and they have already stopped making statements for your television. So, developmental and medium-sized enterprises, it is possible if Serbia turns to our friends in the world. We offer you a friendship with at least 30 countries, with which we can work well together, from this cooperation we can live well. You're offering to be the slaves of America who will bring us marriages between men. That's not what I'm talking about. That's the right thing to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6980	Two Rules of Procedures, I didn't see who answered first, please, the first is Mr. Kovacevic, and then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6981	Mr. President, I'd like to point to a violation of Article 98. A Rules of Procedure whose content we all know and do not need to quote it. I think that, Mr. President, it's high time for you to warn Mr. Radicals, if they don't have smarter things to say to this speaker, then they don't have to say 200 times, since we started, to repeat some famous six billion dollars that someone has promised to the citizens of Serbia. To clear this thing up once, Mr. Tomo Nikolic, nobody mentioned six billion dollars and it's not six billion, it's $6.5 billion. It's mentioned in the context. No one spoke of 6 billion, but of the 6.5 billion dollars Europe has defined for the development of all the Southeast European countries managed by Mr Bodo Hombah for the next five years, and you know, gentlemen, in those 6.5 billion dollars, Serbia and Yugoslavia are scheduled to receive about 1.5 billion dollars in the next five years. That's the real truth that was talked about in the election campaign. Stop this nonsense here once to distract the people and insult the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6982	Now what about your objection to the Rules of Procedure, shall I do? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6983	Mr. President, gentlemen of Parliament, it is also a matter of violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 98, the speaker spoke for 10 minutes and of those 10 minutes he said nothing that was in line with the agenda. Generally, MP Tomislav Nikolic hardly ever says what is in line with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6984	I think we discussed Article 98 a long time ago. The word has a folk MP, Stevan Z. Guduric, and after that, MP Tomislav Kitanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6985	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone here said that he was sorry that he didn't have Minister Vlahovic, and most to me. We are here today talking about a bill on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Since there have been stories here and health care, I'm just going to expand this topic a little bit and to some big businesses that I'm afraid will, not become from big high school, or small, but that maybe there won't be any. We here have a concrete and correct law written. Honestly, he's got an insurmountable flaw, and the insurmountable flaw is that he's the proponent of a party that has such a sign. So the biggest flaw in that law that won't give him a pass in this assembly home is that he's the SPS proposal, and everything else could go away. There was then a complaint with Article 2 that this criterion is not very good because it is variable, related to the number of employees, to average monthly gross earnings, etc. Well, gentlemen, dear, these current large enterprises that the government plans to turn into something else, were first small enterprises, and then became medium and large. So we can't legally ban someone who belongs to small or medium-sized enterprises at some point from becoming something else. In the government's explanation, it appears in one part - the bill on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in general is not in the spirit of organisation, decentralisation of state administration, and is particularly not in the spirit of the Ministry's work programme. In order for us to know what the Ministry's ghost was, someone had to present it to us. We haven't heard from him, except that the ministry abolished the privatisation law for six months, and in the meantime, they're running around Serbia without a doubt and doing things that could not be done without the privatisation law. Again, in response to the government, it is said - given the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises for the Republic and the country as a whole, the government of the Republic of Serbia is preparing a proposal to form an agency that will be financed exclusively from real resources. We read in the paper that there are already some regional, that -- preparation -- means there already is, or somehow we have to interpret it differently. Also, to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, to amend the addition of regulations, i.e. to amend the rules in the field of tax policy, employment policy and external trade, the Government is preparing incentive measures in line with the system solution. Here, if memory isn't cheating on us, the month and the change of days we're talking about various tax and budget laws. Either we don't understand each other well enough or we really couldn't read that some new small and medium-sized enterprises, or existing companies, have some incentives for their development. As far as I know, and I read every single one of those regulations, it didn't say there. I'm not saying it might not be written in any next proposal. But in those we've been considering here, that's not what it said. Also, in practice, what the Government and two committees have written, there is a significant mention of privatisation as an important segment that will contribute, without this law, to the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, because here the same thing is said by the Government, encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is provided with already existing legislation, taxes. We take these taxes to the well. By privatizing, I'll talk about it a little later, the banking system, the credit policy, and the economic policy measures that are not presented to us. In a letter from the government, it also said that a representative of the government at the Serbian Parliament would be Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, the Minister of Economy and Privatisation, whom we on television last night in a report in the latest journal, as we could see very nervous and furiously reacting to the Vojvodine Assembly session on the issue of privatisation. Since there's been talk of privatisation here and there's talk here today about everything, I'm going to spread my corporate story just a little bit and to possible large enterprises, which I'm afraid won't be medium or small anymore, if everything that the government is up to comes true. Because it was more than an insolence to talk almost every day, there was a minister, there was a prime minister, that there was a sale of Beician cement factories based on some earlier agreements. Minister Vlahovic practically blackmails the province's assembly yesterday so it would be a problem if it didn't end. As far as I know, and I'm from Beocino, we know in Beocino who sleeps with who, and not who sells Cementar, there is no contract between the Beocinski cement factory, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the last one and Lafarja. There are negotiations and deals with both Lafarja and Orc, and others. All deals exist. It was a negotiation, it was a talk. That's not controversial. But to talk about how it's all over and tell us from Vojvodina that selling cement is going to buy the duchy wheat, don't buy us ours. We can do it ourselves. And if Mr. Vlahovic is already so sure it's a real job, why didn't he squeeze the loop and come to the Beocinski cement factory to stand in front of 2,000 workers and explain to them that it was convenient for them. He was in Novi Sad yesterday. It was four or five weeks ago in Novi Sad, when privatisation was being discussed, and then, after all, Cementara was one of the topics. Why didn't he squeeze the loop, or Mr. Djindjic, who's talking about selling Cementara, like done stuff. Mr. Djindjic is talking about selling Cementara as something that needs to be sold, for as long as it takes, like, it's not worth half a pipe of tobacco, let's sell it quickly while someone wants to buy it. Well, not all of the world's companies would be kidnapped for the Beocian cement factory if it wasn't worth half the pipe tobacco. Gentlemen, it's been going on since 1839, and it's not like some company that's been writing in the title for so many years. (Glasses:Theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6986	Mr. Guduric, please let's go back to small and medium, and this is already a big company.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6987	It's big, but I'm afraid it won't be a bit after you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6988	But that's what we'll do in the next term.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6989	Since that's what they were talking about here, Mr. President, or health care at this point, I can talk about companies at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6990	Well, neither can you, nor can they. Which means you can. You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6991	Why the then chairman, who sat there for you,...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6992	That's what you ask... For not answering your phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6993	... She didn't stop Mr. Chad from talking about health care for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6994	Why didn't you object to the Rules of Procedure? Come on, come on, somebody has to, be you who's gonna get the discussions back on track...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6995	I'm only talking about companies. I'm not talking about health care...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6996	Here, I expect it from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6997	I'm not talking about dating, I'm not talking about anything, I'm just talking about businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6998	Not about...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u6999	I'm talking about a real fear that a very large company, after transactions like this, will no longer be a small company. Because, gentlemen dear, and ladies dear, among other things, the Suez Canal and the Panama Canal built with the Beocino cement, and that's not because the Sueki Channel is closest to Beocino. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7000	There's a word Mr. Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing in article 98.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7001	And by that and by Article 99, Mr. President. First, you intervened in time to warn the MP, and the other member refers to no one being able to cast an MP. Obviously, it was such an atmosphere while my colleague exhibited it. But I didn't, honestly, come out for it, but let me tell my colleague -- now I know where the autonomists are hiding. And you socialists, clear it up in time. You had a JUL like this. What is it, sir, to buy one of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7002	What are you talking about, Mr. Mircic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7003	Tell me why...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7004	Don't let us talk to anyone like that. He picks up the Rules of Procedure and goes out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7005	..... The wheat in Vojvodina is not the whole of Serbia. Beikin cement factory is a factory controlled by the Serbian government, as long as Vojvodina is in Serbia. And you'll think about it in time, you'll have one of the JULs again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7006	Mr. Mircic... Indeed I ask the messengers of the people not to raise up the Rules of Procedure as they have thought, and to go forth to speak of that which is in their minds. I'm asking you most nicely. We started working in one correct atmosphere. Well, then you come out too to prove that you know you don't respect the Rules of Procedure. Don't be like that. It's not about you personally. It's about all of you. And to Mr Guduric, and to the previous MP from DOS. Let's bring this item to the end of the agenda, just like we started it. As normal an atmosphere as it is. There's no reason for another. Imagine now, someone jump to talk about your Mercedes, and then this, he's talking about this. It doesn't make sense. The word has its people's MP Tomislav Kitanovic Yes, I mentioned you, please. [[Emissary Guduric seeks word, replica.]] Not just Mercedes. How do you know? I don't know anything about Mercedes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7007	There should be no one in doubt. For nothing. It's not for the Duke's grain. No one should be in doubt about the Mercedes. It's only when we talk about cars, about shares, that there was no question that there was a Mr. Michael Curtis and that he shared cars. That's not controversial. That's what you said about a Mercedes. Also, I live in Beocino, which is so for a piece to Novi Sad, in Novi Sad there was Mr Dinkic and gave the car to the National Bank. What's the difference? You of DOS have said that only what is good from us socialists and from the SRS, who has been in power with us, will you continue. Since Mr Dinkic continued to do so, then, the way the car was shared is correct and should not be affected.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7008	Mr. Guduric, I didn't even know that Curtis gave you the Mercedes. We're glad to hear from you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Kitanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7009	As a member of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, I have come to the floor to state my reasons for not voting in favour of Mr Ivkovic's proposal on that committee. I express my respect for Mr Ivkovic and his MP group for quite correct conduct in parliament, as well as consistency in political definition. The reasons why I did not accept this proposal are, therefore, not personal, but ideological nature, which refers to a good number of amendments proposed by his parliamentary group. The system advocated by Mr. Ivkovic and the SPS may be well imagined, but unfortunately, inconclusive, which has proved to be in the case of large socialist enterprises, as well as other countries that based their economy on such foundations. Therefore, calling for sanctions and bombings is not a complete excuse, although the damage is evident. The solution to the property relationship is not in itself a sufficient condition, and what is very important is the creation of an environment for the development and operation of enterprises. Which is why it is not sufficient that a solution to the property relationship is simply a solution - in practice we have already seen that privatisation, which has already taken place, at the time of the SPS, and which I view as unnatural and conducting, does not produce results, but only further destroys the material base. This privatisation took place under the firm - privatisation yes, but we are private. And when I say ambience for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, I certainly don't mean that the state prescribes paths to which capital should move, that the state limits every step and every procedure, that the state, whenever it wishes, intervenes, or drags its hand into those companies. The state should, in my opinion, build its own frameworks and ensure that these frameworks are stable and guaranteed for a longer period of time, that people who want to invest know what they are waiting for in a year, or for five years, know that they are eligible for a healthy course and a fair banking system, as well as what their obligations are to that state. As for the agency whose establishment is proposed, if the agency needs these companies, let them set it up with their funds and their money, not their budget money. And if not, they don't have to. Well, I guess it's the companies that compete in the market and know what's best for them, because if they wait for the state to teach them what to do, it'll go the same way as the big systems did. As far as the fund is concerned, he's the business of the entrepreneurs themselves. If they need a fund, or if they need funds, they can make it. He who knows, can and wants to do business, will make money, even on stone. And whoever else needs money to do it, they'll never do anything, you can give him all the time, and instead of the positive effect, he'll be a growing loser. And finally, my suggestion to the Serbian government is that because of the difficult economic situation (we have already said, large systems have fallen apart well, and small and medium-sized enterprises still do not have enough) to simplify the procedure for setting up these businesses, that those administrative gaps that have been inherited from the previous law are removed as soon as possible, and also the conditions and deadlines are reduced and reduced, because time has no progress.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7010	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7011	Dear colleagues, MPs, at the inaugural session, I said that I would like this house, as the legislative body of the Serbian Parliament, to have just like this today's initiative, that MPs and their MP groups are drawing up drafts, bill proposals, which we are going to consider, not only to consider and adopt, or reject the laws and individual members, which the government is submitting. We should thus be confirmed as the legislative body of this society. Today's theme of supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is a good topic for discussion, but not for legislation. This country, as lawyers know, and others know, here's one journalist, has about a million regulations. We're an insane country, in which laws, existing, respected, which have not yet been abolished, not respected, bypassed, and more or less are done on the basis of improvisation, or a government of some will. Therefore, it is not a solution to the development of the economy, for the strategy of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, to make it now into one law. In recent years, we have had a great penetration of politics and the state in the economy, and as a result of this great mix-up, violent interference, we have had large mastodons created, economic organisms that simply couldn't walk and had to die out. I will remind you only of the large combinations, such as the PKK, which once spread from Tetov to Rovinj, and was thought to be something impressive and to fall into the eyes if it is large in dimensions, not what effects, what profit it makes. It was one mistake. As a result of this excessive mix of politics and economy, and countries in the economy, we also had structural disproportions, which we have today and today. Look, to make things funnier and more incomprehensible, we're the state that still has today, I guess, I don't know if it's been shut down, the Institute of Social or Economic Planning, and it's happened that we've had too many slaughterhouses, more than any country in Europe, that we've had more slaughterhouses, milkers. We, please, and day-to-day depend on the import of some raw materials, instead of developing that Syrian base, we've been doing a variety of food business, and that's where one raw war came from, that filled one partner's pocketing class, a class to another partner. We are importing wool for our textile industry, and we have allowed the number of sheep to be reduced by about 800,000, and there has never been a fertilization of sheep to get wool of fine, micronic tissues, etc., which many other countries around us have done somewhere. We're importing tobacco. You know what, it's hard to pull the line between what the previous government was doing and what this one's doing. Which is why -- because it's inherited and it's not a variable, which still brings some solutions, or support, that are completely incomprehensible. We import tobacco, we import milk sometimes. Please, this time (I talked to Mr. Radovanchev for a moment) is allowed to import milk that stopped the sale of domestic milk reserves and slowed the payments to the peasants, which has now caused a big storm and confusion. Therefore, my fellow MPs, my dear fellow Members, should be interrupted by the fact that the state is very involved, that everything is normal. Of course, the Serbian government must take care of the development of the economy, and of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, because it will first come into existence. It will first and most easily adapt to all market conditions. You know that in Italy in the shoe industry, 80% of shoes are made in factories that have 30-40 workers. It's a similar thing in Switzerland. Small businesses dominate, small businesses have a perspective, but it doesn't have to, that's where no one regulated it legally, it's allowed businessmen, investors themselves to opt for dimensions, for the location of their business, with the help of a state that will arrange one tax, credit, and especially legislative, in the sense that here creates conditions for safe investment, any domestic capital, any foreign capital. Therefore, this is a topic that we should discuss and that we, as one legislative body, should point to better solutions than those she proposes, not to make her, for example, a law on aid and support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. What the predecessor said, I think it's quite appropriate. It is for small and medium-sized enterprises to agree and set up their own various marketing, diverse other project agencies, to set up as a group within the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce as a partner with the Government and to seek something more, a better policy, a policy on approval, for example. introduces a grace period for small and medium-sized enterprises to employ, especially on export programmes, etc. But it doesn't have to, it doesn't matter. Mr. Ivkovic, you are the legislator of this law, I have a complete understanding of your motives, etc., but it is not crucial that it be translated into a new law. In this law and to go even to carry out a list of these laws, leather when I have brought, that what is excessive, what has survived - we eliminate, we have a few good laws, and the rest we let go of the initiatives of the economy, people who will make sure that the money they make brings profits, to bring profits, etc. For these reasons, I will, at the very least, refrain from voting on this. I don't think that's the right answer. I have sympathy for your efforts, for your wishes, but it's not the solution I need here today to adopt. Thank you. I praise him, and he praises him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7012	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic. To thank you for your support, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7013	Dear Mr. Trnavčević, I really came out first to thank you for your support, because I highly appreciate your activities, especially when it comes to the affirmation of the village, the rural life and the conditions of agricultural work. First and foremost, that's why I went out, and that's how I experienced your discussion. I just wanted to add a little bit, because of this dilemma whether or not the law. It's safe to talk about something here that needs to be arranged. The first fact is that we have a large number of unemployed, the fact is, whether we want it or not, that the number of unemployed will increase, and especially in the privatisation process, it's inevitable. We can't lie to citizens. It's been in many countries where there's been a sudden privatisation, and so will we. The fact is that the village cannot live on primary agricultural production because it has a slow turnover of invested capital. The fact is we have more than 50% of the villages with less than 500 inhabitants. So there's something that needs to be regulated legally. Obviously, normative people should be forced by this assembly, not given to be a whip of God, but this assembly to say -- the government of the Republic of Serbia must bring an annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In this programme, for example. It must pay particular attention to the country, because the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country is the essence and reason for the remaining young and women in the country. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country is development of the KUD, development of sports organisations, arrival of a bank in the country, arrival of car mechanics in the country, gas stations in the country, arrival of mail to the country, it is the development of the village. The government has to prescribe it to bring in an annual programme. It doesn't stop the initiative. Why the agency? The agency is knowledge, the agency is the distribution of knowledge by regional agencies across Serbia, that anyone with their own initiative comes and says - to see the "elevator" proposed by the business programmes proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia for the Kruševac region. What should be developed there from the point of view of the food industry, from the point of view of support for Traila, Maziv and everyone else in Kruševec. When he sees it, when he sees the experience -- give me expert advice, I've never been a businessman, to get an accountant there. Everything else is just an initiative. So there's no limit here, there's an additional error. There's only one initiative left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7014	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, followed by MP Dragan Cholic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7015	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to waste your time talking about the law. It's clear to all of us that the law has no chance of passing. Because of that law, there's something else I want to say. I recommend that the government and the rest ministry in particular not reject the several thousand programmes that were previously made by professional people from institutes and universities. Many of these programs are likely to remain current and usable. Perhaps they can be used when they already exist, and some new companies might be established based on those programs that our professional and scientific workers have done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7016	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic, and then by MP Milan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises deserves serious access to the MPs, because of the situation in which the economy and the economy of Serbia were found after the NATO Pact's criminal aggression. Because of this aggression, a large number of workers are out of work, and the number of 80,000 seems scary. It's impossible for about 250,000 workers to work. One of the optimal solutions to this problem is support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, through whose work and development would make the country's economic and social security more stable. It is also indisputable that small and medium-sized enterprises are the perspective of the country's economic and economic development. Because they are adaptable to market laws, because they are efficient, because they are capable of self-innovating and achieving positive results. It should all be realised with the maximum support of the state. A large number of unemployed workers would find prey and salvation for their families precisely in these small businesses. No single enterprise in Serbia, not a small medium or business giants, which employ thousands or tens of thousands of workers, should be ignored. Their fate would have to be imperative for the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is obviously both deaf and blind to this kind of problem. The government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister or Chancellor Zoran Djindjic appear to be accessing this significant problem selectively. If it is the companies or firms of one of the government members, as is the case with the company Lutra, Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, or if adviser Zoran Djindjic Dragas approves, a morally similar company on the DOS political line can count on assistance from the Serbian Development Fund. All others must wait for the day, the moment when the government will have mercy and propose legislation to regulate relations in the sphere of small and medium-sized enterprises. Gentlemen of the DOS, you were catatonically attacking Serbian radicals yesterday, so heroic escapes from the moon, so we didn't even get a chance to return the arguments. You, through MP Petkovic, spoke the ugliest of Serbian radicals, such as Mitsinga. It was touching to see Cedomir Jovanovic watching him in love, while he spoke to the same Serb, Meha Petkovic, who congratulated Serbs on the Easter on the Big Thursday, and on Friday he ate a pig's head.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7018	Mr. Colic, can we start what's on the agenda after three and a half minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7019	The sparrows fly into the flock, and I'm an eagle. The proud eagle of Nemnjević on the Serbian political scene is the SRS, and you, DOS gentlemen, as the sparrows of the spring and run from the megdan, withdrawing from the assembly procedure the draft final budget bill for 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7020	Article 98. Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7021	Nikolaj Velimirović has a nice statement, a saying he left behind and wrote in his books to us to read, and she says, "He truly loves you who prays for you in secret to God." I prayed to God both in the house and in the church, and to no one in politics more than for the SRS and as many for the people found themselves in that group. I've prayed since 1990, as Seselj shows up at Little Zvornik...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7022	I'm sorry, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7023	No, I don't. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7024	Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7025	I prayed to God to bring these people back to the path of peace, tolerance and love. One of God’s commandments says: “You must love your neighbor. I have seen that one part of my people does not respect any of those ten commandments of God, on the contrary, quarrels, hatreds, quarrels. I will continue to pray to God, for it is a greater force than any dictator on earth, who must have the army and the police to rule. That force of love and tolerance is the greatest force and will remain. I will continue to pray to God that this group will return to its path. I see he's heard me. Lately and in this session, this party has started to deal with the economy, stopped drawing maps and maps on Karlobag, Karlovac and Virovitica. It's good, I'll keep praying, I'll pray for this poor guy who doesn't even know when he can be congratulated and what kind of holiday, because he's not guilty, God will help him and will bring him back to love other people. My proof of love for that party is my prayer, and let everyone in this figure out what they want and what they want. I will not commit sin, and let every one who has done it ask himself. I will not do sin, neither will I forgive him. If I'm wrong in words, God forgive me. I'll try to read my stenogram again, see what offended the Serbian Radical Party, and they remain fat enough to question themselves and start praying to God, for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7026	Looks like before school, we introduced religion into parliament. A dozen MPs asked me what happened to tomorrow. I informed you on Monday that a deal by the president of the parliamentary groups that tomorrow is a day off and that we will continue the session on Monday. Please keep that in mind. The word has a folk MP Milan Jankovic, followed by Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7027	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The adoption of this law surrounds a long-standing activity related to Serbia's greatest development opportunity, which is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Following the pre-election promises of all parties and coalitions, I think there is a unique view of all of us that this is the most important issue of Serbia's economy and an important precondition for Serbia's integration into the international community. This is a long and painful process that unfortunately took place in Serbia in the conditions of an unremembered embargo, political pressure and isolation of Serbia. Regardless of such conditions in the last 10 years, a very large number of independent actions, small and medium-sized enterprises, have been established in Serbia. As president of SO Grock, in the last five years I have personally contributed to such processes and witnessed the successful work and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. During that time, many small and medium-sized enterprises were founded, and some of them improved their production in very limited market conditions and became a significant business entity, both abroad and abroad. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises has multiple meanings in other areas, which are, above all,: increasing employment, changing the economic structure, increasing competitiveness, especially in the international market, introducing modern technologies, accelerated regional development, saving energy, processing of secondary raw materials and protecting the environment, increasing the degree of specialisation in production and exports. There's nothing less important or time to save. The adoption of this bill would create normative assumptions for faster and more successful development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The bill is adapted to modern market economy requirements, as well as to European requirements for harmonisation of the law. In the past two years, a very broad debate has been held in Serbia, alongside the Ministry of Science and Technology, and other ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia, with full co-operation of chambers of commerce, the Republic, the city and regional chambers of commerce and associations of entrepreneurs. The bill's been backed up. I think MPs from other parliamentary groups should support such a bill, as this will give Serbia's economy time, and thus the comprehensive economy of Serbia will take the upstream line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7028	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7029	Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, speaking about the draft law on the agenda, as a member of the SPS since the founding, I am certainly also in advantage, and also in one negative trend, since we have had proposals to amend and supplement all possible law that is the SPS, together with coalition partners who have been in power for the past 10 years, these ten years of a difficult life in these areas, where we are guilty and where we are not guilty, so whatever we take, we live in this country that is rich, primarily to our people, rich in our natural resources. According to these treasures, we should turn around. For this reason, the SPS has tried to sum up all of these advantages and benefits through one such proposal and through this proposal to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises to contribute to the development of economic operators. All that we have brought these days, which should be a perspective and a future for the citizens of Serbia, is based on one fact that must be recognised by both the opposition and the position. This is the fact that without a good and strong economy, there is no good social upgrade, there is no good budget income, there is no perspective, and there are no donors and donations to come and, above all, fix what has been destroyed and what needs to improve this rebirth. To comment on the bill, I can compare two facts. It's the current state and future state. What's our economic situation now? We have a condition as it is true. It is true that only those companies that have adapted best to these conditions work in the economy. These are also current companies that are small and medium-sized. These small and medium-sized enterprises were also the breadth of the housewives in the coming period, either under one or under that authority. Small and medium-sized enterprises have survived in these difficult conditions that are known to be done. For this reason, this bill also supports the development and survival of these companies. In these small and medium-sized enterprises, it has been retained both the professional capacity and the machine and production capacity. The rest of them are the people who love this company, and they're the other people who love this country. Gratitude to those people who went abroad with their stomachs, those small businesses that opened businesses in other countries and their return to our premises. They will contribute, first of all, to the development of perspective. First of all, we should thank all those people who have built and lived in these difficult conditions and managed to maintain this economy as it is. For this reason, the adoption of this bill gives support to these companies in the category of small and medium-sized enterprises, to remain, to develop their programmes and to adapt to the new conditions and new reforms that this government has imagined. In my comment on the future, I can say that our economic development should be based on the rebirth of all economic operators and redefine economic relations. Big business, big giants in these conditions sure as hell can't survive. At the premises of the former Yugoslavia, which covered what it covered, certainly giant from the automotive industry and some other branches, which employ a large number of workers, should adapt to these newly created conditions. We don't have these market conditions and market capacities so we can cover it all. The fact is, these workers who work there are professional and experienced, but certainly not guilty because we've all found ourselves together in a situation like this. For this reason, looking only at this factor, the restructuring of these capacities in small and medium-sized enterprises is one of the perspectives. Big systems in the public interest like electricity, I'm going to take an example of a giant. We have production capacities in electricity and hydro, thermopotentials that can not only our country, but also neighbouring countries to supply electricity, but we can't do electricity and in that system, which is state, that we have state demands at European level with demands that everything can be paid, everything can be treated to work there and that it needs to be realized without a European normative. The European normative is one megawatt - one worker, and we in our system have one megawatt - six workers, for the reason that we are able to do it, to open surface spears, to destroy hundreds of thousands of hectares of agricultural land. We hired workers from the villages who had to give their land to open up the nettles. For this reason, both the former government and the current government probably looked at the developmental rules as well as how to put the surplus of these workers in one treatment, to free themselves from not ballast, but to be able to adapt to European standards, and to solve unemployment in another way. In another way, it can't be solved without new programs. Our former government adopted these programmes and you saw that it was thousands of programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises. Only on the Kostolac and Termoelectrica Obrenovac and all these things, secondary raw materials occur, energy potentials that are untapped appear, for example, hot water that goes to the Danube, which can be used in one of these programs that I quote for example. In this perspective, the development and use of these capacities is also a system of small and medium-sized enterprises. If this were the government's proposal, which is now formed, I would be very happy to discuss the government's proposal, but it is not there and for this reason there is a proposal that we have made, which was built on long-term experience and passing through several businesses, regional chambers of commerce, which gave their opinion and coordination to the whole team, we have come up with one such proposal. This proposal is involved, I support it and I believe it is also useful for the work of the future government and for the perspective and future of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7030	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejić, and after it Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7031	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia will not support and that most MPs in parliament, therefore DOS majority, are not considering voting for this law, nor are they listening to the MPs who present this proposal. Of course, an immediate question can be asked why is the government acting like this? The government is thus acting precisely because it wants to put its paw on both small and medium-sized enterprises and to make a certain profit through privilege, because they need the funds. They need them to secure in their home budget certain funds that cannot be earned as ministers or as government officials. Why do they need funds? Look in today's newspaper, Kostunica double-crossed his wife, Voja Ilic three, and Djindjic arrests.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7032	Mr. Keseiæ, I warn you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7033	So it takes huge resources, because it certainly won't spend on the home budget for these purposes the funds that are meant for the existence of their families. It is no wonder that the government will not accept this law on the development of small businesses. It is also said here that it is not a solution to turn small and medium-sized enterprises into legislation and could be accepted as a good finding that during NATO aggression, all those factories where workers could work, make their profits and thus support their families. However, under circumstances because of the criminal aggression against SRJ and Serbia, a fully unconscious incentive was made to develop small and medium-sized enterprises in such a way that workers had to organise themselves, create new sources of income and thus open small businesses, crafts operations, to survive. A huge number of small and medium-sized enterprises has been created in this way. As we see in this law, about 180,000 businesses and 190.000 stores, with a total of 520,000 employees. Surely this number of workers deserves more attention from the government and therefore it is necessary to pass a law, at least a law like this which we consider not to be the best, but any law is better than any law. Also, it is said here that it is regrettable for the MP majority of DOS that there is no Resolute Minister Vlahovic here who could competently and duly say why the government does not accept the law. I think we don't just need Minister Vlahovic here, but he doesn't belong here. How can there be a minister who doesn't have his own resolute ministry? You've abolished the privatisation law, and we don't have a minister of that portfolio. We've got someone, Mr. President. A citizen who, eventually, can talk on television and in the media about future privatisation, who is actually talking about why this law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is not being accepted. In fact, this is about privatization in such a way that everything that is valuable to that extent will be devalued, so that we can offer the new strategic partner those natural resources and production capacities for small money. Then you, according to your DOS principle, will privatise and pass the law, one that will favour those small and medium-sized enterprises that will operate in the way that the Government, or individual ministers, will want and do what is appropriate to them. That's why this law is not acceptable to you. As for the private sector in agriculture, this privatisation can be referred to as a particular chapter, given that we know of the great ability and expertise of Minister Dragan Veselinov, who showed his expertise here when defending the Agrarian budget and did not answer in any word to the MPs the questions where the money from the donations to purchase the skills. Where's that money he's got from the donor? We Serbian radicals know where they are. Dragan Veselinov...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7034	These are parliamentary questions, please, you have the right in the end, you know how to ask parliamentary questions, now get back to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7035	Please don't interrupt me. I don't think you're Cleopatra and you don't know what I'm saying. If I take my closing statement into account, and this is my exposure, so prepare for what I'm saying, don't be in context, then give me a warning. I'm talking about ministers preparing the ground to do such privatisation, which we radicals want to show citizens that this privatisation is actually going to be a robbery like all these laws that have been passed so far. So when we talk about ministers who are to defend this law, it is about Minister Vlahovic who is not present, it would be better if the other ministers were not present, except with one honorable exception, Ms. Matkovic, everyone else here has been raising tension and holding political rallys. The government will not support small and medium-sized enterprises, it is clear to us that the government is not responsible for discussing this agenda point, and it is also not responsible for co-operation with individual Eastern European countries. They respond mainly to having contacts with the same NATO aggressors, therefore, with those countries that have committed aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and because of this, it bothers them when the SRS warns that they should co-operate with those friendly countries that have shown us and supported us during the aggression, which are, above all, those Eastern European and African countries...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7036	Please, the subject is not international co-operation. I give you a warning, do not stick to the subject of the agenda, and I have already warned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7037	Is that the first warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7038	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7039	So, this privatisation law is closely related to international affairs because we believe that small and medium-sized enterprises should co-operate with Iraq, China, Russia, Belarus and just in the case of how the SRS does it when it comes to political contacts, so there should also be economic relations between these countries and the minors that have always been friendly Serbian people. It's about agencies and funds mentioned in this law, in the bill of law, and they're saying that this proposal should make it impossible for those ministers who have their own companies to sister-in-laws, aunts, etc. to channel from these gray streams to agencies and funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7040	Mr. Kesaic, time, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7041	Wait, you've been warning me for one minute, so I've wasted valuable time saying what's most important. What's most important in this law is that there have been a lot of words here about teachers, and you haven't talked about the most important professor, and that's Professor Vojislav Seselj, who you've completely unwarrantedly excluded from this session, and now you're talking about some nebuloses that we Serbian radicals can't accept, and these nebulosiss are sexual affairs that are mentioned every day and in the towers of this assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7042	Mr. Keseiæ, second warning about the distance from the subject and the exaggeration of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7043	You wisely want to cover up everything that's going on, that the people don't know about it, and that these affairs get through all these laws that you're proposing, and you reject the laws proposed by the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7044	I'm setting a break until 3:30. [[After break - 16,10]] I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards to determine the quorum, so that we can continue our work. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the afternoon session we heard here from an MP that he is also praying for the health of the Serbian Radical Party, and a quote from Nikola Velimirovic the great, "to love or love his neighbor", and for me it may be a little selfish. True humanism is to love further your own. But it's not a bad thing to pray. Perhaps you should pray for your president, Djindjic, or baptize him, and thus set free from sin. We heard in the afternoon exhibit what is characteristic of the government, that it speaks always in some past and future time. In the past when it suits her, and in the future what it will be, but never in the present time, so we've heard of health care that it must be a bad health of JUL, but today it's a situation that DOS's health, because in seven months, something could still be done to fix the situation, so the responsibility for this current situation is in today's government. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia must be one development chance. When I talk about it, I will first and foremost look back at one area that may be very interesting for Serbia. Serbia will never produce computers and some valuable, rich cars, but God and our ancestors have left us with an extraordinary space. It's a natural treasure that few people can boast of. A lot of blood and sacrifices have fallen to survive in these areas, and much is historically sacrificed that we have one such healthy environment, one rich nature, which only with a good organization and with a little more love and will, if we invest in all of this, we can lead to it being quite well-real economically valorized. And here at the crossroads of roads and worlds, where we have often historically, because of all that, paid expensive prices, there is, I repeat, one wealth that we export most to the world, but we export as raw materials. It is the finalisation of such products that could be found in small and medium-sized enterprises. This primarily refers to the development of sponges, medicinal plants, mushrooms, forest fruits, the exploitation of biomass, healthy drinking water, healthy food. These are resources that Serbia can praise. These are the resources Serbia has, which are the best in this part and throughout Europe. But what's going on today? Today, the largest exporters are right in the case of medicinal plants, which are exported to hay, unprocessed, as raw materials, then PTT, ZTP, Simpo. So some big systems that have nothing to do with the job. If in an organised society, just in such small and medium-sized enterprises, it were invested, to move on to plantative cultivation, to farm cultivation, to employ more people, to eventually, perhaps through the agency provided for in this law, design a centre of knowledge and expertise, organization, to no longer export raw materials than final products, Serbia would achieve in one year, in all budgets, about $3 billion, on one such export. But today, we have people who are in a position to export such raw materials, export hay wagons, and then the Germans return to us in bottles of medicine, and the same value of these bottles as these wagons, that is, the wealth that is leaving us. However, this government simply rejected this law by not wanting to comment too much, but suggested that it would do something similar. She could have wanted to maybe amend it and fix it, make a law that would have been acceptable and that we might already be able to adopt today, accept, move on to one such realization. Like so far, you're wasting a lot of time. There's always something delaying -- that's what we're going to do, that's what you're going to see, and months go by, and the situation in the country is getting harder and harder. But this government is still dealing with something. This is one police government that cares more about what happens and how much jail it will be. I wouldn't be surprised if he introduced self-helps to prisons, when he started producing such objects, to do the most. But it's something that is more proneness and characteristics of perhaps tiny souls, small people who often and with some complexes brought about from childhood, transfer it to the position of government, which is always catastrophic, has been historically proven to be the greatest evils in mankind's history. Because envy and hatred are blind, entangled, insane. They have never made any progress to any people, so neither will this government if it applies to such things and laws, and on the other hand has carried out something that is a persecution of political inexperience, which is terror, which has nothing to do with the real democracy and the real desire for the development of our society. Therefore, from the point of view of what I was talking about, the ecological and these natural resources and the opportunities for exploitation, one such law is sooner or later necessary and necessary. There's our big development opportunity, and let this be an appeal to those who will later propose a similar law, since it's obvious that this one will not be adopted, to move on with its realization as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7048	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill of 29 members has been tabled before us today by an opposition group promoter in this assembly. The government and committees are against this law and it is probably contrary to the government's global concept, because the government has so far advocated these small and medium-sized enterprises that form a fundamental activity in the economy in Western Europe (and the first country and as a neighbour is Italy that is far ahead of us in this area). Why is the government now denying this law that can serve as a basis for thinking and harmonising with government proposals, if there are any? We know that the basic idea of the government is to restructure companies. In the past few days, we have considered and adopted laws that we have adopted. Why is the government now against this law? It's a strange decision from the government. Today one, tomorrow the other. The same thing happens with the government and the final bill law for 2000. It's the same government's attitude about the pay law. It's on the agenda, the debate begins, and then someone from the tower pulls it back. So, the government is unable to use science, technology, people, and everything that needs to be prepared for these laws and to defend them in quality, and we MPs adopt or reject them. Yesterday, the assembly worked until one moment, and then as if someone had given the order, now start acting. The head of the DOS Parliamentary Group failed to complete the thought and idea at yesterday's session. He was distracted by opposition MPs. We Serbian radicals were ready. Yesterday and today, we are ready to discuss not only the budget, not just these laws, but everything on the agenda. If this law had been proposed by Group G-17, the government would have probably accepted the proposal. Here's a chance for Europe to be affirmed through this law in Serbia, that's what you DOS people expected, and now you're against this proposal. These small and medium-sized enterprises can be organised and reorganised very quickly, i.e. to set up master plans and production in a short time, with the participation of a small number of people who, through their productive activities, lead to higher incomes and thus to a larger turnover of capital. It is very interesting to think in this proposal on agriculture which is now torn apart and without any concept. We used to have large complexes in agriculture, which experienced decomposition. This law offers that agriculture forms a new Corps with a quality offer at the European market. Young people and women can find a job and a existence here. These companies can also regulate systems within the framework of this proposal, which solve forest fruits and medicinal plants, because that is exactly the kind and way of organising it. There is a comment in the DOS that this proposal is legally involved in the government's proposals, it is intruding into republican and federal legislation on this issue. Italy, I have already noted, has regulated this in a specific way. Why don't we start too, so maybe we'll get closer to them in some future period, or we'll upgrade ourselves, and they'll think about how we do it. This proposal shall set up agencies which have legal personality status in the context of the conduct of the operations referred to in this section. These agencies should at some point centralize information and then decentralised it according to local principles. The government and government's advisers immediately after the government's constitution set out to record the state of these small and medium-sized enterprises and should have put it all in the process, but it was probably some strange or new, for us unknown things. A certain Mr. Branko Dragas was visiting Serbia with a team that was pretending to work for the government, gathering information and visualizing every facility. The directors and owners of these companies were well-intentioned and opened every drawer to make the information quality and true, hoping that someone would bring the money to help the owners of these companies and workers. The workers are already on the verge of strength and expect anyone to help them. After visiting Serbia, it is now up to the government to accept this proposal or to make its proposal to restructure our entire economy. The government is probably dealing with other affairs, so at this point it is not prepared to discuss these important proposals, such as this bill. There's an affair on the pier. Now these affairs are stopping the dynamics of this government's thinking. There'll probably be more. Generally, the government is considering only the previous regime and the pages of the daily press are full of information about it, for them a big, problem. Perhaps the legislator of this law, in this whole confusing situation we're in, I mean the many people who are unemployed, wants to move from place to yota all these problems from this area. I'm thinking, if you start working small and medium-sized enterprises to reduce crime and anything that's not working. Today, there are no workers in our fields who want to deal with agriculture. It's mostly old people who still have a moral obligation to dig into our fields. If the economic moment in these small businesses were to be realistic, many young people in seasons would use these companies to earn real money in our fields. We wouldn't have to think about whether we'd cross the Romanian border or some others who are now doing agricultural work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7050	The word has been given by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7051	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's past the time when huge factories, businesses and combinations were built. It has often been built for political and ideological reasons, without real needs and real opportunities of state and society. Once favourable loans were used, and once grants, they were once loans, obtained under very suspicious and difficult circumstances. While they were built, it was known that these giants would be losers, but it was necessary in every village to build a factory, that each minister would build himself a monument to life. At that time, there was a devisor -- the radio doesn't work, you play the radio, and -- but I love this regime, the pay goes, and I'm lying. There were five-year plans. And the people of Malta are driven from the village to the cities by force. After that, there was a lack of living space in cities, a lack of municipal facilities, overcrowded schools and small salaries. The villages remained empty, and the cities grew at an enormous rate. It was wandering and experimenting. They tortured us with some over-experienced concepts of economic development and self-management. Either way, the consequences still feel today. It's a huge government debt, and then the sanctions came, so war destruction and a huge number of workers were on paid leave and it's still on unpaid leave. It is only now that we have a new problem, because here is the new government, the new government transparently announces that many will be out of work in the process of transforming the economy. At the same time, Serbia has a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises of different forms of property. Many corporate people have invested self-involved capital, started from workshops, worked hard, worked day and night, fought and created something, thus showing that even in Serbia, if hard work is being done, if it is being invested and managed, that it is making good money. They didn't use state loans and privileges. Often, the state was their biggest opponent and the biggest distraction on the way to developing their businesses. And even if they did, they'd be even more successful. They were not lucky that, as the current Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Mihajlovic, who also served as vice president in one of the former Socialist governments, they also got a million credit marks for the company Lutra to improve their work. Therefore, a law should be passed in the areas of small and medium-sized enterprises, so that such a shame does not occur so that the minister, during his term of office, provides himself with a privileged position, receives loans without many of them being able to use it. Maybe Minister Batic would ask for a loan, but he's got a better way, put a sock on his head, grabs a hekler and sorts it out. Six months of DOS authorities and 100 days of DOS government, and privatisation minister Vlahovic did not offer a similar law. Therefore, the proposal for a law on support for small and medium-sized enterprises needs to undergo a serious debate. In this regard, we must bear in mind that this is a serious developmental opportunity for Serbia. That these are companies that can quickly accept all those who lose their jobs in the privatisation process and who, which is certain, and I don't say it at all with any hatred or ridicule, are out of a job, because it's inevitable. This has been shown everywhere in the countries of Eastern Europe. We think that this is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state must invest certain funds, I disagree with the DOS MP who said that if they want associations, let them do it themselves. Just because they have invested their money, their efforts, nothing from the state has been received, the state can help them so much, and they will return to the state by accepting a certain number of workers who are out of a job. In addition to having concrete objections to the text of the bill, however, we think that this law deserves the attention of the MPs, that it should be seriously considered, that it would be good if one of the ministers were there to make adjustments and repairs in the law, that the law should be passed. It's better to have any law in this area than not to have a law. Minister Matkovic said yesterday - nothing is the Holy Scriptures, let's pass the law, and if it turns out to be justified, some members or some percentages will be changed. And this law can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7052	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petrovic, and after it, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7053	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I felt that because of the economic situation in which the country is located, it would be logical and necessary that one of the government's priorities is to do everything possible to help develop small and medium-sized enterprises. It is known that these companies in many ways can first help to dynamic positive economic movements and to improve the country's economy overall. It would be normal for the government to submit a motion to pass this law. But she didn't do it. Therefore, he certainly deserves the commendation of Professor Branislav Ivkovic, who has not only initiated it, but also at a high level of regulation and coverage, submitted a bill on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. Companies, according to the bill, are ranked in small and medium terms, according to the Accounting Act. In fact, the ranking was conducted exclusively on the basis of economic criteria, according to the number of employees, the value of the funds and the volume of sales. For the country's efficient economy, it is important that there is a balanced relationship in its structure between small, medium and large enterprises. It complements each other in its business. The existence of a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises has a significant impact on the flexibility and adaptability of the economy with changes that follow due to technological development. This raises the efficiency and economic growth of the economy. It is clear to all of us about the importance of polluting new workers without special emphasis. True, small businesses are not strategic economic development carriers. They're big companies. The role of small enterprises should not be overestimated in this regard. However, small businesses are of exceptional importance to the economy of each country because of their other characteristics. They are a synonym of entrepreneurship, the bearers of innovation, the only companies that employ new workers and at the time of a general decline in unemployment and are a permanent source of employment growth. They have a high degree of flexibility and that's their comparative advantage. They can quickly, often and successfully adjust. The prosperity of small enterprises allows for the balance of foreign capital imports and thus to prevent the domination of foreign-owned enterprises. Small businesses are an extremely suitable environment where young organizers, young managers gain experience and can advance quickly. A small company is founded by an individual, an entrepreneur. He's also the owner, the organizer, and the manager. With the development of small businesses and its prosperity, credit needs often arise, especially the need for professional assistance. That is why it is necessary for the Government to have an institutional, organised approach and an organised approach to help in a timely manner. In fact, this is what this law proposes: the establishment of a small and medium-sized business development agency and entrepreneurs, the establishment of a development fund, to help these companies and the adoption of annual government programmes in support of the development of these small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. This way support measures are taken in the Republic, lending resources are provided, loan guarantees are provided, tax incentives and subsidies are given, information is provided on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, programmes are provided, staff training, etc. Today and the world's most developed countries lead a selective policy with their macroeconomic policy measures to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. With us, this need is much more pronounced. Let's just consider the circumstances for breaking the former Yugoslavia. Companies have been set up for larger territory and now because of economic downturns, production ties and a reduced market, this gap needs to be filled. We also need to realistically look at all the inescapables of the transition of the economy, i.e. return to capitalism and structural adjustment, especially for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We were looking for opportunities to overcome the consequences of NATO destruction as soon as possible. A large number of companies have been destroyed and many workers are out of work. The SPS government has made a real effort through the Ministry of Science and Technology to develop programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises. Just after NATO aggression, we heard it today, over 2,900 programs were done. This number has been realized, i.e. About 700 small enterprises were established and more than 8,000 workers were employed. Not to mention hundreds of small companies open within the framework of the Kragujeva flag, Sartida, Krusika and other large systems. All forwards said without a reserve confirm the justification of supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. That's why it's surprising for the government's position not to pass the bill. The argument he's making, I don't think it's a bit convincing and justifiable. I can accept that there are room improvements and that the government could have done with its amendments. This gives the impression that someone's prestige has been injured and that this does not require the acceptance of Professor Ivkovic's proposal, because he has overrun the government with a truly relevant proposal that is in the interest of our country. Let us not forget that the Small Business Act has all developed countries. The European Union also has a directive to develop small businesses. For the sake of everything said, I believe it is necessary, without delay, to adopt the proposed law on support for the development of small enterprises and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7054	The People's Messenger Srboljub Zivanovic has the word, and after him Dusan Ilic. One little suggestion, if instead of "small and medium-sized enterprises", we used the "SME" shortcut, we'd cut the debate by an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7055	First, I'd like to speak to my countryman, Reverend Petkovic. I didn't know he was an expert on religious science and that he loved everything for this pay phone. Your mouth is full of Serbian radicals, you probably want to repent, but we won't accept you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in order to make small and medium-sized enterprises more important in the market restructuring of the economy and the development of the village, it is necessary to overcome the fundamental constraints so far, to set priorities for the development of these enterprises and to establish appropriate legal solutions to promote their development. The law on the privatisation of social and state property creates a prerequisite for creating an effective economic environment, reconstructing the economy and the financial market. In the exposé of Mr Djindjic, it was noted that Serbia's internal stability depends heavily on the region's overall political stability. This calls for strengthening democratic institutions and the launch of economic development. Therefore, the renewal of technology and the restoration of the qualification structure need to be ensured, as this structure of the company would be the bearer of economic development in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the pre-election DOS promises at the beginning of this government's functioning show that she was in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, as she sought to achieve economic restructuring, increase employment and better functioning of tax laws and prevent corruption. But what is worth, although it is seen that this law has great effects in the launch of the established economy and employment of workers, the law is proposed by the opposition and the government has rejected it. The adoption of this law should strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and establish appropriate legal solutions to encourage their development. This law should contribute to strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises in the manufacturing and export sectors, thereby revitalising the economy and employment technology, where positive effects are expected in the employment of young and educated people and in the employment of all population structures in the country. I have already warned several times this largest legislative body, the Assembly, of what malversions and machinations occur in the company AD "Mepritlastics", Sabac. In the biggest scam in Šapac, the factory is taken away by workers, first in a mob way that fails, and then by changing the judicial authorities in the municipal and district courts in Sapac with the help of Vladan Batic, the minister of justice, is taking over the factory by various illegal acts. It was done by the president of the Chamber of Commerce, Radosav Veselinovic. It's the justice of a democratic government. A boost in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia begins after the NATO alliance's aggression and when a large number of businesses are destroyed and damaged, so that there are close to 100,000 workers left without a job. If we look at chronologically, we'll see that NATO villains bombed deliberately large companies, such as the Pancian refinery, the flag, the Kragujevac, the MIN-Nish, the 14th October, the Krusik in Valjev. So, it's necessary to revitalise these plants and get people back to work, which could be seen and seen in the 2000 budget, but you didn't want to do it yesterday. I'll give you an example of the Zorca Holding Company in Šapco. The age of the drive, the loss of the market, the loss of the technological process, so they called for a quick restructuring of the big complex. Certain plants need to be restructured to alternative production programmes. The mineral fertilizer stock company Shabac reduced the production process by 70% and hired 1200 workers. In the past, this giant produced 50% of the total production of mineral fertilisers at the level of old Yugoslavia. The introduction of sanctions reduced the maneuvering power of supplying raw materials and semi-factories and spare parts. Although he functioned in general, he was heterogeneous of production; to make use of this giant was temporarily broken down into several small and medium-sized enterprises so that he could survive and now function in holding a corporation. Thanks to this concept, it can be said that this factory has preserved production capacities, production programs and personnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7056	I'd like to ask you, though, a little bit about the law, if you don't mind. What difference does this make now?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7057	As I said at the outset, alternative programs were created, in the time of sanctions, when certain products could not be imported, the factory itself worked and provided factory work, as well as salaries for workers. The latest data shows that in our republic we have about 180,000 private companies and around 190,000 shops, with a total of over 500,000 workers, which accounts for 19% of the total number of employees. This programme of small and medium-sized enterprises aims to help exiled and displaced persons. It also wants to ensure permanent employment of workers who have lost their jobs by establishing small and medium-sized enterprises, returning to agricultural property and paying off 24 months of net earnings from the republican average. The latest statement by Prime Minister for Privatisation Aleksandr Vlahovic, that companies will sell for one dollar -- he has experience in that because he knows how his and Covic's private firm works and "Lutra" Dusan Mihajlovic works. Because this government is made up of great businessmen and experts, and I have no doubt that this proposed law will not be adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest example is that in Kragujeva's flag, a tobacco factory is being prepared, but I'm asking the government who's going to try...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7058	They're not parliamentary questions, Mr. Zivanovic. The word has a People's MP Dusan Ilic, followed by the MP Borisvoje Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7059	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to explain my disagreement with the proposal for a law on support for small and medium-sized enterprises and to explain to the public why I will not vote for it. I don't agree with this bill in principle, just as I disagree with his concept. I do not agree in principle with this bill of law, because its proponent of a party that is the ideological successor of a party that based its economic doctrine on economic giants and party property. These commercial giants are either on glass feet or worse - on their knees. In order to maintain these economic dinosaurs, the government, whose proponent was a member, collected funds on the other side, on the part of small businesses, mostly private ones, for which they now stand. For years, these small family businesses have been consciously exhausted by the selective terror of the financial police, which has been the foothold of corruption that has shaken our society. I come from a community that's known for small and family businesses and I'm well aware of their problems. In the municipalities of Stara Paz and Indji, practically all of Wednes, the buses were brought by people who came with the intention of making money into the state register. (Glass from the O.R.: What's your expression? Sir, you ruled the state, and apparently you are unable to rule yourself. Please don't throw me out of my place. I do not agree with this bill or by its concept, because the way in which the economy is run, as said in Article 4 of this Law, is to determine the direction of development. This way of managing the economy simply reminds itself of the long forgotten first five-year-olds, the economic plans that were made by various administrations and committees. Our small businesses do not need any administrations and committees, they simply need healthy banks that are able to track capable and creative people on the free market. We also need reduced administration, and I'm free to say, spending time in a stale bureaucratic machine. Our businesses also need new reformed regional chambers of commerce where people who are slow-minded, trom and self-sufficient are not seated, but those who are able to connect their region's businessmen with other regions' economies, both in the country and abroad. Such chambers of commerce must exist only as a result of the interest of the businessmen to join, not as a consequence of the government's desire to administer the economy. The spirit of this law is exactly the opposite of these interests of businessmen. However, I must in some way welcome the way the representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia presented this bill. They have contributed to the development of parliamentary dialogue with their discussions, and in some ways they transferred from a nap to this parliament. Unfortunately for them, the arguments presented to us are unacceptable to the Democratic Party of Serbia and the parliamentary majority leading this country, and therefore it is likely that this bill will experience the fate they intended for the ruins of the socialist economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7060	The word has a People's MP, as a representative, please excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7061	The honourable MPs, representatives of today's government or DOS have little understanding for this law. However, there are no certain facts. In the last 10 years when the SPS ruled, about 185,000 private companies were established in the country and between 190.000 and 500,000 employees were employed earlier. It is therefore impossible to talk about misunderstandings for the private sector and the need to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. Simply, the situation with a war environment, with sanctions, did not allow this law to be brought forward in a faster and more courageous way in the early 1990s, when it was necessary to move in that direction. The need for small and medium-sized enterprises exists, and that this is not a practice from neighbouring countries tells us that agencies, that the direction of the country in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises exists in all countries. We need to look up to these countries, and I'm going to give you some data. In developed countries, small and medium-sized enterprises account for between 96% and 98% of all companies that exist in these countries. They employ up to 70% of employees. If applied in our country, we would increase the number of employees safely by 600 or 700,000. Although there are a large number of companies, about 185,000, and 190.000 shops, unfortunately their structure is not good. They are mainly companies in the areas of trade, financial and similar services. That is why the role of the state is necessary to direct this large number of companies that exist, a certain potential to focus in a direction where our economy could not develop because of sanctions and the war that has occurred lately. There are a large number of areas where the state must help these companies develop, and above all, it is in the specialization of production finalisation and, above all, export production. Our companies, both large social and private, are mostly still involved in all kinds of things. There's no strict specialization that's moved away in the Western countries. I'll give you just one example of how far this specialization has gone, not just in the area of production, but even in the area of jobs. The famous anecdotes -- when one Forda employee retired, he mounted his entire working century just the front left wheel, they asked him what the company could do for him, he said -- let me mount one right wheel. Simply, this specialization in both business and workplaces must exist. Also, it is not good when it comes to large social enterprises carrying a burden, which is now unwarrantedly still seen by a large number of people as holders of development and employment of a large number of workers in our country, it is simply not good to announce with the privatisation announced, that the number of these companies is being announced and reduced. We must do everything to ensure that these large enterprises that have invested large material resources, where there is an educated workforce, which have their own market, both in our country and for export, are preserved in some way and that we develop small and medium-sized enterprises. We won't achieve anything by declaring social enterprises inequitable, of the past, simply shutting them down. We need to get our strengths together. That is why we have proposed that, with the privatisation announced, the next segment of the fight will be the government that will, through a programme for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, substitute the production programme and the surplus workers from these companies that will be privatised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7062	The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Mijatovic, and then Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7063	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard the report of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations in the morning part of the session, which has rejected this bill. I'm a little sorry, and I'm a little bit laughish about this, from the stained veins, the intrusion of Mr. Ivkovic, that at all costs he's pushing this law into parliament, although he's also aware that we're in front of a package of laws in the field of privatisation and that it's certainly in the most focused working group of the Ministry of Privatisation, and in general, a team of experts dealing with this problem. Like this, Mr. Ivkovic, this really looks like an ordinary battle with windmills, Donkihot. That this law that you have promoted has been so good, it is true that such laws are very present, that you have the result of such laws, small and medium-sized enterprises that may be dominant today in many, especially small countries that do not have these large industrial plants, etc., in Europe. But why didn't you go out with that program for 10 years, not to say 10 years from now, but in 1999, but only in 2000 did you put it in some public debate over the chamber and no one knew about it. Perhaps the voters would turn to you and the SRS because they here, too, warmly support it. However, we tell you that there is really nothing, because a similar law, more modern, more adapted to the current conditions in Europe, we will adopt very quickly in this room. And there's one more thing I have to say, to add, as far as Mr. Tomislav Nikolic's pledoies are concerned, about whom we today, however, as a stray sheep should turn to our friends in North Africa, in the Middle East, in the Far East, I can tell you, gentlemen, that there's nothing out of it because we've gone too far on a long journey to Europe, and along the way there's a lot of mental recovery coming, because we've been showered by a wave of negative charges, dominated by both nationalism and chauvinism, and xenophobia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7064	And now we'll have some replicas, Mr. Ivkovic, so Mr.... Replica, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7065	Dear Mr. Chairman, I wait for Mr. Pavlovic to sit in place, receive congratulations and that he can listen to me as I have listened very carefully to him. Dear Mr. Pavlovic, what's his last name? Mijatovic, I apologize, I don't suppose there are any Pavlovics to report for the replica. Dear Mr Mijatovic, it is clear to me that the majority parliamentary group in this room has decided not to accept one very high-quality, very professional and studioy, with public consultations in over a dozen cities, drafted law. He does not accept it because it is proposed by the SPS, and is signed by Professor Branislav Ivkovic. That's quite clear to me, but it should be clear to you too, and to all MPs of the majority, that the story - we will, will, will, I will, tire the people of these eight months. Serbia's citizens won't say -- it's not good quality law, because we will analyse, fully prepare, transparently colorlessly and sign something that will be, when it will be. In this country, Mr. Mijatovic, there are many unemployed and more and more, and unfortunately, after your Privatisation Act, there will be many more. There is one great quality in this country, it has always been invested in education and we have extremely professional workers in all kinds of education. If this is a resource that does not have your Europe, and the country of Serbia has it, then the government of this country must accept this law that it is bound to stimulate, as the executive authority of this assembly, through the annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, this stimulation is primarily about the definition of not making thousands of cloister factories for plastic bottles, not making thousands of waffle factories, but that the state is looking at the economic potentials through the executive government, seeing what is being imported, what is all of this about repromary and equipment imports, what can be done and stimulated by those business programs that are developing our scientific and research minds, our people, and that, based on these business programs, it develops by stimulating small and medium-sized enterprises, it employs when it is available to this country and completes the economic environment and raises the standard of citizens. Unfortunately, this Europe of yours felt only with three and a half times the budget and twice the size of the total social product for taxes and excise taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7066	The word is Mr. Nikolic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7067	A long time ago, someone said that old age alone brings enough evil and that we should not burden it with personal frustration and hatred. Your trip to Europe, if you expect to be an equal member in this Europe, I will not wait, let alone you, my dear sir. But if you're already on that path, and if you're misbehaved to talk about those we can normally work with now, but wait for how this Europe you're going to meet, to all of you, who are going to go that way, first I suggest you don't go through Serbian corpses to Europe, and secondly, when you get there, bring a lot of bandages and bring good doctors to you, it'll be good for you to patch up your tours in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7068	There is a word from MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7069	Ladies and gentlemen, that there has been a change in Serbia, the testimony of today's session of the Serbian Parliament, because, even though we are on the agenda at the end of the sixth week of the permanent session, there is a law proposed by representatives of the former government, i.e. today's opposition. That says there's been a change. Thanks to my colleagues, the chronicler, Tommy Panajotovic, I find that has not been the practice before. Let's just say that only the Democratic Party has proposed a dozen laws, which have never come to the agenda, that only once in the privatisation law package has been drawn from the context, which, despite the proponent's warning that this is bringing additional problems, was adopted (it was the Law on Privatisation and Revaluation) in order to emulate and compromise both the promoter and the idea of privatisation. But so much for the relationship sometimes and now. I will talk about the law, not by entering the promotional-political motives of the promoter, but about what it means at this point. The need to increase production and employment is more than obvious. The benefits of small and medium-sized enterprises, too. But the question arises - can this be achieved in this way? The question arises -- what is the understanding of state and economy relations, is this law offering the DOS government to manage a part of very important in the economy -- small and medium-sized enterprises? Did the experiences we had before in the former government, with centralized funds, where I would not now take advantage of the opportunity to read the material of a budget inspection containing numerous examples of illegal money flows, and those funds that, at least on television, looked like national sanctity, the country's Renewal Fund, the Development Fund, and in reality, were a drop in the sea of impoverished economy? It is a new attitude between the state and the economy in which the state does not manage business and businesses, where, as some here have spoken about tax laws, it prescribes rules of play, creates a domestic and international environment, in which a free market economy is carried out. Of course, a conscious problem is that the establishment of macroeconomic conditions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises does not go so quickly. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as you know, has formed its services in four regional centres in Serbia, Leskovac, Valjevo, Vrsac and Kragujevac, and has divided about 2.5 million credit marks, up to 150,000 marks, into three to five years, with a grace period of one year and an annual interest of 8%. You'll admit it's a very acceptable condition. The aim is to open this agency in other regional centres and to form a republican agency, as it is necessary to make temporary investments and assistance in this inter-periode, in order to make a very difficult social ballast easier. The relationship between state and economy should be such that the state prescribes rules of the game, that we never discuss - whether this or that firm got credit, but that the conditions are equal for everything, which in the previous period, when it comes to the Development Fund and the Country Reconstruction Fund, was not the case. And that the borrower shall be responsible for the return, or payment, including the forced one. Only then will the story cease whether the company that received the loan is directly or indirectly related to some political group or something else. A very important job, which contributes to the creation of conditions for small businesses, is decentralisation that will enable the interest of both municipalities and regions, the return of autonomy to Vojvodina, in order to create interest at all levels. Because if local communities have incomes, their own, they will be far more interested in racing which better conditions will offer to find a particular factory or company right on their territory. It's a healthy game, it's not annihilation of the state, it's a very positive step, and it will certainly be gradually implemented. One of the most important conditions, which has already been achieved, is to stop the printing of money. There are no loans in inflation terms, no credits in the economy, no consumer credits, no production financing, if there is inflation. There's no worse tax than printing money. The condition of all conditions is met. Of course, there is also the price of it, there are social categories that need to be protected under such conditions. The other important conditions we have also met are simple, fair, pre-known taxes, where the regulation cannot intervene overnight to change the conditions of business, to introduce new obligations, while other economic operators are not given a timely period of time to calculate this type of obligation in their business. We could have gone even to give economic operators that kind of obligation, to calculate them into their business. That is why there was so much controversy, because there were different rates and many reliefs that allowed tax avoidance, i.e. unfair conditions for economic operators on the market, without talking about those who allowed the exemption from payment of obligations. When it comes to tax levels - it is now a relationship between needs and possibilities and can always be discussed. But the condition of simplicity, justice and equality for all those involved in traffic, that's important, I think we created that condition. Thirdly, I would say the most important condition for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is the abolition of social property, which will say privatisation. I purposely stated this because the parallel existence of private and social property that characterized the previous period, in which many private enterprises were founded, led to wild privatisation, the transfer of social capital completely uncontrollable into private capital and the total destruction of large systems. The basic cause of the destruction of large systems lies in the parallel existence of private and social property. What is practical - in the last ten years, companies whose only activity was to supply raw materials to social enterprises, to pay them electricity compensation, to shut them down, sometimes with political ties, taxes, and to have their goods lords on the market, to have twice as much prices as producers themselves in social enterprises. This has led to the collapse of social enterprises. Thus, in '93 and '95, there was a full party control over social enterprises, that there were many SPS companies between these companies, meaning a direct party, which maintained order and discipline in the circulation of money, through primary emissions, loans, import licences, social enterprises and back. That's why there's been a revolt in social enterprises. It's a big mistake that DOS organized the replacement of directors. In many companies, the people freed from fear have failed. He's in the middle of rage, my dear gentlemen. Yes, he broke down his anger, because of the haughtiness of the economic and political elite, which was created on the parallel system of social and state property. Privatisation, probably, which is neither brutal nor fast, but is complete and real, public and mostly autonomous, because the role of the state is not to sell but to regulate the rules of the game and to control parliament, including control, can solve this problem. I'm done. There are two other conditions. It's removing the price difference in agriculture. This significant support for integration into the international community, equally: Russia - America - China. And on October 6th, there was a Russian official here first, and I don't know how the dilemma that we share the international community. We're working equally well with everyone and there's no ambition for DOS to engage in establishing a new block division.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7070	The word is made by MP Stevan Guduric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7071	In accordance with Article 98. If you'd listened very carefully in the morning, you'd have heard that, in fact, the President of the Assembly had put me up to this. He said, whenever there's something going on that's not on the agenda, report it. In the morning, everyone was talking outside the agenda, and I was talking about companies, and he said it's not a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7072	National MP Stevan Guduric called for a violation of Article 98(1). The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. If Article 98 of Law 1 in this congregation were strictly respected by all 250 MPs, we would hear about four discussions here from January 22 to this day. The word has a folk MP, Milutin Svedovic. Excuse me, MP, would you like to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? (He speaks to the People's Messenger Guduric. No, no, no, Excuse me, MP, once again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7073	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, by intensive process of establishing private enterprises and private actions that have recently been registered in Serbia around 380 thousand, as businesses, only small businesses account for 94% of the total number of enterprises in the Republic. It is therefore important to change the ownership structure of the economy in the Republic. In total income, private economy participates with around 30% and in profits achieved with over 40%. Only in small businesses is the total income greater than the total expenditure. And that, with relatively small capital, of about 10% of the total capital and about 45% of the total number of employees in the Republic, including owners who are employed in their own companies. These indicators are only indicators of the state, success and importance this part of the economy has in the overall economic development and economy. In the past 10 years, the biggest burden of sanctions has been borne by small and medium-sized enterprises, and despite the difficulties in business, 30% of total foreign trade has been achieved by entrepreneurs. The Small and Medium Enterprises and Independent Actions sector, however, is characterised by a small economic unit force, a low technological level, an unfavourable structure in terms of type of activity, an unfavourable size structure. Then, focus on narrow, local markets, the absence of cooperative links and other forms of co-operation with large enterprises, limited use of other environmental development potentials, as well as free production and business capacity. It is estimated that small and medium-sized enterprises can contribute significantly to addressing the problem of unemployment and redundancies. According to research by the Institute and the Republic Labour Market Office, there is a willingness of these companies, provided that the necessary system and infrastructure conditions are provided, i.e. to create an incentive environment for their expansion and profitability of business, to employ around 700 thousand new workers over the next two or three years, of which 480,000 would be full-time and 220 000 through flexible forms of employment. It is slightly less than a permanent contingent of the unemployed in the labour market in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the approximately level of existing employee surpluses. This should be added to the fact that the vast majority of young people in the labour market prefer employment in small businesses. According to research by our small and medium-sized enterprises institutes, more than 80% of unemployed young people have expressed their desire to deal with private business, with the willingness to bring their respective resources into the launch of their own business. So, the country, business space, machines, means of transport, etc., including the willingness to engage in training programmes for the launch of private business. You start political, economic and social reforms, which our government is working intensively on - these are high priority laws, measures and instruments that improve institutional, organisational, financial and technical conditions for development and more efficient small and medium-sized enterprises, given their role in reviving economic flows, balancing the economic structure, achieving stable and economic growth, better use of free capacity and greater, more productive employment. Economic growth in Serbia, which has great potential, will move across small and medium-sized enterprises as a driving force for development. Soon, when the laws are passed, the privatisation, liberalisation and restructuring processes will start by changing the size of economic units or by changing their performance, by making major changes in the tax, banking and credit systems, investment policy and customs regimes. The agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as its regional branches, has been formed. In the appropriate cabinets, a law on encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and private entrepreneurship is also being drawn up. Significant financial resources are expected from the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction, the EU, donations from other countries' governments and individual foreign banks and the opening of credit lines for the launch or expansion of private business. The government of the Republic of Serbia through a new development agency will target 10 regions to invest in high-profit entrepreneurial programmes, with loans being granted predominantly on the basis of a real credit assessment of the lender's credit rating and the profitability of the project, i.e. the loan programme. It is also estimated that through a programme of development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be financed from international financial institutions, there will also be recovery of major economic systems. With a draft law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, domestic and foreign legal and natural persons can set up investment, business and other funds to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and, in accordance with the law governing the legal position of investment, enterprise and other funds of banks and other financial organisations. The government of the Republic of Serbia is also working on designing legislation on investment funds, developing the principles of their business, developing criteria and conditions for granting credits. Investment funds would also open their criteria and conditions of credit approval and wider possibilities for the application of the franchise system, and since such a type of business is more secure and much better achieved commercial and developmental benefits than in the known forms of development of existing or setting up new business entities. The franchise system will have an equal position in granting loans to entrepreneurs by investment funds. We expect that a significant source of incentives for entrepreneurship will be private, or informal capital, because funding from private sources is much more flexible than through banks, which do not want to risk with entrepreneurs. Reforms and chamber mechanisms and the creation of a wide network of associations of entrepreneurs are under way, as well as the development of various programmes and forms of training of potential entrepreneurs to start a private business, as well as the professional improvement of existing owners and managers of small and medium-sized enterprises. A special role in encouraging private entrepreneurship and the start of businesses is played by employment institutions, which should provide investment investments for self-employment, as active employment policy measures. The involvement of the Institute for Small and Medium Enterprises, as well as other consulting firms, as well as these agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, has provided a summary version of thousands of investment programmes to launch or expand private companies. Investment programmes shall be designed to access the investment thinking of entrepreneurs and provide elements to identify profitablely attractive areas and activities, based on their summary descriptions and exact economic indicators. This bill, which is before us, is unfortunately written in a Cardel dictionary and the DSS parliamentary group will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7074	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7075	Mr. Chairman, you should be worried. When I answer for the pay phone, ovations from the O.R. and from the left, and on the right. Your position is compromised.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7076	It's a general thrill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7077	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the economic-social programme of the former government of the Republic of Serbia, which solved the problem of 80,000 workers who had lost their jobs, because their factories were torn down, or the problem of 250,000 workers who had lost their jobs, because they were employed in factories that participated in the production chain with these companies, prove their justification, but you, gentlemen of the DOS, gave up the programme. Today, over 250,000 workers were employed in small and medium-sized enterprises, in 180,000 enterprises. The Serbian government has taken measures aimed at financing production, under favourable conditions that have provided permanent employment for workers who have lost their jobs, returning to agricultural property, taking over workers by other businesses, etc. The bill provides for the government to define an annual programme for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the establishment of a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency that would propose to the government development policy, an annual programme, analyse the situation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises at the level of the Republic. It also envisions establishing a fund for loans and guarantees to small and medium-sized enterprises of the Republic of Serbia, with the task of providing financial support to these companies. The Fund would be financed from budget funds, own-action revenues, funds achieved by the emission of its own short- and long-term bonds. The Fund would be managed by the Management Board whose members would be appointed by the Government. The committee responsible did not give a clear argument as to why this law should not be supported. The topic is crime, where you are, will be tomorrow. It's clear why that's the case. DOS is not interested in small and medium-sized enterprises at all, they are only interested in those companies that can be sold well, such as Cementar Beocin, and one that, there, some Dragas, by order of Zoran Djindjic, has been designated as eligible for sale. What law does this more privatized contract mean to us, because it has been put out of force by the Law on its own transformation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7078	The Privatisation Act is still on the agenda. Don't rush.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7079	The bill is good, but the government that needs to enforce it is neither mature, nor good, nor responsible. She deals herself by chasing and making affairs. He's constantly chasing thieves in the former regime, but thieves and criminals are in their ranks, because many have flown from the former parties. Gentlemen, what about Lutra Dusan Mihajlovic and 30 million dinars - a million marks from the Development Fund? Just because the police minister, a DOS member, got a million marks. What about Vladan Batic, will he be responsible for all the crime he's committed?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7080	Mr. Janjic, imagine putting me in a position to give you a warning. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7081	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vladan Batic is a lawyer, a small businessman and he fits very nicely here. What about Vladan Batic, will he be responsible for the crime he's committed? They will, and I'm ordering him to remove his fat fingers from the Cat and South of Serbia, because instead of dollar bills, he'll get steel bracelets. Gentlemen of the DOS, you don't have money for small businesses, but you started buying those little planes. They're for running away, right? And you, Mr. Chairman, the lady who replaced you should have trained. Your MP, now I don't even see where he is, the Socialists tricked him into being a biology class and he talked all the time about dinosaurs, not small and medium-sized enterprises. He's not in the O.R. right now, but it looks like that gentleman from Paz. He was just here, went to the socialist and missed the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7082	The People's Messenger Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7083	Your DOS seems to have caught an afternoon nap. You're taking a nap, and you didn't hear the government fall. You didn't hear the government went down in Italy, you didn't hear Berlusconi win. Look how I shake you up right now. Dear People's MPs, the legislator of this law should certainly acknowledge his good intentions. Small and medium-sized enterprises are a pillar, the backbone of every healthy economy, both in Europe and in the United States and Japan, in one word in all developed countries in the world. For example, communist China, when it started through economic reforms 10 years ago, has just forced the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Just thanks to this concept of development, China today has the highest growth rate in the world. We heard here today from one DOS MP, Mr. Zahari Trnavčević, one nebulosic, not to say stupidity, that the state should not interfere in this area with its legislation. Gentlemen, there is absolutely no state in the world that, when it adopts a concept of development, and I think it is a consensus in this assembly that the perspective of Serbia's development is just the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, that its legislation does not affect the acceleration of this development. So please, from the DOS parliamentary group, when you define people who are going to talk about such important issues in the future, make sure that competent people do it anyway. I understand what the promoter has to do with this proposal. We have a government today, we have a government that's been running this country for eight months. We in the country have a government that has no concept of development. Even better said, their only concept is some hypothetical aid, some hypothetical money that America and Western Europe will give. Now it is clear to everyone in this country that there is nothing to help, or if it comes to it, that it will be conditioned by such concessions by this state and the people, that generations will be ashamed of what we have done. The government has given us a pamphlet these days. It is the paper titled "The First 100 Days of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". You've probably all had a chance to read this. The content of that document, if you can even call it a document, is below any criticism. A better document would also create this black Civil League or these Covics, for some stands in some forest village of 20-30 people living there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7084	Mr. Veljkovic, can we talk about something?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7085	I'm just on the subject. This government has dared to give such a piece of paper to the MPs. In this paper, which speaks of small and medium-sized enterprises, Mr. President, there is nothing. One empty Mytinga dictionary. There's no serious analysis of the state's current situation, there's no serious concept of transformation in the economy, there's no concept of development. If what I'm saying is not true, I strongly urge you to distribute this document to the citizens of Serbia. Let the citizens in that paper assess the impressive results of this government. The people will be able to compare this document to the one you shared before the elections. You remember that document you shared before the elections -- the first day we'll do it, the second day it, the first week it, etc. I think the G17 shared it. Then people will compare these two documents, and if these are such impressive results you have nothing to worry about for your political future. So we realize that the government has no concept of economic development, that there is no concept of development of small and medium-sized enterprises. So this government doesn't have that concept. It's about big systems that I don't even talk about. They're probably already written off. In the field of major economic systems, the government is making the same moves as the Socialists, absolutely the same. I'll just give you two examples. The Socialists, for example, were growing mushrooms at the Sartid Ironworks. You are now going to a car factory in Kragujevac to make cigarettes or probably to grow tobacco in those factory halls.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7086	Mr. Veljkovic, you abuse my patience. Please either start talking about a legal proposal or we stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7087	I'm talking about the concept of developing small and medium-sized enterprises. Another example, they've been making populist moves of the type -- support for export programs. Remember, when it was sold to Telecom for a billion and 400 million marks, the then Serbian government, the Socialist government, all shared it with companies in support of export programmes. Normally, what black export programs. It all ended in consumption, it all ended in wages. The same thing you did now with these 100 million marks, and those 100 million marks, for example, could have restored one bridge or set off in the construction of a regional road. By hiring a construction operation, they would pull thousands of cooperatives, and there was a shift in economic development. But unfortunately, this government doesn't know or won't. I'm not surprised when people -- Covic, Mihajlovic -- are checked in her ranks, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7088	Mr. Veljkovic, I give you my first warning. Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7089	You can't expect a more modern approach from them. So, I propose to this law, Mr. President, not to dispute the good intentions, especially in light of the government's inactivity in this field, but I believe that the very solutions in the text of the law are too general, without concrete methodologies that guarantee efficiency and results. The law itself is written in an archaic self-government dictionary (I hope you've all read that) that practically doesn't say anything. We all remember this dictionary from powerful self-government agreements, social agreements, etc. It's a dictionary, you could say, the law on joint work, Cardell's dictionary, as a colleague said. So, I appreciate the good intentions, especially in the absence of any activity of this government in this field, but I suggest that I suggest that the law withdraws from the procedure, to process it, with a consultation with the comparative legislation of the countries that have already done it in a good way, and I will vote with abstention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7090	The word has a national envoy Milorad Mircic, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic. They're not present. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Todorovic, and after that, MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7091	Dear President, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, the relationship to the law on the agenda today is clearly seen from the number of MPs present at today's session. Here, and right now on the screen, it's clear that there are only 23 MPs in the room. It is a surprise to me that today is the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which was regularly there, with only one-third present at this meeting. With no respect to the MPs of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, the laws proposed by the opposition Socialist Party of Serbia are seen by the president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia in the second half of the second hour today entering the hall, and in the afternoon session he was in the hall for a total of five minutes, and there is absolutely no more in the hall. It's a relationship, respected colleagues and colleagues, a relationship between you and the laws proposed by another party. Of you 176 isn't even 70, but that's what we have to live with and what our viewers and our voters need to know. After the suspension of sanctions when the world and Europe have opened up to us, and we towards them, the most important thing for our Serbia and our people is to revive and dynamicise existing production, as well as to introduce new production. This resuscitation and dynamicization of production is very important, because it and the only way to start living better in this country is to finally start our man's standard in some way, that we and our children start to seriously return to factory halls, that machines in our plants start to explode in more shifts. Knowing that even after so many years of sanctions, the suspension of production, the inability to export, illegal imports or imports to a small door through several intermediaries, today it is difficult to launch large systems or even individual branches of economy and industry, the last moment is, I would say, to talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, which are everywhere in the world the basis of development and the largest valve of human employment. The legislative proposal to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises today is the first, colleagues and fellow MPs, I repeat the first legislative act, which, after the three-month session of the Assembly, lies before us, which is not about spending, but about creating. Both the 20th and some points of the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the Assembly, which we started on 9th April, were only dealing with the regulation of the relationship in the spending of money, i.e. by regulating the relationship in the deobi of money, the financing of the state. That is why this legal proposal for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is so important, because it is the first law to talk about some kind of creation. The legislative proposal has laid the right basis for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises through its basic areas. The first of four areas sets out criteria for the classification and definition of small and medium-sized enterprises, the second area sets out annual programmes for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, in line with the government's development programme in line with the development plans of the Republic. In the third part of this proposal, the law defines the establishment of a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency, with the definition of jobs and tasks of the same agency, as well as the definition of funds for the establishment and operation of it. In the fourth area, the legislative proposal regulates the establishment of a fund for loans and guarantees of small and medium-sized enterprises by far the largest number of members of the law from 10 to 26, making it certain that it is one of the most important segments of this law. The fifth, lastly, 28th member of this law, is regulated by additional support measures to ensure the establishment of a number of small and medium-sized enterprises. Dear fellow MPs, when this law comes into force, of course, if an agreement is reached in this Parliament and adopted, then those strong programmes recommended by the Ministry of Science and Technology Special Team, headed by Professor Branislav Ivkovic, will be able to apply them uninterruptedly in early 2000. It is known, honourable MPs, that everywhere where the optimal size of production is, the production unit is small, that small and medium-sized enterprises are the most suitable. With the process of entrepreneurship self-employment and the start of its own business and the full individual ingenuity of our new entrepreneurs, the achievement of this law will undoubtedly be of great benefit to our Serbia's further development. The fact that Mr. Ivkovic has left around 700 certified business programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises suggests that he will apply this law, i.e. with a number of small and medium-sized enterprises, there is also the removal of the unbalanced border structure of our economy. This should be taken into account so much earlier because we lack in the existing economic structure a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in industry and other manufacturing activities, which can monitor these large systems and many companies in the processing industry such as chemical and pharmaceutical, and therefore, on the basis of this legislative proposal, they need to start setting up and creating conditions for their development as soon as possible. In the end, let me also talk about Jablanic County and Leskovec, where I come from - it is known that 2,000 tonnes of tobacco is produced in this area, 80 thousand tons of potatoes, 11,000 tons of strawberry and small bony fruit, and that in the Jablanic district it is grown, close to 22,000 hectares, representing 10% vegetable surfaces, 150 thousand tons of various vegetables. This potential, which appears in southern Serbia, which has so far been used only through the freezing process and thus offered to the world, allows, with the creation of medium and small enterprises, to achieve a higher degree of processing of what went on only in a frozen state, now in new forms, such as treatment in candid fruit, then various jams for diabetics, children's food, naturally spread without preservatives, which would allow great progress in producing all products that are in the south. To begin the trend that the government has in the area where I come from, and which has now provided the three programmes that are in place, must be a problem where we from southern Serbia have to work seriously, a problem that we have to hang on to the government around our necks to keep it on those programmes, so that we can have successes down in southern Serbia. Since this is the first and so far the only legal proposal by which adoption could be more seriously launched to stop production and go back into new employment, it seems to me faster, by reviving most of the laws that have been adopted so far, the truth, by the will of the ruling DOS majority. It will be ignored what I've been saying so far, but when your legal proposal comes at the end of the year about small businesses, if, God forbid, there is a transfer, surely our viewers will be able to see and compare how right we were today with this bill before you. Thank you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7092	The word has a folk MP Milorad Mircic, followed by Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7093	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, one of the main or main pre-election promises of DOS, will support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In particular, this is current in the last days when a bile debate is being held on the proposal for a new law on privatisation, where, as one of the main problems, there is a problem of unemployment that will obviously cause the law, or as it is said in a more subtle way, the excess workforce. DOS ministers or DOS representatives go public with a clear concept that this wave of unemployment or excess labour will be amortised by medium and small enterprises, i.e. private initiatives. We are present at a debate on one draft law, and this bill has been sent before to all MPs in this assembly and we, Serbian radicals, in principle, have large objections to this bill, such as whether it is necessary to form agencies in this way, which will be centralistic or which will be mandatory, or binding to membership. It reminds us of a Chamber of Commerce that is one of a series of parasites that is used to the back of the economy, and these agencies would look like such organizations as the Chamber of Commerce. It can be discussed whether the amendments or through the debate, whether agencies should be formed in this way and whether agencies or some form of association of small and medium-sized enterprises are necessary, but a form that is not mandatory. As far as the funds are concerned, there is nothing unclear, and the funds already exist in the Serbian government. In the Serbian government, there is a Fund for the Development of Medium and Small Enterprises, and at the head of the Fund is Prime Minister of Serbia Zoran Djindjic himself, and we listened to him a few weeks ago, while visiting Leskovac (including this culture minister, as he was called, who cursed in front of cameras in Leskovic, Lekovic, or Lecic, it is not important that he sweared as culture minister. Then he got away and said it was from one of his roles. There, a man can't get out of the role. ) It does not matter, the words spoken by the prime minister are quite responsible, he said that the Fund has 10 million marks, that for these 10 million possible corrections, and I apologize if it is not an exact figure, it was five or six weeks ago, that those 10 million marks currently available to the Fund encourage most of the donations of our diaspora, and did not come across the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises, and he mildly stressed as one problem or concerns of the Government why small and medium-sized enterprises are not so interested in it. Now, this fund is already working over that fund, and we have to admit, dear colleagues, that we as a legislative body don't have any control and we don't have any insight. This law in some way proposes and allows the Assembly as a legislative body, by passing this law, to have insight and control over that fund. I guess if there's a defense of this, then someone from DOS's majority will come out and say it's all subject to control, it's all about seeing the MPs, but it's just about stories. We see how the executive authority works, they do what they think they do. Of course, we'll wait until the final account comes to the agenda, and then we'll discuss the issues that have already happened, the financial resources, and the ones that have already been placed. There will be no debate, as DOS prepared to discuss the final account of last year, will be much more correct, if nothing else, a more professional debate, and not as some MPs who ran out yesterday, who were embroiled, for this pay phone, those who ran around Milorad Vucelic, who was president of the parliamentary group, are now playing the opposition. You can't hide it, gentlemen, and don't be shy. You were in the coalition, but silently, you kept it from the people. You from the Democratic Party, and especially the one who gave the jagged speech yesterday, who threatened us, even warned that we had no right, nor will we have the right to deal with politics and to go out for this pay phone. My dear colleague, there's one thing that can't be hidden, and that's stupid and coughing. As far as I can tell, you're not coughing. Therefore, gentlemen, why so much scarcity, what would be normal? That this law has been taken by the Government and has proposed, through its amendments, amendments and amendments to the law or, as usual and in practice, that the basis of the draft of this law be regulated and done as they think it should look like and propose, to go before the Assembly as with its proposal. No one would mind. But heretically discuss from this pay phone and everything that's normal and what's good to deny and speak in advance, that's not right. It's no good, because they suggested these or them, and that's not some argument. You have to get used to it, gentlemen. The only thing that's good, and it's got to boast, is that it's the first time it's made in some way a precedent. The president of the assembly put this proposal on the agenda. Earlier, when it was most of the SPS, it really, honestly couldn't have happened, because there was always a reason why it was rejected. However, it is a step, but a step taken by an individual, in this case the chairman of the congregation. Which is why we're not getting into it, most likely in advance, aware of the fact that most will reject it, that there won't be some bile or heated debate, that it won't, as you keep stressing it, waste time. Secondly, gentlemen, never again from this booth deny what you promised before the election - you promised, not you sitting, in this room, but your leaders, that 6 billion dollars will arrive in Serbia, the moment the regime is removed. (Glass from O.R.: Six and a half) That's what I'm giving you, my colleague, that's what I'm giving you, so let's make it half of you. But being ashamed isn't a sin. You, I suppose, are the most honest ones who thought you'd get financial support from the West. The fact that the West has deceived you, you don't have to hide it, nor should it be your shame. But the fact is, you have to admit that without that help, you can't get Serbia out of the crisis. The fact that you're correcting that number and saying it's more or less, you can do it to us MPs. People, gentlemen, you can't hide. What you're trying to do right now and with this law is one of the manners that you have. You, gentlemen, said in a post-revolutionary period that it was enough for small and medium-sized enterprises to accept the surplus labour force. You've drawn that experience from the experiences of all post-revolutionary periods. And in France, after the revolution, it was promised that the extra labour force would be employed by small and medium-sized enterprises, so when social unrest started, when the street worker left, the workers were arrested in France, they closed down. You're not far from it. You have the same intention. If you can't calm down social dissatisfaction, justifiably, by the people, you won't get arrested. Besides, you confirm it every day. Why don't you take the miner unions now, why don't you take them to the government? You used to run to the mines, bring them drinks, take pictures, say they support you. Now these same miners, dissatisfied, strike. Why don't you go to them? What are you afraid of? What are you ashamed of? If you haven't lied about six billion dollars, what do you have to be afraid of? If you did not agree that you would get Serbia out of the crisis, go ahead, tell them -- well, gentlemen, you lied to them and all those who voted for you. The only solution is to slowly start getting used to one day, and soon, you become an opposition, and only change will be that you will not run after Milorad Vukelić, but after Ivkovic, or someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7094	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7095	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us one of the few comprehensive projects and draft laws, which this assembly has had the opportunity to consider in its work so far. So for the first time we have a law that is comprehensive, comprehensive, and by my humble standards, very good quality. Unfortunately, I have the impression that some MPs from DOS's majority, or have read the bill a long time ago, actually, we have long ago received it in congregation materials, so they have forgotten its contents, and, accordingly, they are discussing and challenging some legal solutions or law in general, or they simply did not want to read it, just because it comes from the SPS and Professor Branislav Ivkovic. There are many reasons for the DOS majority to think carefully about the bill's proposal and make one exception to the previous result of the vote, which we had almost per all points of the agenda, and yet to adopt a law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Why do I think it's good to accept this law? Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing this law solves is that the area that we all think is very important today, that we care about both small and medium-sized enterprises, that this area is regulated and regulated normally and legally. Today, there is no dilemma, all the MPs who talked about it, said that small and medium-sized enterprises are the most flexible, most durable, most adaptable, most adaptable to market changes and conditions of rejuvenation and that they are the most capable of surviving any, and even the most drastic changes, including those such as war conditions and NATO bombings, and that they have the strength to return to business life afterwards and that the state of Serbia has and how great benefits from these businesses. In the light of this law, among other things, it is said that 17% of the social product in this country is being achieved through the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. When we add to this the social product of work within the agricultural sector of 20%, we have a little more than 1/3 of the social product, which is precisely achieved through the business activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. Developed countries around the world have about 2/3 of the social product that is being implemented by activities in the market for small or medium-sized enterprises. And that is exactly the second reason why we, as a modern state, or at least the one we seek, should support a law that regulates the area of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The third reason, which I find very important, is the upcoming privatisation. We have all had the opportunity to read the Privatisation Law proposal, we have seen that it is armed for four years, which means that it is a process, and it is quite certain, there is no doubt in this, that privatisation will bring great problems and bring the necessary need to address the issue of surplus employees, which will inevitably appear after privatisation, especially our large businesses. What small and medium-sized enterprises actually serve, in the context of this law, is quite clear, because it is precisely these small and medium-sized enterprises that need to be absorbed, to accept this surplus that will certainly happen on the basis of privatisation. Those fellow MPs who spoke of the fact that this law was written in a 1945 dictionary or I don't know what year, that it's the rest of some understanding that in our conditions of state-level regulation and planned to carry out economic activity, they're actually in great error, because none of what they were talking about is in the draft of this law. But there are many other solutions, which are very high-quality and that point first and foremost to several important facts -- firstly, this law clearly defines what are small, what are medium-sized, and what are companies where private entrepreneurs are owned. There are clear criteria, and this is the first basis that can be arranged at all, because it is a large number of companies that exist. On the other hand, it is very important to understand that this law will not only encourage existing enterprises that are small and medium-sized, but will also encourage the creation of new small and medium-sized enterprises, which is very important from the aspect of hiring new workers from the Employment Institute list, and we know that there are around 750 000 at this point. In doing so, we also have an unrecognizable surplus of workers in our large companies of about a million and a half people at this point are unemployed. Therefore, it does not seem any more logical than it does to the Government who claims to be responsible, that it is economically and market-oriented, in order to create an annual activity programme in order to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. And I don't see what's so controversial about it, and why some MPs are so keenly pushing for this law not to be passed. Well, which is a bigger and more important task both of these and of any other government than to make such an economic mile and such an ambiance in which everyone will actually have a chance to work and to live in it from their work. What's so controversial about that? Why the fund, which is projected to finance incentives for development and the establishment of new small and medium-sized enterprises, is controversial. The government makes a decision on the establishment of the fund, selects the trust board, manages the fund, and the fund functions essentially as a financial organisation, or, more roughly, as a bank. And now the question can be asked here, those who are against this law, why not start a bank, not a fund. Well, just to get that transitional period of four years and to have interest on the basis of the funds provided by the SME Development Fund, which will be approximately at the level of domicile foreign exchange interest, say, in Germany are between 6% and 7% a year, and not 2.5% a month, as we do with some so-called. The development banks, which are now supposed to be in the position of incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises. The price of 2.5% of foreign exchange capital no single company can bear, but the price of 6% or 7% of the annual capital price can bear both small and medium-sized enterprises. And that's the point. Next, what's important? It is important to understand that even a dinar of these funds is not given in return. On the contrary, the Fund may finance a programme in whole or in part, depending on the quality of the programme, the size of the necessary funds shall be established or developed by such an undertaking and by the power of the arguments and economic position of the products and services to be provided in those undertakings. And I don't see a single reason it's controversial. It is not even intended to give money in any case for the development of these companies, but as a rule, there are sufficient guarantees and we need them both in co-operation with the foreign partner and in the negotiation of domestic markets. And, simply, the fund functions as a bank, issues an appropriate guarantee and helps the relevant company either survive on the market or people who are left without a job get severances that are now, however, reduced compared to the previous time, but also with these severances someone needs to do something. Now, that -- what he needs to do with that money, he needs to be helped by an agency whose establishment is also foreseen by this law. As smart as we think we are, that we know everything and everything, there is still information that could be collected in one place, within the agency, and then distributed to those who are interested in setting up a small or medium-sized enterprise with their own personal means and with the help of credit or guarantee from a fund. And, finally, in the end, since I see time running out, I'd say next. In light of the proposal for this law, it was said that about 300 million dinars were needed to establish the fund I was talking about. From the point of view of the promoter, the moment the 300 million-dollar figure was proposed, that was probably enough because the real statement corresponded to the equivalent of 10 million marks. In this place, I would like to suggest to the promoter and whoever would possibly accept this law that these funds, at the very least, double and be about 600 million, because it seems to me that since October the month that the 30 dinar mark was established to this day of the mark, which is absurd to our opportunities but reality, has devalued. We could have bought anything for 30 dinars in October, but today, for those 30 dinars, we can't buy half the goods we could buy at that moment. Some of them are right here with their heads. According to the inflation rate that was from October to today, the mark would have to be over 50 and maybe even 60ths of which. I don't stand for either of them, but I'm just pointing out that the increase in funds in the fund could lead to faster growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, I think that an economically comprehensive and justifiable part of the funds, as it is said here, is directed from privatisation to this particular fund, as well as to the development fund, rather than to spending as planned by the Republic of Serbia's budget for this year. So, I ask DOS's majority to respect all the reasons we've brought here, to forget that this proposal was submitted by the Socialists. Here, I'm ready to say - okay, the government has proposed this law, but accept it in the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises, in the interest of citizens and finally you as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7096	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7097	When we listen to complaints about the proposal for a law on small and medium-sized enterprises, I must say that it would be good if from a professional point of view to object, not to use purely political arguments that are not currently in use and rhetoric of the SPS MPs, because what we are talking about, we are talking purely from a professional point of view and in order to prove both to you and to the Serbian public, and also to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that this law makes sense. In one we certainly agreed that support for small and medium-sized enterprises is necessary and we also agreed that these small and medium-sized enterprises represent 90% of the perspective of the Republic of Serbia. We also agreed once again that this is the only option for future employment in the Republic of Serbia. We also agreed on the fact that future privatisations, which are statements and representatives of the government, will lead to the dismissal of a number of employees. Then how do you solve the problem? We have offered a solution and the intention is not to draw any political points out of this, but rather to contribute together to making Serbia's citizens better. However, I have the impression just because it stands in prefix - SPS, that's the only reason why this law is not accepted. What can be said when it comes to this law, the government said it would help small and medium-sized enterprises, that it would provide incentives in the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises, that it would support small and medium-sized enterprises. It doesn't stand at all, it's not a fact. What happened these days, that there was support for small and medium-sized enterprises, we had a chance to see -- these are particularly selected enterprises where the only goal is to support people who have been helping in the previous DOS election campaign. Speakers have already talked about aid companies and who have received these credit arrangements. Therefore, we cannot talk in this way about strategic support for the Serbian economy, and especially not in the part where it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises. The objective of the law is to implement the restructuring of the economy. It is very important at this point to see the state of the Serbian economy. It has been violated by years of sanctions, bombings, and what the previous government of the Republic of Serbia has done is to repair the part that was directly attacked, bombed and destroyed. But I don't think everything's done in that area. There is still much to be done in this area, because it is an uninterrupted process. The specific line of these draft laws is the proper allocation of resources. We have had in the last ten years development in this area, but, above all, in the part of the trade and provision of services. There was less expenditure, when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, in the field of innovation, and almost least in the part that is related to agrarian, for agricultural production, because in the previous period we had the growth of large agrocombinates that were strategically supporting agricultural production. In particular, at this very moment, it seems to me, in addition to verbal support, outside of the whole Serbian economy and it is left to itself and to the mercy and mercy of buyers, resellers, various bankers who offer to buy cheap agricultural products, and later to sell them very expensively at the world market. This overarching capacity in certain areas would be reduced to the lowest possible extent by this law. The Fund and the agency provided for in this law would give basic intonation and direction, give priority to production programmes. They would also make sure that, according to geographical areas, the affinities of certain areas, the interests of certain areas, are developed in these areas, and that appropriate forms of production are developed. Already at this moment it is recognizable that in the crow area, and of course with the support of Simpa, has formed a significant part of small and medium-sized enterprises, it is also recognizable that Novi Pazar with its several types of production, alongside the production of jeans, shoe production, etc. It's already been identified in several parts in this direction, but they haven't and have no one to turn to. It's one verse, one irregular capacity allocation. This law would have done enough to allocate capacities more significantly and more quality. When it comes to the fund, it would significantly retain certain dynamics towards banks. I think he'd do a few things for the banks and the bankers. First of all, I'd like to keep both business and program. It seems to me that both they and the programs and companies are left with blackmail and the market at the banks. We have an offer from that area to businesses and private entrepreneurs, but what happens is there are no quality loans. Expensive loans on this market can no longer go through and there is no production that can pay the interest offered by current Serbian banking. I have to point out the fact that she used to be in circulation, and in that debate, we mentioned a few laws. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not support small and medium-sized enterprises in anything. We made those arguments here, I'll just repeat a few. In tax regulations, in the Law on Income Tax of Citizens and in the Company Tax Act, those subsidies provided for as a release for small and medium-sized enterprises, which meant incentives in the tax sense for development, for investment, for creation, for new programmes, were abolished. Under existing regulations, reliefs have been lifted that allowed businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to have the right to tax benefits in the first three years of business. There's no such thing today. The explanation was stupid, certainly nothing. Whoever makes the profit will pay. Of course, it does not count on the start of new production, or the investment, or the lending, or everything necessary in the previous period to give back a part of the funds invested, but the money obtained must immediately be taxed. To say in the end, and to remind myself, there must be one truth, that the momentum of private economy, private entrepreneurship in Serbia, is great. We also have this privatisation to discuss at one of the next sessions. It cannot stop the development of private economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, which in Serbia currently accounts for more than 30% of total production, probably in the achievement of profits, even up to 40%, and that is about 500,000 employees. It's an important and important factor. It can't be allowed to be past the track, I'm on my own, so the state doesn't take care of it. Not to control, not to blackmail, but simply to be a service that will help to properly shape production forms. We have ends in Serbia where there are no small or medium-sized enterprises. There must be programs that, if supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, can do something about it. Simply point to those parts, to keep the citizens of Serbia, to settle and to stay and continue to live there on their hearths. When I said that there was a significant part of the social product in this area, this is what I meant most seriously, but it wasn't properly distributed. This part of the social product in this area is still in the area of services, in the area of trade. So most of it is in this area and smaller in the area of production.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7098	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7099	It says Rističević it's dark. (From O.R.: Time. Here, time, I'll be right there. Finally, I think that the MPs of the DOS majority, as well as the other MPs in this assembly, have the same view of several facts. It is that small and medium-sized enterprises need Serbia, that small and medium-sized enterprises will employ more workers. We also believe that the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the area of production is significant. Therefore, I think that the objection which went as this bill could have been expressed in the form of amendments or in any other suggestion. That's why I personally think it makes sense to support this law and I expect it from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7100	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic, and then by MP Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7101	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group has sent the Assembly a bill to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises to adopt, as a neutral political law. The well-intentioned would take this proposal as a wish for a constructive opposition to help address significant economic problems in a situation where the government does not take any economic action. Our wish was to oblige the government to take active part in encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises by law. If we hadn't missed the topic, it shows today's debate. I am extremely pleased that in today's debate, more DOS deputies took part than in all the debates that have been discussed in the past. This shows that the topic is completely affected. I was pleased to listen to Mr. Svedovic, Mr. Trajkovic and several other MPs, who confirmed our opinion on the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises for Serbia's development. So there was nothing different about the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, about the need to introduce laws to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In the end, we differed when it came to the law. So today we have reached quite a consensus that small and medium-sized enterprises are of great importance for Serbia's further development, that they are of great importance during the time it comes, are of great importance during the transition, and it carries with it the restructuring of the economy. Many large companies will fall into many small businesses, many people without a job will have to leave, i.e. to start small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, we have reached an absolute consensus that small and medium-sized enterprises are our imperative. That's good. We also reached a consensus on the need for a law to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. So we here in the assembly think the same thing. It's amazing who doesn't think the same thing. The Serbian government doesn't think the same. The Serbian government does not feel the same way, because it says - encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is being provided with existing legislation and the new law is not needed. That's what the Serbian government says. A very serious question is being opened that shows that MPs are the ruling majority hostages of the government, because they will not believe what the government is telling them. The government has made it clear and loud -- the law is not necessary, and several DOS deputies are speaking -- the government is preparing the law. So the MPs don't believe what the government is saying, clearly and loudly. Mr. Mijatovic spoke, said Mr. Svetovic, that the government is preparing a law on small and medium-sized enterprises. The government has made it clear and loud that the law is not necessary. An even more dangerous thing that the MP's behaviour points to is the disenfranchisement of parliamentary work. If the MPs are the hostages of the government, if we clearly agree that small and medium-sized enterprises are important, that a law on small and medium-sized enterprises is needed - we cannot negotiate a law. What was the road? If we agree that the required law, if we agree that small businesses are important and important, we open the debate and the MPs of the DOS, participating in the debate, with 150 amendments as we have submitted, or opposition, to laws that were previously in the procedure, amend this law and a real good law. So, the real thing would be if we had opened the debate, if we had improved the law with amendments and given Serbia a good law to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I think it is time, because of Serbian citizens, that MPs of the ruling majority begin to free themselves of the government's captivity. It will show, at least to me, if, in some period ahead of us, perhaps within a month, they force the government to change this position that the existing legal regulations are sufficient to speed up the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and force the government to change the cover on which the signing of professors is. Branislav Ivkovic, and perhaps even this same law return to this assembly for review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7102	The word is given by the People's MP Aleksandar Vukic, and after that, the people's emissary Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that it is an important topic that we are talking about at this point, but I think it would be more important to talk about Kosovo and Metohija at this point, after the adoption of the legal framework of Hans Hekerup, or, as they like to call themselves, so-called. international communities. We adopted a resolution here that tried to stop it. As we all see, we have failed to prevent disastrous solutions against the interests of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. I think it's time, first of all, for the government and for us as MPs, to do something to help the people of Kosovo and Metohija. (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. ) Mr. Risticevic, please do not throw away or shout "theme", because this should be a topic for you, as well as for me, as for everyone else in Serbia. I've only had so much to tell you about it. I'm sorry you're not interested in this at all, but what can I do? It seems to me that the citizens of Serbia are interested. So it seems to me that we should first talk about the overall legal macroeconomic mile, the complete economic environment, when it comes to the adoption and application of such a legal act. In fact, there are things in this law that I could support as a MP, and there are some things that, perhaps, my contemplative abilities don't allow me, I'm not able to fully understand. I don't understand why we yearn every time for some special legal persons outside the government of the Republic of Serbia, as if it would bring them something better or something more, and as if the agencies would represent something more significant than the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself. There is a very intention that I think should interest the government of the Republic of Serbia which should be doing this work much more than it does today. In fact, we in the SRS must first point to the fact that in the global economic mile, there are very bad conditions for the development of further private entrepreneurship, of course, for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. If today in Serbia there are 180,000 and 190.000 shops with more than 520,000 workers, it really shows how important their impact is. But at the same time, after all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has adopted (so I am talking about a package of tax laws, everything that has been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and with what is yet to come to us, and this is the announced Privatisation Act, whose proposal we could read before in the press, is difficult to talk about any incentive measures for the development of our businesses, for the development of our economy in general, and especially for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and for their growth, i.e. to avoid the risk of them remaining with a small economic power, to remain with a low technological level and focus on local markets. Especially when it comes to the fact that mass layoffs of workers are predicted, given the fact that the privatisation minister, Mr Vlahovic says that at least 400,000 workers will have to be fired, and says so - not because of the Privatisation Act, but because of the ineffectiveness of our economic system. It's true, as if none of us knew it, as if they were all stupid before him, and he's Columbus, he's discovered America, he's very smart, and he knows our economy is inefficient, and no one else knew it up to him. We all knew that. That's why we advocated privatisation, but a different privatisation than the one you want to do today. Not a privatization in which everything that we're strategically supposed to belong and stay with this country to give to those who shouldn't. We also admitted that privatisation that made an increase in economic efficiency, and where there wasn't so much living money that you think the state could sell. That's the fundamental difference. About 400,000 unemployed, we should never have thought to speak, as the dead cold and completely serious talk to DOS representatives today, and they don't care where they're going with these 400,000 people, they don't care that they don't have any small or medium-sized enterprises, because they're going to fire workers, because nobody's going to be able to make this kind of tax, contribution and other fiscal taxes to pay into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I'd say it's not a little weird, especially when it's about who we're expected to be and why it's all happening. At the head of this ministry, we have a man from the firm who deals with the financial consulting "Delloyt and Tush". Another man, who is the adviser to the Prime Minister, a certain Dragas or something, is called "Condell", also deals with the assessment of capital. It's not about one, five, 10 or 20 million dinars. It's billions. The question is, how can we encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, their development or any success in the economy? I would not separate myself from this global economic mile, not only not only to separate myself, but especially to talk about what was not said in the election campaign of all political parties, especially those in power. In fact, it has been said that the great economic operators or giants of our economy will finally be able to function and work when a new government is established. I'll read you something, this has arrived on our SRS parliamentary group, you can see it. It came from the Dusts. I'm obliged to read it. "In light of Serbian Prime Minister Djindjic's statement on the 9 May 2001 show that the Company of the Chemical Products Industry - Prahovo is working at full capacity, we are giving the following denials, as workers of IHP - Prahovo." I'm not going to read you everything, but I'll read you just a little bit of detail: "It doesn't matter about the factory's work. IHP - Prahovo has not worked since the DOS member at the head of the factory has failed much more, and their only goal is how and how they will sell us. The contract, which is damaged by the factory, with the Austrian firm, was made by Minister Veselinov. Mr. Tabašević, I imagine, is the man who led the factory, with the help of his few associates, signed a more valuable TPP programme and who was the only one working during sanctions and NATO bombings and supported 2,500 workers and who was the only one who was profitable. As they say, that contract is worth 109 million dollars, and we didn't get anything out of it. IHP workers are bitter at him and insisting on his resignation. The situation is worse than during the Socialists -- and now there's some criticism here at their expense, and then it's said -- but they've also given workers wages, such as -- with delays, but not since five months and it's been working, and now it's a total breakup, as well as other businesses in Serbia. It's only for sale of state property and for workers to stay on the street. "The workers of the factory in Negotina signed in 10.5.2001. I'll multiply that paper for you to get. At the same time, from Majdanpek, since we are messengers of the people, and as messengers of the people...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7104	Mr. Wolf, let's not make information shows here, let's talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7105	I'm just asking for a little attention and to explain to me what was past the subject, or beyond what was on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7106	The debate on the state of any factory, especially if it's not small or medium, really has nothing to do with the topic of the agenda, nor can it contribute to understanding what you need to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7107	I was talking, Mr. President, about the macroeconomic policy of the government, which I was saying was very closely connected and very important for the implementation of influence (or support programme) on small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm surprised you didn't hear that or that you didn't want to understand. I would also like to say further that we, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, think that we should first on a macroeconomic plan to create incomparably different and political and economic conditions and, in particular, legal certainty, that it could be invested in a different way and in a different way for the entire domestic economy to function, especially so-called. Small and medium-sized enterprises, considered most profitable. I'd make a few remarks and differences, and I think the motioner will take those remarks seriously. Talking to them, I pointed out to them the fact that there is no difference here between trade and production. I think that would be necessary, because our priority goal should be to develop production in our country, especially these small and medium-sized enterprises that we talked about. The same way cannot be financed and assisted by the government or the paravallading authority by the importing of certain products, finished products from abroad and those produced on the domestic market, reconciles the needs of the domestic market and at the same time exports abroad. That's what this is about, and it's closely related to what the citizens of Majdanpek have sent us, who have told us the next thing. Yesterday, on Radio BBC from London (Croatian-language show, I don't know what their language is) it was reported that in this year, Croatia had so much exports to Yugoslavia, that it took Yugoslavia from the last to the seventh place in which the Croatian economy exports. Obviously, the DOS government is doing very well for the Croatian state instead of our export to speed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7108	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7109	I'd like to ask you for a little more attention, I won't be long. Be patient for another minute. I'd better read you this news, because there's some truth in this news, unlike the news you broadcast every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7110	Let's hear Mr. Wolf listen to Deutsche Welle. Twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7111	I would only ask you, Mr. President, that with your wits and jokes, you don't have to and don't try to disturb me, because it's fairer and better to interrupt me and take away my word than to act that way. Come and get me out of here, you guys, come and get me out of here, 'cause you got a lot of guts to throw. Come try, come try to do it and pay attention to your vocabulary and your behavior. Behave yourself a little. I would say in the end, since some have talked here about co-operation with some other countries, since they have spoken with a lack of respect for co-operation with the Arab world countries, Russia, Belarus, I will only tell them one example, since I have personally convinced myself that I will end up with this, which is that we have recently stayed in Iraq and only one of our companies, the Energy Project, signed a contract with the Iraqi state of $75 million to build the Al Shamal dam not far from Mosul. You don't know where he is, like you don't know the other thing, that you're working with or where you're traveling with. That 75 million dollars, it's just one job for one company, much more than a complete foreign trade exchange with your America and with those who bombed our country and who destroyed it. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7112	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7113	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really sorry, I had to take this call, and it was a violation of Rule 98. We started talking about Iraq, so we got to the French Revolution, so we got to the mine. What you're talking about now, you've been talking while you've been in power, and it's been really tragic. Now that you're in opposition and you're saying the same thing, it's really, fortunately just comical.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7114	Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7115	It would be good if we had heard any argument or heard anything about the Rules of Procedure and what was injured in it. But we haven't heard, except the story of someone telling the same story. Of course, what you expected, you didn't think that any policy would change from today to tomorrow as you might be. It doesn't occur to us. We use arguments and try to convince you of the truthfulness of our arguments, and I didn't notice, if you want any smiles, or even a mockery of you, or of anyone else in this room, except the fearsome anxiety and the desire to get off the phone as soon as possible so you don't get told anything else that's true about your authority or anything else. To supplement that, I'll read you just one more thing, as far as small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned. Presents have arrived today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it seems to me, all the MPs have arrived. We in the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group received that gift. It's about books. It's about small and medium-sized enterprises, Mr. President, that you have that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7116	This is a replica, you can do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7117	I try to speak with reason and wisdom. Now, whether it's true or not, voters will judge, not you. So, the Union of the Union of Serbia, the Union of Graphicians, publishers, informers, documentaries and cinematographers gives you a book on which taxes are paid under the law passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose MP you are. Congratulations. Of course, this is made up ironically, we have been given valuable books, it seems to me to all MPs and all the MPs, but I only have to say to these people that the Serbian Radical Party is not responsible for this tax, because there were amendments and Professor Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic, which the parliamentary majority did not accept. We thank them for the books, we will read them, and have them send the requirements to the DOS, not to the Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7118	The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7119	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when the government rejected this law on small and medium-sized enterprises, it seems to me that not all circumstances, which this matter regulates, are considered. Whether it was done on purpose or by accident, I don't know, but we'll see. The fact is that the largest number of small and medium-sized enterprises are privately owned, that even because of the constant struggle for survival on the market, it was very quick to adapt to market conditions and therefore the reasons for their successful functioning should be sought. This should also look for the reasons when breaking through the wall of the embargo and sanctions imposed on us in 1992. It was then that these companies suffered the greatest burden of sanctions, in supplying the market with basic life supplies and in imports of energy and raw materials for domestic industry and the population. However, it should also be taken into account that no matter how successful it was in its work, it has so far acted in a way that has not been organized, without any specific plan, which has led, not rarely, to the collapse of these companies or has suffered significant material damage. Now, when we are expected to be privatised by DOS, by recognition and by government members, a large number of fired workers are waiting for us. Thus, it is assumed that a large number of these redundancies will establish independent trade, small enterprises, and even stock companies, with partial or full responsibility. By doing so, the chaos in the work of these companies will be even greater by not adopting this law. In any case, this will lead to major material damage in these companies, to the closure and new start-ups and companies that already exist. Small and medium-sized enterprises are extremely important for the functioning of every economy, including ours. There are several reasons why: 1) employment of a large number of workers; 2) not very little participation in the overall social product, as well as a good part of participation in the budget fill, even Mr Djelic's budget; 3) although they do not have individual large, material and technical resources, they are able to destroy the monopoly position of large economic systems, thus contributing to the fight against inflation. With all this in mind, it is not clear why the government and the ruling majority in this House do not accept this law because of the chaos that lies ahead for us in the work of these companies. It seems to me that this government and DOS do not care at all about seducing order in this matter, and the reason may be that, because of the failure of such a law, most small and medium-sized enterprises should thus pave the way for their businesses, i.e. individual ministers in this government. Today, the Lutra was mentioned, or perhaps "Small-Production", that it is the owner of the company and the godfather of the prime minister, Mr Djindjic. Or perhaps we should pave the way for the Western bosses of DOS who aim to fight here in this market as monopolies, eager for profit, which is in no way in the interest of our citizens. Finally, to tell a folk MP who is praying for members of the Serbian Radical Party to God, since I hear he was already in Braničevski County in Žabari and Mali Crnic, he does not remember that place, he did not say it well, and he talked about schools and how he dealt with us and the other ruling majority, the former majority -- why he did not stop by the municipality of Kučevo, in a village called Voluja. It's halfway from Pogorec to Kučev, if you were, you know, in that elementary school, in that place, the term of the school's current director recently expired. In accordance with the law, the competition is called. Old school principal and new candidate signed up. Because of the democracy that is being introduced in this society, it has been decided not to vote on the election of a new director, not only the school's advice, but the entire working collective of that school. Of the 57 members of that collective and members of the school council, 54 came to the vote. Of the 54 for the old director, 54 voted. The DOS voted zero. When the results of the competition were obtained under the law, even in self-government, but the law is still (when you make the second one, report), Mr. Minister of Education Gašo Knezevic abolished the results of the competition and appointed the performer of the duty, or DOS candidate. In doing so, he didn't even consider 300...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7120	Mr. Arsic, this isn't a press conference, please. I don't mind, but still.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7121	... Whose children go to that school, and they've sent a petition to the Minister not to, and that's why I'm telling you, sir, if it's democracy, it's an honor to you, and if that's your turn, it's an honor. So you better pray to God for you and this government. God may forgive you, but the people will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7122	The word has a people's... You didn't mention... It's mentioned in function, if you insist.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7123	The president is right, according to the Rules of Procedure, whether or not I have the right to reply. Today, however, five or six radicals mentioned me, but they're massively avoiding saying last name. So I thank the President for allowing me these three minutes to respond. Look at the ID of these people who talk about this, today it's on the agenda of the law on small and medium-sized enterprises. A man comes out and says, "He doesn't have hair." What does that have to do with this law? A man comes out, he says -- he ordered this or what, a big Thursday, it's been a month. What does this have to do with small and medium-sized enterprises, and here we are full of our undemocracy; they have solutions, and we will not accept. A man comes out, puts the subject on the agenda - school principals. Maybe there's a problem. The biggest problems are that your fans are losing. Your fans can't last a year after your defeats, but they're jumping right over to accept a ticket to this train called DOS. We're not happy that you're crossing us, because that's what it says about our value, about our size. It tells us about our journey, people believe what DOS is doing, people are interested in the policy we conduct. When it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, I wish we had talked about small and medium-sized enterprises in 1990. I would, indeed, celebrate Mr. Ivkovic today, that in 1991 or 1992 he put this topic on the agenda - small and large enterprises. This is a great topic. What was the theme then? Then there was the subject of a small and large accident, small and large victims, then there was a theme -- if it was the Strpts, it was the small victims, if there were so many people drowned in the Danube that you submerged, they were the small victims. If it's Srebrenica, then they're bigger victims. Don't call us anytime. We kept quiet for three months. We'll be quiet again for three months, but that doesn't mean we're giving you what you're doing right now. It's a good thing you're going after the right things. It's good to talk about small and large enterprises. We give you a transitional assessment for this; it's not enough to get our consent today to vote for that law, but you get support in terms of what I say - go on, you start learning real topics, real conversations, in this assembly we talk about tax and economics. As for those who can't fit into this pattern yet, you can't answer every evil woman. If every evil woman answered, he'd never get to the finish line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7124	The word has a folk MP, Ljubomir Kragovic, and, last registered speaker, Hranislav Peric. What about the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7125	Mr. President, I assume you already know which member of the Rules of Procedure it is, but that application applies directly to you. And you're just as equal as we are here, and don't, as long as someone's talking, no matter what he says, and what he's banging at this pay phone, don't gesture, spread your hands. That you have internal problems, within the coalition, don't, and you must behave in the Rules of Procedure. If you're not smart about this, then take care of it on the parliamentary group, and not let your movements or gestures know that not only do you agree with the speaker, but that speaker doesn't exactly care what he says. Therefore, act like all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7126	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7127	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one substance, which is currently undefined and not legally defined, is now on the agenda, and this is the bill on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The aim of this bill is to stimulate the development of these small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as private entrepreneurship in general. The reasons for this bill are multiple. One of the main reasons is that we know that the trend in the development of these companies is to increase their number, from one figure of 20,000 enterprises in 1990, and today about 180,000, with 190.000 private businesses, which employ about 520,000 workers. The fact is, this problem needs to be addressed. What is most important is to pass one Bill on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, to regulate a very large number of unemployed people, to employ a very large number of professionals, who do not currently have their jobs, as well as to finally launch the momentum necessary for the development of each country, for the development of the economy, and for the very state of Serbia. The need for the adoption of such a legal project is the very announcement of the adoption of the privatisation law, which will be in the next meeting of this Parliament, and at the announcement of Minister Vlahovic, we expect that more than 400,000 workers will be out of work and that you will have to take these workers out of the social programme. I think the best social programme is one incentive to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, because I am convinced that none of these workers who remain because of the law on privatization on the street will be satisfied if they are given any social or humanitarian assistance, but simply, the possibility of employment will be that intention he wants. The possibility of employment is currently only through the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The idea of this bill is for the state to stand behind this proposal to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Why the state -- because our banks are currently incompetent, at such a level that they cannot finance the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The state can, and the sea, because she's the only one who's capable of carrying out that credit and interest policy. It means that it places certain funds, which will be favourable and will stimulate our citizens to open small and medium-sized enterprises. With this project, normally, there is development in the economy, in agriculture, there is development, both in the country and in the city. The conditions are much worse today than before, because sanctions have been lifted, and what the Government needs to prescribe is to finance those programmes that are export-oriented, those programmes that will deal with the production of healthy food or those programs where import products will be replaced, meaning the production of those products, those components that we have to import today. In particular, around this bill, it is only necessary to clearly define company status and to decentralise these agencies and funds, so that the game is more equal. But there is one big problem here, which is the problem of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which does not want such a legislative proposal to deliver to the MPs for consideration, moreover, says that existing legal solutions regulate this matter. We are witnessing that yesterday's and today's newspapers have published a list of companies, private ones, that participated in some kind of means, and we see that these are enterprises that are close to the government of the Republic of Serbia, moreover, owned by themselves by members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, it continues with one fatal practice, with one practice that whoever is in government has the right to certain means. One of the DOS MPs said the government is the same as the previous one, but I don't think that's true, that this government is even worse than the previous government and that this is the worst thing that could have happened to the state of Serbia. Otherwise, how do you interpret the private company of the vice-president of the government getting some funding, to be a priority to this particular firm of his? What I want to stress is the commitment of the state. It is not just an obligation for the state to take taxes and burdens, to abolish existing rights, reliefs, benefits that have been like stimulation for the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises, but it is its obligation and to help develop small and medium-sized enterprises. Why doesn't the government accept this proposal, why isn't it dealing with this problem at all? Because it's probably the government's idea to bring those big businesses to one smaller level, to the level of medium, small, or enterprises that want to destroy and put their paws on everything they can in the state of Serbia. There was talk here and cooperation, and I'd just like to point out, and bet that you'll be able to make transfers in future, as far as production is concerned, as far as imports, exports are concerned, only with those countries that I'm about to name now, which are Russia, Belarus, Iraq, that you'll be able to get a job there, and I'm convinced you won't be able to do anything in Germany or France, let alone in America. And what's characteristic of today's session is that one repeater, head of the DOS parliamentary group, is today talking about deans, rectors, professors and academics, and I think -- which is a lot, a lot, even if it's from the head of the DOS Parliament club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7128	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7129	We lie to each other all day, at least we don't lie to the end. Article 80, 113, 114 - quorum, we do not have all day. But, shut up, you came from the fair now... You haven't been all day. (He speaks to an MP whose comment from the O.R. has not been heard. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7130	Don't throw it away, people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7131	We don't have a quorum, and we have too many cards in the tables. At least at the end of the day, if we lie all day, a little honesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7132	Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. He has the word of the People's MP, Hranislav Peric, and after him Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is on the agenda of a draft law on small and medium-sized enterprises, proposed by the head of the SPS Parliament Club, Mr Bane Ivkovic. His only mistake is, since there's no amendment, which is proposed by the Socialist. Is this just a criterion not to accept this law? As MPs of the National Assembly, I think we should assess whether Serbia needs this law or not. If we don't have to, let's say what's wrong with him and what's wrong with him. If the law is necessary, we have left room for you to correct it through the amendments, add, which we would appreciate to you, unlike you when it comes to our amendments. The only thing that works and works in this country is small and medium-sized enterprises. Because only small and medium-sized enterprises full of budgets, government registers and funds. If that only works, let's not put it out, that's what's good through various taxes and taxes stop. If we get help, what you promised - money from abroad, let us invest it in small and medium-sized enterprises. Because we'd get multiple benefits and that-- we'd have someone to charge taxes on. First, money would fertilize and help further development. They'd hire the unemployed. We could also form small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas. We would stop the migration of the population from the village to the city. We wouldn't live most of our lives from other people's help and donations, but from our own work. We could live from our work very quickly. Don't throw away one law just because the government hasn't prepared its proposal. We were just trying to help. Because we know that the government is busy and there are a lot of more pressing jobs about preparing the tax laws. She is busy resolving the Kosovo issue, concerning Bujanovac, on the issue of Montenegro, on the issue of Vojvodina, on the co-operation law with The Hague tribunal. The government is busy because it deals with us and past times. We understand why you don't accept this law. Because it doesn't fit the privatisation and it doesn't match the foreign bosses who intend to buy our businesses for small money. Since the opposition claims that these are non-serious issues and that we are constantly withdrawing some points and laws from the agenda, I propose and remind you, President, that the first point of the next session be about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. And, especially after Mr. Hekerup's decision, we Socialists are asking that the state of Serbia and relations in the Federation be opened here in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-17-0.u7134	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do you agree that we continue to work on Monday? I'm begging you. We've got more registered speakers. Do me a favor. They're in agreement. I'll see you Monday at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I call on you to pay our respects to the two Yugoslav Army captains - Velisa Kijanovic, who also died in Djurko Bojovic, who succumbed to the wounds sustained in the attack of Albanian terrorists on members of the Yugoslav Army in southern Serbia. According to official records, 131 MPs attend today's session. Please determine if we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the absence has been reported by the following MPs: Dusan Golubović, Dragoljub Vojnović, Milutin Svetović, Mihajlo Marković, Pal Shandor, Dragan Janjic, Laslo Torde, Istvan Išpanovic, Zivnica Predojev, Vojkan Tomić, Mihajlo Jagodić, Borisvoje Mijatović, Branko Beševic, Velimir Živojnović, Dragor Hiber, Anton Biaci and Mujo Muković. The delay was reported by Olga Kircanski and George Mamula. In the morning they are absent: Aleksandar Vatovic, Predrag Stojanovic and Dragan Milentijevic, afternoon - Radomir Naumov. I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 22nd point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON SUPPORT FOR THE DURING OF SMALL EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENTS (addition) The word has a People's MP Borislav Pelevic and then a National MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
