ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4423	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. We would like to inform you that a tragically deceased member of the MUP, Aleksandar Petrovic, was in a terrorist attack in Pristina. Please pay our respects for a minute of silence. Praise him. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 135 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Bojana Alexic, Jožefu Kassi, Velimir Živojinović, Goran Ciric, Branko Besevic, Borvoju Mijatovic, Teodori Vlahović, Dusan Cvetkovic, Jovana Todorovic, Jelena Milenković, Milan Markovic, Nedi Arnerić, Zoran Boskovic, Dragor Hiber (before noon), Ivan Andric (before noon), SrdjanSikimimic, Milos Radivojčević, Nadi Kolundžija, Branko Pavlovic and the delay was announced by Pal Šandor. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Local Self-Government(s) I remind you that we are at yesterday's session at the moment of voting on the amendment of the National MPs Dragoljub Stamenković and Goran Cvetanović to Article 7. The bill, which was proposed to amend Article 63 of the Law, found that there was no quorum for work, so a break was set after which there was also no quorum, so the session was interrupted. We are now continuing our work by voting on the amendment of the National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic to Article 7. The draft law, which was proposed to amend Article 63 of the Law. (Lowers from the O.R.: Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Uh, what's the matter with you, who's first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4424	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 79 says how much we work. I suggest we work till 11:00 today, since we've been working all night and since we're very tired... That you're not ashamed to vote to work and go home. The Serbian Parliament is here, not at home. In September and December, an elemental accident occurred to Serbia, which is you DOS, and the elemental disasters never lasted very long, so neither will you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4425	So we have a motion to put to the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4426	Mr. Chairman, you've injured Article 134. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which reads: If the draft law is adopted in principle, the National Assembly shall move on to a search in particular and a decision on amendments. Don't count this on me in time, I'm gonna need a little more. The debate shall be held in particular by the members to whom the amendments are submitted and the amendments proposing the introduction of new provisions, and may be discussed by the applicant of the amendment, i.e. the one proposing the amendment by several MPs, the authorised representative of those Members of Parliament, the legislator of the act, the rapporteur of the committee, the president or representative of the parliamentary group, the authorised representative of the Government, if the Government is not a proposing, and at one time, for a maximum period of five minutes. You, Mr. Chairman, even though you knew that with the long pipes outside the Assembly building, the police kept the session going and skipped the article 4 on which I have the amendment, on which I spent days and nights writing and preparing it. You didn't allow me to explain that amendment here, you might have been accepted (from the O.R. - Safe), so I'm asking you to go back to where you broke the Rules of Procedure and get back to the debate as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4427	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4428	I know you skipped some home-school classes, the theoretical ones, but for the practicals, it's not too late. I'm serious, and you can do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4429	We'll decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4430	What are you going to decide, give me your word to explain the amendment to Article 4 (from the hall - go to place).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4431	We'll decide on your objection that the Rules of Procedure have been broken. If you're done, please leave the pay phone and move on to a decision on your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4432	I'll still explain my amendment, and then you can vote whether or not you'll accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4433	You still won't be able to do it, until we decide on the complaint you raised about the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you to leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am an MP of the SRS...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4435	Mr. Janjic, I take your word. Please leave the pay phone. Mr. Janjic, for the second time I warn you that you are bound by the Rules of Procedure to leave the pay phone. (Employer Janjic still stands behind the pay phone.) ) I propose to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Article 103, make a decision on the distance measure of Mr Janjic from this session When we decide on this, then we will, please, the MPs to plead on this. [[Applause]] (Employee Tomislav Nikolic from the city: according to the Rules of Procedure. You'll get your word before the vote? Here you go. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4436	Mr. President, you hurt the Rules of Procedure when you gave the measure of confiscation to the People's Messenger Janjic, because the measure of confiscation of words is expressed after two warnings have been made. If you are already reading the Rules of Procedure, read Article 102, paragraph 1, which reads: the measure of confiscation of words is expressed to the MP who has previously been given two warnings. You have not uttered any warning to the Messenger of the people. The fact that you're talking to MPs like a grandmother over the board using that microphone that's at your service, that's not the kind of behavior that suits the president of the assembly. The President of the Assembly must point out, Mr. MP, I give you my first warning, so, Mr. MP, for you every MP is a gentleman, I give you a second warning, and then I take away the words. You're taking the weight of taking the words right now. You could've taken the distance from the O.R. right away. That looks like you. That's why I'm asking you to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Then we'll do our job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4437	A measure of distance from the session can be made without previously given warnings, and you know that, it also stands in the Rules of Procedure. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Do you read the Rules of Procedure and whether the secretary reads the Rules of Procedure, I guess one is in charge of reading. ) Article 103 paragraph 2: The distance measure from the sitting may be given to the MP and without previously stated measures in the event of a physical attack or other similar procedure jeopardising the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session in the building of the National Assembly. (Employer Vojislav Seselj from the city: E what a fool you are). I didn't even apply it, I'm just saying it's possible to suggest that measure. If this is how we solve the problem. (Tomislav Nikolic from the site: it has only just come into existence) I see Mr. Janjic more behind the pay phone, and I think we've solved the problem in this moderate and compromise way. And you're asking me to put your proposal to the vote? Here, I will put on the vote first your proposal that the Rules of Procedure have been broken in the part which determines that it is necessary to stress specifically that the warnings have been made. For 44, against 135, there were no abstentions, there was no vote 14 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has estimated that there has been no violations of the Rules of Procedure, as suggested by Mr Nikolic. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4438	The president of the National Assembly has a secretary who is subject to the people's saying, "not a lip ass to green grass." That's exactly what the secretary is saying, because he's just looking to get rid of this session, as well as all the previous ones. However, it will not go as easily as you from DOS, if you have won the term of office of 176 MPs by chance, you will be as warned from this pay phone today as any other day that you cannot do with radicals as well. Serbian radicals today wear yellow ribbons because we, under NATO's DOS rule, feel like Jews during World War II under Hitler's fascist rule. (The President: I give you the first warning because you do not speak of what is on the agenda. ) What I asked you to say refers to article 81 and your finding that you invited government representatives to attend this session. You should know, Mr. Martian, that the next item of the agenda is to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, that there is no unfortunate Vlad Batic. Probably somewhere with a woman's stocking running around Belgrade head and trying to do, with a gang of his criminals, work to the end. (President: Mrs Jovanovic, for the second time I warn you to talk about the Rules of Procedure. Remind me as many times as you want. You won't be able to stop me from telling you what you are and warning you that you can't do that to us. I don't know what you're going to do now in a situation where we tell you the truth, when all citizens know it and when citizens are aware that the worse authorities in Serbia were not DOS authorities. So, you now need to explain to us where Vladan Batic is, where that Mickey Mouse from Eurodiznyland from Paris, who aerated here, your Minister of Finance and Economy, is, where these great experts of yours are.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-19-0.u4439	Mrs. Jovanovic, I take your word. I'm asking you to leave the pay phone because you've brought out everything you wanted. I propose to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Article 103, we bring a measure of distance from the session of Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. Please plead. For 132 against 44, the abstentions were not voted 17 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has brought a measure of distance from the session of Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I ask the MP to, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, get out of the room. I'm taking a break as long as it takes the security service to apply order provisions in the National Assembly. [[After break - 11.25 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the break we had, a meeting was held with the presidents of the parliamentary groups at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We agreed to stop today's session, to continue work tomorrow at 10 o'clock, in the hope that there will be a problem, regardless of the circumstances that have followed what was happening in the National Assembly, we will manage to resolve it in an agreed manner and in a manner appropriate to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please gather here tomorrow at ten o'clock and we must continue our work. Thank you.
