ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 130 MPs attend today's session. Please confirm the quorum. I find there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Miodrag Stamenković, Dusan Petkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Jožef Kasa, Atila Juhas, Dusan Golubović, Zoran Boskovic, Branislav Grubački, Vladan Jovičić, Bosko Ristic, Veselin Jankovic, Vojislav Doshen. Just before noon: Dragan Vukšić, Branko Gligorić and Neda Arneric. The delay was announced by Boris Karaičić and Veselin Pavicevic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, which was called at the request of a group of 106 MPs of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, acting in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 159 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Sixth Extraordinary Session with the established agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, the following Dn e n i d: 1. The proposal for a conclusion on the declaration of "Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija", which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, reminds you that a special session of the National Assembly to discuss the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, following the end of the Second Session of the First Regular Session in 2001, is being convened, on the basis of a proposal for a document to be the basis for discussion and decision-making, which will be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in co-operation with the Federal Government. In line with these agreements, I called for a session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session in 2001 immediately after the proposal for a conclusion submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the request of an authorised promoter to convene the meeting. That is why I called this session within a short period of seven days, which I am obliged to give under Article 78(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE "STRUMENTAL FRAMEWORK FOR COURT OF COST AND METOCHIA" You have received a proposal for a conclusion, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the text "Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija" and information on the announced elections and the Constitutional Framework. Given the importance of issues which are the subject of today's session, and in order to work more efficiently and achieve a single position, on the basis of a previously agreed agreement with representatives of the parliamentary groups and the proposals and suggestions that I have received, I suggest that today we work in the following way: - that the National Assembly educates a special working group that would follow the course of the debate and propose any amendments and additions to the text of the proposal for a conclusion, on which the National Assembly would declare itself. - that the working group is made up of a representative of the government, the president of the National Assembly and representatives of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 144, no one, abstentioned one, voted 15, a total of 160 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Before I open a single search, I'd just like to suggest something. In consultation with representatives of parliamentary groups, I came to the conclusion that the text proposed by the Government would be a few changes, and above all, in relation to points 1 and 6 and 7. That's why I'm asking you to keep that in mind. This highlights the biggest objections. Within the framework of this working group, which has been formed and with full agreement from all party representatives in the working group, and of course with the participation of the government's representatives, there will be a few changes in the text that I have cited. It results in a unique search of the proposal for a conclusion. Does the Prime Minister, Dr Zoran Djindjic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8033	Dear People's MPs, I will briefly express the basic views of the conclusions reached jointly by the Federal and the Republic Government at a joint meeting held on 23 May 2001. I will try not to repeat what was already said at the previous session of the National Assembly, which also referred to the same subject. I think it's important that we determine two things. First, as we adopt our views, procedures, in which way we establish a common policy, and taking care of all the authorised participants in the process. The second is what opportunities are and what our interests are and how we can implement them, and taking into account then broader frameworks, and above all international ones. Unfortunately, with all the ambiguities that exist about the status of Kosovo and Metohija, there are also a lot of ambiguities and overlaps over the authority of our authorities and at all the competences of those political and other entities that have received certain powers or should have certain powers to act in solving this problem. So in addition to the Republic Government, which would be a natural structure, including all the ministries and follow-up services, we also have a federal government. There is no official document, no body of our state, that would put Kosovo and Metohija in the jurisdiction of Yugoslavia. Kosovo and Metohija are the provinces according to our Constitution and according to all official political and legal documents, it is within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, but during the Rambuje negotiations and based above all on international resolutions, especially the most important 1244, the mention of Serbia in this context has been avoided, Yugoslavia has been mentioned. When it comes to sovereignty, territorial inviolability, it is said of Yugoslavia, it is not about Serbia. This is practically, on the one hand, not so bad, because another instance is involved, which is the federal government, actually suggests that Kosovo and Metohija may be something between Serbia and Yugoslavia. It's not according to our Constitution, nor is it our political will. It's a fact we've found and it's a fact we have to respect. A committee, a special committee dealing with Kosovo and Metohija, was established at the federal level. We have great efforts to make it from a federal level that doesn't have operational structures, so, first of all, in those areas that matter -- health care, education, various kinds of social activities -- we act. We should include the ministries in the work of that committee that's federal. The third or fourth elements are organised Serbs, who have their structures on Kosovo and Metohija, whose will must be respected and which we must include in the decision-making process. When we talk about the policy that we need to run, we need to take care of it, and we need to include all these elements in that concept. So, apart from the Republic Assembly and the Government as its authority, also the federal government, the committee as the authority and the federal government and the Serb organisation from Kosovo and Metohija, which has several. But they seem to be approaching one common position and platform. Our intention and effort to make this document as information was to find the smallest common denominator between all these levels and to look at what would not divide Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, but what they could support. The fact that this proposal was quite reduced was the result of everyone behind it. So something more than that and more concrete than that would probably cause discussions and different attitudes, and the least we need right now is to have a different approach to this problem. That's why it's better to be less, but unique and firm than more, and that there are a lot of positions and that there's even some kind of dispute. That's what the procedure refers to. We had one meeting at the Federation Palace with representatives of almost all Serb organisations from Kosovo and Metohija, and afterwards we had a joint meeting of both governments. This document is the result of both meetings. As for the wider situation, it's also not easy to describe, we have one level that is nominal, constitutional, legal, and we have a level that is factual. I have already mentioned that at this nominal, constitutional level, practically everything speaks of Yugoslavia's sovereignty where Serbia should talk about sovereignty, because according to our Constitution, federally, Serbia is a state and has its state sovereignty. On the other hand, if you see what's happening in the last few days, this temporary constitutional framework is even intruding into the vaguely defined sovereignty of Yugoslavia. So we can't even at that legal, constitutional level, which is pretty empty, because it doesn't meet the political content and all those who have advocated our sovereignty over this territory actually participate in the adoption of these constitutional frameworks. So it's not even easy to manage at that level. It's not easy to run one policy that's realistic. We are talking about a de facto state, then there is no clear state, because the international community has taken responsibility for Kosovo and Metohija, but in a large part of everyday life, it leaves that responsibility to Albanian groups, political, criminal, various others, so the question to what extent does the international community do so consciously, and to what extent it does so because it is unable to assume its competences as given by Resolution 1244. But for the start of our debate here, I think it's important to keep in mind that things aren't so clean and that they're not clear, that we can't, on the basis of a pure equation, pull some resultant and say, "This is our interest and we need to follow it and carry it out." After long discussions, we, together with Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, have come to the conclusion that right now it is in our interest to seek a consistent implementation of international resolutions that would clarify these issues of sovereignty and the issue of international organisations' competence. That's why our position is very strong, because we defend the strongest document that currently exists, and as far as the subject is concerned, it's from the most authoritative organization in the world, which is the Security Council, we defend it against those who brought it. It is a strong political position. It is becoming effective if we succeed in clarifying these unclear positions that I have cited, which means that we determine exactly what it means to defend sovereignty, which means that Yugoslavia is sovereign, which means that Kosovo is part of our country. Could it mean that it is excluded from the legal system, from the security systems, from the economic system, and that sovereignty still exists. On the other hand, what it means is that the international community has the authority to protect the peace and security of citizens, to implement Resolution 1244. It is not a simple job because you can imagine that people who need to be responsible and competent in a complicated situation, which are representatives of the international community, are avoiding clear answers to these questions. But it is our task to try to reduce this "grey zone" of uncertainty with a decisive diplomatic and political action and to try to bring things to their source, root, to the text of Resolution 1244. So much is our proposal to take this resolution 1244 as a temporary, top-notch political decision regarding Kosovo's status and the Metohija and the policy to be led there and to assess all other events and decisions in this regard. We also assessed the requirement for elections in November this year and the adoption of a provisional constitutional framework for temporary self-government. Our interpretation is that part of the resolution 1244 has been selectively drawn from itself, which is the obligation of international authorities in Kosovo and Metohija to establish temporary institutions. That part was pulled out and put first, instead of the one that really stands first, which is to ensure normal life and bring back the expelled faces. Only in third place is it when these two conditions are met, creating institutional conditions for some common life in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why we say, before the elections are discussed, we demand that those first two conditions behind which the international community has stood. It's a political position. I don't think much more of it in a political sense is possible. I would ask you that if someone thinks that something else is possible, to say in what way is possible, but to try and join us as the Assembly and as the Government of the Republic of Serbia in a field of tactics that is not yet exhausted. That resolution gives us space to make this field as much effect as possible, not to set some new conditions that it may be difficult for us. To do what is possible, not to set impossible goals and then not to achieve what is not possible, but to concentrate on defining these possible goals and trying to achieve them. The second topic I want to highlight is what the rest of Serbia and what the Serbian government does daily for our people and for our interests in Kosovo and Metohija. It's doing a lot, no matter how much you can't see it. The problem is big and it would take a lot more to see some progress. The Republic of Serbia is funding practically 28,000 people from Kosovo and Metohija in the functions they had on the day they had to leave Kosovo and Metohija by force. That is, if we also consider members of their families, that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is practically financed by 100,000 people. We do this consciously, most of these people are not in Kosovo and Metohija. Now there's one big job, to define for each individual where he is, where he could best be in office and in his job, but also in the function of that place where he's from. If he's somewhere like a refugee or banished to King's or Kragujevac, and there's a need for him in Mitrovica or Zubino's stream, whether we should talk to him and try to get him there or, if he doesn't, find someone else who agrees. In any case, as the government that took place, we have been confronted with the fact that a large number of people have been paid to do jobs that are not done, but we have made a decision not to change it without a deep analysis and to this day we haven't changed it. Also, as the Republic of Serbia, we finance this temporary executive council that the Serbian Parliament has set up, and it is practically, together with the Public Enterprise Panoram, over 320 people, which makes up about eight million dinars a month, and we know that the work of that body does not really deserve such a large degree of funding. But maybe even from here, we should come up with a suggestion of what to do, whether to break down or change the composition of that council, that it also gets some new responsibilities, in line with the new situation. In any case, we as a government are very open to all concrete and constructive suggestions, how can we support those Serbs who live there, how can the state of Serbia be present with all the restrictions that exist today? We, like the state of Serbia, according to Resolution 1244 and even under that prepared agreement in Rambujeu, which our side agreed to, do not have significant powers in Kosovo and Metohija. When we enter Kosovo and Metohija, we are practically treated as private persons. Only federal authorities are partners with international organisations. The other thing that I end up with is that the improved international position of our country makes it possible, and we insist that, with the SR Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, an official international contract is made and that those forces that are present in Kosovo are not there as some representatives of the international community with an unlimited mandate, but based on some agreement between our country and them, to try to involve our country in this relationship and that what we are doing on other plans, which is establishing partnership with the democratic world, to ask that we also respect it in such a crisis situation as Kosovo and Metohija. Our diplomacy is working on it, and I think that this chance exists and that our position in Kosovo and Metohija would be greatly strengthened if we, as a state, and through international recognition and through some kind of international treaty, were verified, and that we could occasionally install some of our services and set up some of our official offices in Kosovo and Metohija and gradually return as a country from where we were forced into force two years ago. It's the current state of things. I think it's all in one process, that it's critical for us this summer, in terms of testing whether one concentrated pressure from the federal and republican governments, Serbs from Kosovo, is possible to force the return of a number of exiled, exiled persons. If there are resistances in the international community, if there are local resistances, then I think we will welcome autumn with a major crisis and major problems, because Serbs will not go to the polls unless there is progress in achieving the resolution, in its, mentioned, earlier elements. Only elections and hopes of normalising things after elections are not enough guarantees for Serb communities and Serbs living as individuals in Kosovo and Metohija. In agreement with them, we ask the international community for concrete projects and return programmes, to introduce additional institutions for the protection of national communities, to introduce national councils, as institutions that will decide, without majorisation, on all matters of interest for the national identity of people living in Kosovo and Metohija, and ask that the competences be transferred to municipalities, not to the extent that they are at the province level, which are in the present proposal, but to have most of the competences at the level of municipalities, which would then allow those municipalities where Serbs have a heavy majority, they form their bodies with much more executive functions than they have so far had local self-government in this project of temporary constitutional solutions. It's about a review of the situation, as we see it from the level of the Federal and Republic Government. It's about a review of how our things are in the international context. These are two or three remarks about what we as a government do daily to only improve the critical bad situation of our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. If there are needs, the competent ministers have prepared reports for each ministry individually. I've got the paperwork and the numbers for everything I said. If MPs want, we can multiply it as a special report or that the ministers themselves, if there is a need, give some brief report on the state of the portfolio for which they are responsible, which is being conducted in Kosovo and Metohija itself, and I would like to thank you that we do not go too far into the details, because most of it does not actually rest on the powers of the Resolution. Most of it takes place in the congested state. So we haven't abolished any structure of the ministries, but we have strengthened them over time, but it is in some vacuum between Resolution 1244 and our constitution and our laws, because in this interspace, our entire policy, regarding Kosovo and Metohija, is currently taking place in an urgent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8034	Are any of the other members of the government answering for a word? Nobody. ) The words are made by the presidents of the parliamentary groups - Mr Ivkovic, so Mr Seselj, then Mr Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8035	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government, no one in this country has the right to change any document as an integral part of the conditions of the cease-fire. Basically, this results in a task for all of us in this room. So, for parliamentary parties, but certainly for those who are not parliamentary parties, which is to define a minimum of national interests for which we certainly have one meaningful and rational goal, which is Security Council Resolution 1244. This is the task that we have done with great success in this assembly on 4 May and certainly, if something will be remembered in the work of the MPs of this assembly, it is May 4th - the day when the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija was adopted, without any abstention, without any votes against. So it's completely unanimous. We as a people, as citizens of this country, but as a Serbian people, we are in one specific position, that we must define a minimum of national interests and require a comprehensive and complete application of Resolution 1244. In that sense, any action that would weaken our negotiating position, and above all in the sense of creating some new ideas that could make a division in the Corps of those who have been exiled and avoided from Kosovo and Metohija, in the sense that one part of those who are in Kosovo and Metohija see their chance of being more attached to the rest of Serbia. But it completely shuts down the chance for most 350,000 citizens to return to their hearths in their country, the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It's all inappropriate and requires our assessment and conviction in that direction. We must be unique, this is the minimum of national interests, in demand for the international community to be fully applied Resolution 1244 and nothing more. If we're talking about the legal justice system, if we're talking about justice, we have that resolution. This people, citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia, fought for the resolution in a dirty, illegal, aggressive and ruthless war against this people. There is no one's right to make any idea in this direction, especially if the idea can tear up a corps of citizens -- non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, who and how they have the right to demand all their constitutional rights in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and from the aspect of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We, as an SPS parliamentary group, have read the proposals for conclusions. We were not at all pleased with what we got, but we read in order to very little change, with the desire that this session of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly also end with a unanimous decision of this Parliament and this home and that everyone knows, both here and in the world, that all parties in the Republic of Serbia are unique in defending the requirement to apply the document of the highest body of the United Nations, which is the Security Council. That's why our dissatisfaction was even greater when we read part of the material that we received, which was made in the Federal Foreign Ministry, a state that has UN security authorities in its territory, has UNMIK, has document 1244, knows all the members of the document. The way this is written speaks of one policy of direct indulgence, and if you want capitulation. The first paragraph stating the right and obligation of the international community to implement Article 10. Security Council, and no mention of Article 9. The Security Council resolution, where the international community is obliged to ensure public order and peace, security for the return of all exiled and fugitives from Kosovo and Metohija, to regulate 250,000 emigrated from Albania's territory to SRJ territory, not a word. Head to the sand on page 2, where it is said that it is doubtless that the constitutional framework has given to a certain extent elements of Kosovo's statehood and Metohija. Did these people at the Federal Foreign Ministry, when they wrote this, like who would read all this? Every citizen of this country understands the spirit of the document. Mr Hekerup, but unfortunately in the preamble, called for certain parts of Article 9 (a) to (f) of the UN Security Council Resolution, in which he spoke about public order and security. The lawyers in this room know very well the weight of expressing views in the preamble and in the basic document. Finally, on the last 5 pages is said - The constitutional framework is certainly not satisfactory. We Serbian citizens must tell the truth. The international community, however much it has shown its mood towards the new government in SRJ and Repulica Serbia, obviously does not give up its projected policy towards mixing, mixing, creating problems and self-inflicting to solve the problem. The best example is south of Serbia. The South of Serbia is the revenge and trap of the old US administration. South Serbia, a story and a colorful lie may also be a pleasure to feel any citizen of Serbia at a time when Hekerup is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. After Cushner, we thought nothing worse could happen. Kouchner recognised the legislation of the Republic of Serbia at the end of 1989 in Kosovo and Metohija. Kouchner was only talking about certain acts he was bringing. What did Hekerup do at a time in southern Serbia? He deleted it, completely wiped Serbia and Yugoslavia. Clearly, it is not easy in a situation where the European Union, when the United States is now said in the Federal Foreign Ministry document, and Russia is in good shape and in general supporting Mr Hekerup's views, it is not easy to negotiate. But this parliament is tasked with being rational, to be measured, but to make it clear that there is a document, which is Security Council Resolution 1244, of which this people, Serbian citizens do not stand down. In that sense, we're going to propose changes and I'm going to read them here. Certain changes, not major changes, are the minimum that a group of the Socialist Party of Serbia can accept in this parliament. 1. Old text - document, Constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija does not constitute a good legal basis... (This - does not represent a good legal basis, certainly the heart hurts everyone, because it is the finest, the softest thing to say. )......................................................................................................... to achieve the autonomous status of the province of Kosovo and Metohija, the equality of citizens and national communities and, in particular, the (old text) protection of the freedom and rights of Serbs and other ethnic communities. There is no document in civilised Europe and the world that does not have to be tasked with guaranteeing the equality of citizens and national communities. There's no trace of that in Hekerup's file. 2. The new text -- a special representative of the UN Secretary-General is required to review the document in order to ensure the broad autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija, with the adoption of effective ones -- you notice that we, as well as Prime Minister Djindjic, are bypassing the story of Serbia and Yugoslavia -- guarantees and the establishment of institutions, which will guarantee (new text) autonomy, equality of citizens and national communities and human rights of Serbs. If they speak of human rights, let them also be realised by the human rights of Serbs and other national communities in accordance with the Resolution, the UN Security Council 1244 is inserted. 3. In Article 3, we do not intervene anything and we are completely in agreement. So the authorities and representatives of the international community are required to have strict respect for the resolution. 4. Full equality of citizens and national communities in Kosovo and Metohija is sought and insists on ensuring the free and safe return of all displaced and displaced persons, lighting up the fate of the kidnapped and missing and guaranteed safety of all residents in Kosovo and Metohija, in accordance with Article 9. UN Security Council Resolution. It's clear to everyone that he wasn't a member of the 9 for no reason, and then he was a member of the 10. So, first, ensure public order and peace, security, safe return of the exiled and the refugees, and then in article 10 he talks about autonomy. It's clear to all of us, just not to the Federal Foreign Ministry of the SRJ. 5. Proposed not to change as proposed by the Government. Six. There is a key change - before the elections are required that civil and military authorities form and implement the return programme of the exiles and guarantee security and equal human rights for all citizens. There is nothing more natural than demanding that elections be held in a safe and peaceful environment, that every citizen can live and work normally, where every citizen living until June 1999, until KFOR and UNMIK arrive, has the right to return to his hearth. Where is this international community to help? Is it (began to prepare burned-down Serbian houses in Kosovo and Metohija? Did she go to provide possible jobs and jobs to those who returned? What has the international community done in the last 7-8 months? Nothing. She brought only the Hackerup document and nothing else. Seven. The competent state authorities should continue to co-operate with UNMIK and the OSCE on the consistent and comprehensive implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1244. We propose a new 8th point -- these conclusions officially delivered to the UN Security Council. Then we think the new points of 9 and 10 can stay, but then they're meaningless.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8036	Mr. Seselj, the People's MP has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this document delivered to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have an amazing example of condescending, who has no match in our people's past history since the release from Turkish slavery, and a significant setback from that resolution already adopted by the National Assembly about 15 days ago. At the time, we had a resolution, which means that we have consistently announced to the public the views of the Serbian parliament. Now all we have is a conclusion. So we've fallen both in the legal force and in the legal treatment of the underlying problem we're considering here. In so condescending, the Serbian government forgot the key issue, the issue of sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. I do not dispute with the government that it advocates freedom and the rights of Serbs and other ethnic communities, but there is something that precedes these rights, which is state sovereignty and there is no word about it. The government has already had more contact with an occupation in Kosovo and a Metohija called UNMIK and the government is promising to give them all the conditions to charge customs duties, taxes, and taxes. They call the same thing different names, but in any case no one from the Serbian government disputes at all the right to charge UNMIK something from the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. In Security Council Resolution 1244, there is no provision that gives UNMIK the right to charge something in Kosovo. All its activities, UNMIK can only finance the money that has been brought to Kosovo and the Metohija on the outside. Of course, some of the citizens can be charged, but only what is prescribed by the laws of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. If local self-government can charge something, and we know what it is, it is a very limited type of income, then it can be done by a restored local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. UNMIK cannot take over the federal state and Republika Srpska's powers, which is why no one draws attention to it. The Security Council resolution was not implemented, but because they were not disarmed by Cypriot terrorists, which is one of the main tasks of the occupation troops in Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, the Kumanski Agreement was not implemented, especially in that provision to return to 1,000 of our troops and police officers in Kosovo and Metohija. They were to return there to our customs officers, and, above all, to protect our customs service at the border towards Macedonia, at the border towards Albania. Only the federal state, and that meant guaranteeing the sovereignty of the federal state and Security Council resolution, could charge customs. Customs could be charged exclusively at the state border. Now, this is where the Serbian government agrees that goods, which go from Serbia to Kosovo and Metohija, are released from taxes in Serbia, to release taxis in Serbia, so that they can charge both taxes and taxes and all that follows. There, the Serbian government violates both the Constitution and the laws, and those that this parliament recently passed here, with opposition from the opposition. Serbia's government is actually struggling with Kosovo, it can't forget it, it can't give up completely, and it can't publicly say that Kosovo and Metohija don't care at all. The Americans are implementing their policy and implementing it precisely. When we got a little rusty here in parliament, when we didn't accept that first draft document of the resolution submitted by the Serbian government, but we sharpened, and made it quite sharp, they opened the affair of Zoran Djindjic with Stanko Sutotic and Djindjic immediately refer. Now we have a slight conclusion, it's also provided by the Federal Foreign Minister's opinion, that it's no good, but we don't have a chance, we can't stand up, we have to be humble. It's standing on these six sides here, please read it. This is an invitation to extreme humility. If you had told the people in the election campaign that you would be so humble, you probably wouldn't have gotten a serious amount of votes. You guaranteed your friendship with Western forces and built promises on it, as soon as you took power, that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija would be resolved and that Kosovo and Metohija would be preserved. What's the game here? With this game, they try to force you by the end of the year to make constitutional changes, give Kosovo full independence to this, bring it into equal status with Serbia-Montenegro and make it a factor that will take part in the reconstruction of the federal constitution. That's the point. Of course, everything DOS government does in Vojvodina is connected to this, because you and Vojvodina are turning into a federal unit. You're doing it more and more openly. You promised them a change of some hundred and some laws in that sense, and the Americans want Yugoslavia with at least four federal units. That's why they're opening an affair with Mila Djukanovic with Stanko Sutotic, and the Americans are showing they know everything. When they need what they need, they launch over their informants and whoever they have in their hands, they maximum launch it when that man no longer needs it, or when that man...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8038	Mr. Seselj, please let's drop the speculation when we talk about extremely serious things, it's Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8039	These are facts, and these are very serious things, we're not going to stick our heads in the sand. This is where the Americans are preparing a change in our country's constitutional project, where the Americans are preparing Yugoslavia with four confederal units, to make it easier for the Yugoslavia to tear itself apart. That is why Milo Djukanovic is now being detained in Yugoslavia, because if he left immediately, then it is much harder for Americans to lead to the secession of Kosovo and Vojvodina, and to implement it in a relatively legal manner. In this condescendingness, you have no end, it is also seen by this insistence, to pass a law on the delivery of Serbs to The Hague tribunal, on the invention of various affairs, and Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic invented even a freezer full of corpses to further support the request that Milosevic be delivered to The Hague tribunal. No one saw the freezer, no bodies anywhere, no reports of potential corpses disappearing somewhere while people were alive...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8040	Mr. Seselj, we're talking constitutional frameworks, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8041	... constitutional frameworks...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8042	What does it have to do with constitutional frameworks, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8043	Why are you running away from it? These are constitutional frameworks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8044	I'm not running away from it. You're running away from the subject. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8045	These are constitutional frameworks. We have a government that accepts everything served from the West, and we here pretend that parliament is seriously discussing a question, although there is no seriousness in this proposal. Which is why we're having a debate if this debate can't have any effect. If by order from the West, from the NATO Pact, the interior minister invents terrible crimes. You know, you could have made up that Milosevic raped unknown girls. It would be a trend with this government of yours, where you invent affairs for your ministers and vice presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8046	Mr. Seselj, I warn you, you have your first warning. If you don't think it's a serious debate, then don't even participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8047	You can't stop the truth from breaking into the people. The truth is that you are helping NATO to make an anti-Serbian pact. You pretend to disagree with this constitutional framework, and you've already accepted it. You already promised to register the exiled Serbs here so they could participate in the elections, etc. A representative of Serbs from Kosovo comes to Djindjic and a statement is being issued -- Serbs are due to go to the polls. Then the Serbs rebelled from Kosovo, then another statement -- he didn't think so. Why should we fool ourselves, tell me a hundred warnings, and last time you illegally kicked me out of the assembly, throw me out again. Throw me out all the time, but you can't stop me from talking. There's no way to stop me. You can only find me a freezer, put me down, keep me alive, get me out like a corpse after five or six months, etc. You can do all that. But there's one problem here. Serbia had no more incompetent and condescending authority. She never had one. Of course, you can blame the previous government. It's a lot of blame for the previous government for everything that's happened. She's very guilty and there's no doubt at all, but when she was in some weak way opposing the Western forces, you were helping the Western forces. We now have before us a project of Kosovo's constitution as an independent state. It's not an independent state yet, it can't be independent while it's under occupation. Even if it were a Ship's Kosovo... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It's not independent, as long as NATO's pact is there, right? But it is on its own from Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. This is about an independent legal project of Kosovo and Metohija, even a legal order. So, a special legal order, which has nothing to do with Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's legal order. In conclusion, there is not a single word, nor is there a question of how it will be implemented by the laws of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. You now have tax laws that you must enforce there. How, why don't you ask that question? Why don't you seek the protection of KFOR with your tax expropriators, who would go there to collect taxes? As for funding from Serbia's budget, Kosovo and Metohija's autonomy can be financed under the same criteria. That's what logic requires. And you don't give another person the right to charge taxes there, or taxes, or customs, or anything else. That doesn't even require a UN Security Council resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8048	Mr. Seselj, do you combine the discussion?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8049	No, have I run out of time?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8050	Yes, I warned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8051	I'll get back to you. I'm not connecting the discussion. You should have let me know I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8052	I've informed you, but you haven't heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8053	All right, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8054	The word has a National MP, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8055	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the Serbian Unity Party considers the proposal for a conclusion as very mild, and I'm afraid, very timid. We believe that, compared to the constitutional framework proposed by Mr Hans Hekerup, namely, the factual constitution of independent Kosovo and Metohija, separated from Serbia and Yugoslavia, we must react much stronger and much more decisively. Of course, I totally understand that we have to move within the framework of Resolution 1244 and we are just asking that this determination moves within that resolution, because it would be really unreal to look for something that we had before we adopted Resolution 1244. Of course that resolution is not good for Serbia and Yugoslavia, but it is a reality and we must move within its frameworks. However, the proposal for a conclusion is really too mild and it does not fully express the will of the Serbian people, both in Kosovo and Metohija, nor the Serbs who have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija, nor the citizens of Serbia as a whole. The very name of this document, in conclusion, is currently talking about the mildness of the form which we address to the Secretary-General, or his representative in Kosovo and Metohija, or the international community. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly adopts laws, adopts a budget law, adopts declarations, resolutions and conclusions. What is this proposal called a conclusion? Why did we fall for the lowest form of the act brought by this congregation? I think it should be, if not in law form, and at least in the form of a declaration. The Serbian Unity Party submitted a declaration to the Assembly on the non-acceptation of the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and the Hans Hekerup Metohija. I hope that the MPs will receive it during the day, if the Secretariat has multiplied and divided it into the MPs. If I were right, the students from Novi Sad, who sent us all a declaration, to all MP groups. The declaration is very serious and it concerns Resolution 1244 and the constitutional framework brought by Hans Hekerup. It is the Student Union of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, the Alliance of Faculty of Law students in Novi Sad, the Student Federation of the University of Novi Sad, the Student Right of the Institute in Novi Sad and the National Movement - Resistance in Novi Sad. They issue a declaration calling directly for us, the People's MPs, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. "Today, when protection of the rights to life, freedom and property is a widely accepted civilizational fluid, the non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija, those rights are denied. One of the mechanisms for systematic violation of all basic human rights is the recently declared interim constitutional framework for Kosovo and Metohija. This document rather than providing conditions for a smooth return and a safe life for the non-Albanian population, flagrantly, and seems to deliberately disable the survival of everything that is non-Albanian in Kosovo and Metohija. In this way, Mr Hekerup has made it clear that Kosovo and Metohija will not be a multiethnic state in the near future. Resolution 1244, which guarantees Yugoslavia's sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija, was put forward by the move of a UN official's pen out of force. What the students of the four strongest student organizations (written in this declaration) at the University of Novosad are interested in -- who is he in our country, who allowed him to do? There is a very concise and simple response - you are responsible, gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament and members of the Republic Government. First, you are the last parliament and government in Europe to discuss the current problem of Kosovo and Metohija. That's right. ) Secondly, you are the last person to receive in the official audience of the association and organisation of our assembly, the victims of Kosovo and Metohija, the last in providing adequate assistance to Serbs who have remained in Kosovo and Metohija, you are the last in informing the Security Council and relevant international institutions about the situation of the Serbs and other non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija, you are the last in responding to the setting of customs checkpoints at the borders of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, you are the last in informing the local public about the loss of Orthodox sanctity and torture of the Serb people and monasticism in the remaining enclaves, you are the last in the tour of Serbian enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija, but you are the first to care for your own people. "That's what the students tell us, that's what the resistance people's movement from Novi Sad tell us, and they say, "From above, we see clearly our attitudes and demands. We are asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly for a greater understanding and engagement by all the above points. This means that we expect the action to be completely counterproductive, and particularly different from that of the former government, whose time these problems have arisen and experienced their expansion. We again appeal to all the structures of the Republic's government to make maximum efforts to address these issues. "This declaration I think we should take very seriously, we should worry - which is why students think more about Kosovo and Metohija than we do, the people's representatives. Given that these conclusions propose amendments to Articles 1, 6 and 7, I think it is not right to look at certain points now, given that the working group is likely to discuss this and make different conclusions. I hope your conclusions will be much better, much clearer, much more determined than these conclusions. What we must mention in these conclusions is that point 2 is said - it is proposed to a special advisor. I think we should at least put - we are asking a special representative to declare a zero constitutional framework for self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, which he has declared valid. Furthermore, point 4 says it is seeking full protection from the Serb people and other non-Albanian communities in Kosovo and Metohija and insisting on ensuring and security of the return of all exiled and displaced persons, which is indeed fine, and lighting up the fate of the kidnapped and missing. Gentlemen, it's not the same to be kidnapped, kidnapped or missing. It's about 1,300 of our Serbs and non-Albanians, who have been kidnapped, kidnapped. The fate of some of them is known; some of them are not known. I think we need to be sharper and we need to figure it out, because it's about people, even if we put -- about 1,300 abducted Serbs and other non-Albanians. I know this is about the pressure of the international community to find, for God's sake, the missing Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. There are no missing Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. If you think of Albanians who are arrested, who are convicted and who are in our prisons, that's what you should say. But as long as we let the Albanians in our prisons, we will not get a single freed Serb, who is in prisons and in Kosovo Mitrovica, and in Pristina, and in Bondsteel, that I do not speak of those who are in labor camps or those whose fate truly knows nothing. Then it is said -- an agreement with the SRJ on the status of UNMIK and KFOR mission in Kosovo and Metohija is required. It is completely unclear who is looking for it, who should conclude the agreement, whether the Serbian government with SRJ or SRJ with a third party, because the formulation of point 5 is really quite vague. I'm not going to comment on point 6 now, since we're going to talk about it on the task force. It says concrete measures will be taken to achieve the functions of the competent state authorities in Kosovo and Metohija, especially in the domain of taxes, customs and trade in goods. Does this mean that there will be a border between central Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, does the government want to tell us this point 8? I hope it's also a bad formulation. Lastly, the competent state authorities will agree and define the organisation of the Federal Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and crisis resolution strategies in this province, as well as the way they are implemented. As far as I know, the Federal Committee's organisation is defined, with this committee being left to itself and that it cannot solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of the expertise of Mr Momčel Trajkovic, who lives downstairs and who knows best the problem of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. I think that one common body, composed of representatives of all parliamentary parties, should be made up of experts, which will have full support from both the Republic and the Federal Government, and this political body should resolve the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. the fate of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia and in the composition of Yugoslavia. And so, Hans Hekerup passed a constitution that practically means an independent Albanian state in the heart of Serbia, a state that will have its Albanian president, a country that will have its coat of arms, its flag, its anthem. Of course, Albanian coat of arms, Albanian flag, Albanian anthem, a state that will have a currency called a Dardan, instead of a dinar, a Yugoslav currency. This, of course, does not appear in the Constitutional framework, but it says that temporary institutions will continue to develop this document, which is quite clear. Furthermore, does this mean that the armed forces in Kosovo and Metohija, which are scheduled to be the Kosovo Protection Corps, or the disguised Kosovo Liberation Army? If so, how will we encourage Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to survive in Kosovo and Metohija? How will we encourage Serbs who have escaped Kosovo and Metohija to return to Kosovo and Meohija? His salary is 140,000 marks, Hans Hekerup, his wife and daughter receive 20,000 marks, and his son serves in the Danish KFOR battalion in Kosovo and Metohija. I know that he is richly rewarded, I know that it is only an exponent of the great power and that he will probably, like many others who have come to Kosovo and Metohija or to Bosnia and Herzegovina, upon leaving to say, you Serbs were right but I had to do so because I received an order because I received a great pay for what I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8056	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8057	The previous government has left Kosovo and Metohija with its carelessness and is directly responsible for the situation in Kosovo and Metohija today. This government and the government, if they react this mildly and do not preserve Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia-Yugoslavia's borders, will also, if not greater responsibility than the previous government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8058	The word has been given by the MP, Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8059	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the fact that for the second time we are talking about Kosovo and Metohija, and there is not a full month. That speaks enough about the results of our work. If we can draw some conclusions from what we said on May 4th at the congregation speaker, then these conclusions oblige us today not to repeat what was wrong and what was ineffective, among other things, and the resolution that we voted on, though it was all ours, and although we can certainly stand behind it today. Every resolution and every work we have in this House makes sense only to the extent that those interests we stand for are being realized. We were very specific in a declarative position, which was expressed as our reaction to the international community's intention to regulate the situation in Kosovo and Metohija by the constitution for temporary self-government. The concrete consequence of our work at the time is, among other things, today's session, and since only one thing has changed in the meantime, not our attitude towards Kosovo and Metohija, not our ideas that we have put forward in that conclusion or in Resolution, but the attitude of the international community, which, in addition to everything we have done, has confirmed only one political project that has been in place for years. If we go into the analysis of this project, I don't think we should repeat the mistakes of the past in which we have interpreted the world's relations with us with certain conspiracies, impatience. First of all, we need to think about what we can influence, about our own willingness and ability, about, in real political contexts, in real circumstances that are what they are and what we can't influence, about protecting our own interest, not about giving up on them, not about transforming them, not about adapting them to something that is unacceptable in itself. First of all, I mean giving up territorial sovereignty and trampling the constitution. First of all, in a time that's very exclusive, we avoid the outcomes we've been meeting for the last few years. We can beat up on the better of wars, we can threaten the world, we can tell Hackerup that we're not interested in what he's doing, but no one will benefit from it. We will remove responsibility from the citizens of this society for what we have said. The citizens didn't choose us to talk to me, they chose to solve the problem. We can discuss something that is now, both officially and formally, a constitution for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. I think we are obliged as parliament, not to look back, but to seriously treat this constitution and try to benefit our society under the circumstances. The benefit can first and foremost be specified through reasoned criticism and through very clear remarks, which point to the inconsistencies of the international community in itself, you will admit, however, insisting on some principles, and, among other things, this is proved in our case through the process of solving problems in southern Serbia. So, what I'm saying is, as far as the constitution for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija is concerned, the UN Security Council Resolution 1244 has been hit. I would like to refer to my objections to the conditions in which this constitution is formally confirmed and imposed, in a manner and content. As far as the conditions are concerned, there is no legal basis within Resolution 1244 that allows the international community to do something in itself called the constitution for the temporary self-government of Kosovo and Metohija. There are very clear preconditions that precede something that can be interpreted more or less as the basis for the adoption of a legal framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, which is not directly, but specifically mentioned in Resolution 1244 as technology, as a process for the selection of non-separate authorities, but for authorities in the specific frameworks of the international community and Resolution 1244 to implement local self-government. So, something that in itself has gone undefined in Resolution 1244 has its own prehistory. She rests first and foremost on two principles. To fully guarantee the security of citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, to realize the process of returning those who have avoided war conflicts and finally to start a political process and dialogue. But not only representatives of citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, but in this dialogue and this process of political definition of relations in Kosovo and Metohija must be influenced by legitimate representatives of Serbia and the SRJ. It's our right that comes from Resolution 1244 and that's what we have to stand behind at all times very clearly. So, by interpreting very freely Resolution 1244, the international community has given itself the right to neglect all those obligations that precede that right. As for the way that resolution was adopted, i.e. the interpreted and adopted constitutional framework for temporary self-government, it is also absolutely unacceptable. That's what we can stand by and what we can support by facts and evidence. It is unacceptable because it is imposed, which in Kosovo and Metohija are not subject to conditions for the return of the refugee population, which in Kosovo and Metohija there are no essential conditions for safe living, which in Kosovo and Metohija has not begun a real, real, serious political process, which could result in an agreement between representatives or one or another people. The agreement of representatives of all ethnic communities, with the presence, on the one hand, of the international community, and I repeat, on the other hand, representatives of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. As far as the content is concerned, this content itself stems from one more free interpretation of Resolution 1244, which emerged from those documents that this parliament refused to accept, which was offered in Rambuje, and then in the negotiations that were held in Paris. If we analyze that document, we'll see that the international community in only one segment was inconsistencies with her declaring it there. It only amended those points of the document that required limiting today's authorities, those fictitious and formal, practical in Kosovo and Metohija. When Serbia was the one responsible for everything that was happening in Kosovo and Metohija, there were much stronger legal frameworks that held it back in something that today the Albanian national community does not stem from in Kosovo and Metohija, not by force, but by applying the legal rules that the international community insisted on in early 1999. So, what do we as a parliament have to do? We must, on the one hand, show this obvious inconsistency and insist on respecting Resolution 1244 and seek all those rights which, by international law, are the position of the international community in the process of solving the problem, not only in Kosovo and Metohija, but also in the Balkan region not only to Serbs, but also to representatives of non-Albanian living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. We are on one hand the obvious partners of the world in solving problems in the region. Here I think of the problem that appeared in southern Serbia, which I believe is not only remedied, but practically solved, given that all the preconditions for a smooth and normal life in that part of our country have been provided. I think of all the political initiatives that are being supported, the political initiatives that we create and initiate, which we are getting support from the international community in terms of solving problems in Macedonia. Now, when they put themselves in a comparative relationship, the international community's position towards us as the authorities of Serbia and the SRJ in the process of solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija and problems in southern Serbia, you will see one in itself unsustainable illogicality. That this was the case, among other things, with all the initiatives that followed, following Hackerup's and formal resignation, in which he also declared the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija, which were concrete and in which they participated, on the one hand, the President of the SRJ, Mr Kostunica, in his visits and contacts in the United States and Germany, and on the other hand, the Prime Minister in his acts in France. Two members of the Security Council are very clear in everything they said in those contacts, supporting a policy not only declared by today's state leadership, but also by concrete implementation. If that's the case, then we don't have the right to tie our hands to a retic that has no effect. She's a lot like the ghost of the past. I'm not taking away anyone's right to want what we want with that rhetoric. Everyone can follow the same goal, and move along different paths. But that road is a one-way street. It's a path we won't get out of, and it certainly won't get us to the finish line. That's what it tells us in 1999, the Kumanian Agreement and all the consequences that we still have to deal with today. So, with the policy we have demonstrated in the process of solving problems in southern Serbia, we must enter the process of solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija, and therefore, not condescendingly, not unmistakably, not threatening, but we must very clearly say what our interests are and how we think we are achieving them. Not in conflict with the world, not in conflict within Serbia, between the parties in power and the opposition, but in a unity that is not fictitious, it is not shameful. A unity that is not due to our inability to solve something, but a unity that is due to a healthy political consciousness that says: Kosovo and Metohija are not a party problem, it is a state problem. And the state is the citizens who chose us, we're their representatives, and that's why we have to say what are the ways that the problem will be solved without deepening the division in our society. That's enough discord. On Kosovo and Metohija, political unity is needed in a state sense. In this state sense, unity exists, in parliamentary terms, on May 4th. I expect that today MPs will continue to deal with these conclusions, but not in the sense of demeaning the government, but in terms of respecting the reality in which we are today and in terms of helping those who are executive authorities, that the problem which is long-term, tragic, is consistently solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8060	The word has Mr. Mihajlovic, Interior Minister, followed by Mr. Batic, the minister of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8061	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, I am obliged to give two answers to the questions asked by the members of the parliamentary groups, the Party of Serbian Unity, Mr Pelevic and the SRS, Mr Vojislav Seselj. Before that, allow me two findings on this topic that is on the agenda today. The prime minister expressed the government's position on this issue, and it would be really difficult and unnecessary to add anything. I just want to realize that life experience teaches us that especially in government and political affairs, we are never in a position to choose between two goods. There's always a choice between greater and smaller evil. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, the choice we essentially have, if we don't want to fool ourselves, is very simple and well known. We have two models that we can choose and that we can identify in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. The first model is the one that applied the old power. It is a model of confrontation with the international community and its own people, with the known consequences we are now talking about when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. The second model was a model that applied new power when faced with a similar problem in southern Serbia, in these three municipalities, Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji, which is a model of co-operation with the international community and with its own citizens, however nationalities, religions and political commitment were, again, with the known consequences now recorded in southern Serbia. Therefore, on all Serbian citizens, it is up to us as Government, and it is up to you as representatives of the people to decide between these two choices, to be aware of that. For a reason, Mr Pelevic noted that the number of kidnapped persons in Kosovo and Metohija should be listed. I want to introduce you to the fact that since the arrival of the international KFOR forces, a total of 5,450 terrorist attacks, including 1,086 people, wounded 1,150 and kidnapped 1,046 people, have been carried out since the arrival of the international KFOR forces. The largest number of attacks were carried out against the remaining Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija. Secondly, when it comes to the accusation made by Mr. Seselj that I have invented the colder case for certain political reasons, I must note that I personally appreciate Mr. Seselj, because I consider him a worthy ideological opponent, who very successfully represents his ideas that differ from mine, but that I am truly sorry, even though I say that his abilities are great, and he is made of these mistakes. It would have been nice if this hadn't happened. I'd be very happy if it was some ugly dream and it would be good for all of us if I made this up. Unfortunately, this "fridge" case is a cruel reality that we all have to face and it would be good to have courage, human, moral in ourselves and all of us, to deal with it as soon as possible. Because the sooner we do that, the better for all of us. The investigation into this case is conducted impartially. The only thing I can say right now is that right now we know that there were 86 bodies in that freezer, and soon, the public will be familiar, each of you can be aware of what happened to those bodies, where they came from, who did what they did around them. I wish it was the only case we'd ever face, but there's a lot of evidence that similar cases may still exist elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8062	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Batic, and then Mr Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8063	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, putting on the agenda the issues of Kosovo and Metohija and at the previous session of the Republic of Parliament, and today, shows a new practice, a positive practice and in the work of the current government of the Republic of Serbia and this calls on the Republic of Parliament. I am saying this because I have witnessed years ago that the Kosovo and Metohija theme has never come to the agenda of the Republic of Serbia, so we came into a frantic and paradoxical situation that almost all European countries discussed Kosovo and Metohija, including the Parliament of Europe, and never the Serbian Parliament, until 3.06.1999, when in one day the occupation was practically accepted, when parliaments were confirmed in the same day and the capitulation, and it sounds cynical that the document concludes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopts a document for the achievement of peace, brought by representatives of the European Union, the President of the Republic of Finland Ahtisaari and the special envoy of Russian Federation President Boris Jeljeljcin, Viktor Chernomirdin. The document confirms the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. The document confirms the role of the United Nations. The document, above all else, is the basis for peace. This is all the previous meetings of the Republic of Parliament discussed, concluded and decided on Kosovo and Metohija. At the last session, when this was the point of the agenda, it was said that Resolution 1244 was a moral victory. Ladies and gentlemen, Resolution 1244 is no moral victory. It is the office of protectorate in Kosovo and Metohija. I need to remind you of something else, Resolution 1244, read it a little more carefully, incorporate itself, at least in what concerns the legal arrangement of Kosovo's status, the local self-government of Kosovo and Metohija. The Rambuje Agreement, please pay attention to this detail, you will find this in Article 11(a), in Article 11(e), in Annex 1, you will find this in the conclusions of Minister Group eight. It's all part of Resolution 1244. I mention this for the simple reason that, unfortunately, the agreement in Rambujeu also provides for the constitution, predicts both the president of Kosovo and Metohija, and is incorporated into Resolution 1244. So don't blancally glorify Resolution 1244. Do not flee the Republic government from any of its obligations, but thanks to this legacy from the past that includes Rambui. And we know how driven by the Rambouje negotiation, we were represented by the Aboriginals and the Egyptians, unlike those negotiations that were held in Warsaw in 1919, when we were represented by the greatest minds this country and this people had at the time. This is a responsible state policy. So we inherited that mortgage of the past, that difficult legacy, that coward's egg. Now we are trying between Scylla and Haribda, practically to try from the impossible to actually restore lost sovereignty and integrity in Kosovo and Metohija. Speaking of Rambui, he had his positives, much better than those marked by the capitulation, which marked this acceptance of the Agreement, which was marked by the Kumanski Agreement. The agreement in Rambuje envisioned the stay of two and a half thousand soldiers, two and a half thousand police officers in Kosovo and Metohija, envisioned many things. It envisaged, among other things, that the SRJ would have the following competences: territorial integrity, the maintenance of the common market, monetary policy, defence, foreign policy, customs service, federal taxes and other obligations provided for in the Rambuje Agreement. But then the state policy was such that, in principle, false intrinsics and defiances are rejected, and ultimately admits capitulation. That was also the case with the Republika Srpska Krajina, it was also about state policy on Kosovo and Metohija. One more thing, it is mentioned, and it is respected by the Republic government, customs, customs, customs, etc. Gentlemen, MPs, the Regulation establishing customs and other related services, in accordance with the powers set out in Resolution 1244, was brought by the then administrator, UNMIK's then head of Kosovo, Bernard Kouchner. This is Regulation No 3 of 1 September 1999. So there is no connection here between the government of Serbia, not at the time, not at the present. It's the civil administrator's decision. He also adopted an administrative instruction suspending the regulation in Article 6, meaning it will not be implemented, but Hekerup simply removed the suspension and began to apply the Customs Regulation in Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, we must be realistic and keep all these facts in mind. We need to lead one responsible policy, not insanely and maliciously honor this government for it to run some kind of capitulant policy. This mortgage of the past, attributed to us by the previous government and the previous government, cannot be transferred to this government which, by its own policy of diplomacy, understanding, building relations, has succeeded in restoring the lost sovereignty of the security zone and will deal with this bitter pill, but with a priority task that means restoring sovereignty and part of a state territory called Kosovo and Metohija. So our global goal, but not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but the Government of the SRJ, should be to revise Resolution 1244, the revision of the Kumanovo Agreement. Then we would have the opportunity for greater interventions and greater ambitions to restore sovereignty to Kosovo and Metohija. In this position, we must insist on changing constitutional frameworks. I agree that -- they used to be legal frameworks -- they shouldn't be called constitutional frameworks, because they associate with independence. Then let's insist on those details that we have the right to: security, the return of the exiled, the fate of the missing. To all try to go towards what is common desire together, which is the return of sovereignty to Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you. (VOYSLAV SECTOR, from the scene: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8064	The MP shall have the right to reply if it is mentioned in an offensive context. In the presentation of Prime Minister Vladan Batic, there was no offensive context for any MP. You have no right to a replica. The word is made by Minister Veselinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a few words, I would just like to present to you what the Ministry of Agriculture does as part of the government's policy to improve the situation in agriculture in Cosmet, in the part where the Serbian people live. In this past period, and this is just over a hundred days, we are contrary to the accusations that we have abandoned the care of our people in Cosmet, the entire seed for corn delivered completely free. We delivered over 200 tons of diesel fuel. Unfortunately, because of the previous government's policy, on which customs are allowed and are now being applied, three times less managed to go up to Kosovo to the Serbian people for the spring set than we thought would be possible. Customs, based on the former policies that have now been introduced, have prevented our people from being there for him, as far as the seeds are concerned, better. This government continues to fund all agricultural inspectors, all veterinary inspectors, all forest inspectors and all water industry inspectors. So, everyone who was on our government payroll and worked on Cosmet. They're all still on the payroll. We seek, wherever possible, to secure for them a new job in our territory, if it is back where they came from, or if it is possible to return them back to that territory of these three districts that are now in Cosmet under Serbian, what kind of -- such, control. We want them back there to encourage the existing population to stay and to believe that a better life is still possible. We deliver over 350 tonnes of flour a month, so that the entire Serb population that gets this flour, feeds on, what we deliver as a 600-gram loaf of ten dinars, thanks to our help from here. This government, I am deeply convinced, will lead an active policy of co-operation with the international community. A policy of active conflict with the international community was under way in spite of warnings from this assembly and from the Alliance of Vojvodina, a policy was conducted to lose Kosovo, but due to international intervention, not to enable Kosovo to reintegration in Serbia in any way. It's about this pay phone and today it's about autonomy. There is no greater mistake committed by the former government when it abolished Kosovo's autonomy. Not because the Albanians wanted to, but because the Albanians didn't want to and precisely because they didn't want to, and they used that argument that we abolished autonomy, you, the former government. They used this in the fight to realise their national and other rights and to gain the sympathy and support of the international community. Instead of leaving the autonomy of Cosmeta, if they won't, Serbs are actively taking over all the functions they held there until yesterday before the autonomy was lifted. We would have an institutional and political framework to defend Cosmet through the fact that autonomy does not interfere with the reintegration of Albanians into Serbia's state life. The destroyed autonomy of Cosmeta was one of the largest but false excuses by Albanians that Serbia is against them. They didn't want her. They wanted, as they will today, a great Albania. We Serbs lost one of the most powerful arguments in the struggle we could have had together with the international community and do not repeat what was a mistake, now again some of the speakers say it would be a mistake if the autonomy of Vojvodina was restored. Vojvodina's autonomy will contribute to strengthening political life in Serbia, political stabilisation of opportunities. Vojvodina's autonomy is the condition of Serbia's reintegration into Europe. The regionalisation of Europe is the second speed in interstate co-operation and it is an undertaking that will allow our country to return even faster to Europe, rather than insisting only on co-operation across the state level. It is not the Vojvodina, nor the forces that are fighting for the restoration of the autonomy of Vojvodina, that are neither supraist nor secessionist to use it in the fight against this government, because autonomy is essentially a condition of our country's reform. Vojovidna's autonomy is the condition of democracy in the country and the democratic process. In this sense, the restoration of the economic autonomy of the Vojvodina, cultural and educational, is not only about this government, but about the leading political forces that form a coalition that currently has a convincing majority in our parliament. Don't worry about Vojvodina, or Serbia, the future, because those who spoke here about Vojvodina until yesterday spoke about the borders from Karlobag to Virovitica, those who warned us that they should be and whose houses were winding their flags after these flags and the houses burned down. Their concern for Serbia is the least needed. Vojvodina, be assured, will contribute to the stabilisation of political life in this country and do not fear a new constitution, will be Serbia's new constitution, but you will find little of your ideas in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8066	The word has been given by the MP, Mr Pelevic, as a representative of the parliamentary group, another announcement. People's MP Pelevic, on what grounds are you looking for? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. The People's MP Seselj is looking for a replica, and since he has no basis for a replica, you have no replica. The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8067	Madam Chairman, you probably overlooked that the president of the Martians gave me his word for the line when I answered. I'm referring to Article 96 because Mr. Secretary misread my presentation. I have a right to a replica, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8068	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Martian, before he gave me a session, he warned me that you had called and that you had the right as representative of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group to make another announcement, not the right to reply, because he felt that there was nothing in the presentation of Mr. Minister that would bring a tone needed to get a replica. It remains, Mr Pelevic, that you can use your right to report as a representative of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8069	I find my right of MP has been violated, but I will still obey you, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8070	So, Mr. Pelevic gives up. (Vojislav Seselj: I am looking for a replica. Is it? Mr. People's MP has the right to receive a replica in the event that, in an offensive context, his name or in another way, the right of the People's MP in this assembly has been violated. [[You give me a replica?]] Since there is no basis for any replica of any People's MP, the People's Messenger Mr. Seselj according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8071	Minister Dusan Mihajlovic misread my words and I asked for the right to reply, you did not give me. Minister Vladan Batic is wrong...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8072	Which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8073	96.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8074	What's in Article 96? Rules of Procedure broken?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8075	That's what I'm explaining. Why aren't you listening to me? Why are you so impatient? Then, Minister Vladan Batic misread my words, you did not give me the right to reply. Minister Dragan Veselinov has misread my ideology, by which I am recognizable around the world and do not give me the right to replication. What does that mean, that the right to the replica was abolished at all or that the right to the replica was lifted only by me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8076	If you want me to answer immediately, it means that a decision has been made in this assembly to comply with the rules, to respect the order and to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8077	Then who here violates the Rules of Procedure? If the rules are respected, I have the right to the replica of Dusan Mihajlovic, Vladan Batic and Dragan Veselinov or at least one of them, so choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8078	The President of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly will give an interpretation of this by the Rules of Procedure. For the violation of your Rules of Procedure, it is your right as a People's MP to seek a statement from the National Assembly on whether the Rules of Procedure in your case has been violated. These are rights, these are obligations and these are the responsibilities of all of us MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8079	However, since you have pleaded here with respect for the Rules of Procedure, you should now say whether you are staying in respect of the Rules of Procedure or you will only violate the Rules of Procedure when I seek the right to reply, since it is obvious from the Rules of Procedure that I have the right to replication. There is another option for you to put to the vote, so that the assembly majority will say that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. But that congregation majority broke the Rules of Procedure, and when you kicked me out of the session, you all knew it well. That works for me, too. The more you pile up your organized, synchronised and tenorous violation of the Rules of Procedure, I've got more assets against DOS authorities. You can do that, but now you think about what it's all about. The Rules of Procedure can be abolished. You have the right to vote to abolish the Rules of Procedure. You can, on the principle of tyranny, say that the Rules of Procedure apply only to DOS and not to Serbian radicals. It is here that, Madam Chairman, you should declare whether you will respect the Rules of Procedure or you will violate the Rules of Procedure, and you are referring to the will of the majority who supports you in that violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8080	In the spirit of respect for the Rules of Procedure, three minutes and 20 seconds, your time to advertise your violation of the Rules of Procedure is over. I would ask the MP to ask the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to declare that it is a violation of Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Does the MP demand a statement from the National Assembly on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? Since it remains without an answer, I find that the National Assembly will not plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I remain in the interpretation of Articles 96, 98 and 99 and, of course, all MPs in this assembly have the exact same rights and have the right to stand on what it looks like to apply the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Rajko Baralić, and after him, Zaharija Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8081	Dear Mrs. Comic, Mr. Prime Minister with the rest of the cabinet, since three-quarters of your cabinet is not attending an extraordinary session, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected journalists, respected citizens of Serbia, this is the last chance to question whether there really was a Lord's dinner? Mr Jovanovic, saying earlier, said Kosovo's problem arose several years ago. This year, 630 years from the Battle of Mari, and this problem potentially arises on the day of the fall of Constantinople. You, gentlemen, in the election campaign you led, said that the issue of Kosovo and Serbia's relationship with Montenegro is a democratic issue. Today, when you look at these problems from the perspective of the government, you see that it's not so simple, it's neither democratic nor technical. It is a fundamental question, a confrontation, a conflict of interests of those whom you wrongly call an international community, which have their own name and which are called the United States and the European Union, with what are our vital, national and state interests. Several MPs from the ruling DOS coalition have repeatedly quoted Prime Minister Nikola Velimirovic as saying more than once, and I am joining them today and also, with the worship of the monastery in Krka, speak a few sentences that this great man and great Serb said. Seeing all the dangers and devouring of the West, the great thinker of the bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic says of the West: "Didn't you notice that it loves to worship, to worship science, technology, philosophy, culture, religion and politics, art and fashion? To worship at all costs, even with inquisition and paprism, even with sword and fire, even by killing and scissors. The vampire west is on the same roads and goals today. This western mechanized inquisitor creates the angels, the greatest enemies of truth and Orthodoxy." Nothing has changed, and this was said six and a half decades ago. It could have been said centuries ago, and it can be said today. According to the conclusion that is here today, about Kosovo and Metohija, about the need for its modification, the president of our group's MP, Dr Branislav Ivkovic, spoke. There's nothing to add to that. What I want to talk about here is the objective responsibility of anyone who exercises power for what is the greatest problem of his people and his country. You accused everyone who tried to solve this problem with the sole possible, legitimate, legal and all other means, including the right to force, without measure. I remind you that the monopoly on force in one country has a power chosen by the will of the people, and such a monopoly over force held power in the previous council, as you hold it today. You said in an election campaign that we had introduced customs for Montenegro, in Brodarevo, and you abolished them on October 8th, so you returned them on October 10th, so you introduced them between the rest of Serbia and what you today call Kosovo and Metohija. Unprincipled, inconsistencies, but I must say expected. It's not just a question of Kosovo and Metohija for this parliament, it's not just a question for this government, it's not just a question for those who exercised power until yesterday, it's a historic, fateful question on which every Serb, wherever there is any normal citizen of the state of Serbia, whatever his position is, should be engaged to what extent his mind and other abilities allow, with each of them having a good intention to solve the problem, not against the interest of the Albanian population in Kosovo, but in the interest of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, comprehensively. Of course, today we have a derogation or criticism of Resolution 1244 which is not the happiest, and it is not the happiest solution, and it is not painless, and it is not a fair solution, but it was a solution that allowed Serbia to not become a fried country, to stop flying over 800 appliances every day above our sky and to bomb, most often civilian targets, which some others called legitimate war targets. That resolution provided it. We would be happy today if the conclusion offered by the Serbian government could provide at least a level of guarantees to the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, which was provided by Resolution 1244. This conclusion, unfortunately, does not provide for, it introduces Serbia in a position to no longer have repairs, it introduces Kosovo and Metohija in a position to become a sovereign state quite quickly, rather than we expect, and that everything we rightly call Serbian spirituality, tradition, history and culture, the territory of Serb saints, will indeed remain outside the territory and without the jurisdiction of the Serbian state. How many times does it take a temple, such as the monastery of the Holy Archangel at Prizren, to be destroyed, to be made of other gods, so that someone realizes that it is not the essence that someone in Serbia did not act properly, but that someone outside Serbia who does not want Serbia as it is, acts as it suits him. Today, in this House, it is essential that fundamental honesty and an elementary recognition of what is the essence of national interest today in Serbia. What's that we can't get past? The Serbian Orthodox Church, rightfully glorifying the work of the Holy Prince Lazarus, canonized him into a saint, because several times the Ottoman power, which was then what we call the new world order, tried to prevent him from entering and enslaveing this space. So we're celebrating him as a saint, and we're holding another Serbian leader in the regime's playmate today, because he had the same dilemma as Prince Lazarus when he called the prince's dinner. I understand your laughter as a misunderstanding. We cannot live so long that we understand what really happened, but we can live as long as it takes to clarify that this decision is shameful and harmful, and that all those who participate in this help those who destroy Serbia further. So I think today we need everything we can, all of us here, to make sure we properly explain what's been going on in Kosovo and Metohija for centuries, for years, especially in the last few months. What is happening there today is called the creation of a new state, which will not be under our jurisdiction and which we can no longer return to our country of origin and to the Serbian people, as the nation of origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8082	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8083	Dear fellow Members of the People, with a small delay, I come to you with a proposal and an appeal, because some people before me, who could also be referred to by this appeal and invitation, spoke before me. I call on the opposition MPs, who until 24 September, to exercise power in this country, to refrain from participating in this agenda debate today. They simply do not have the moral right to say a single word about it, because today, or more precisely, from January 22nd to the day today, in fact, with various legislative acts here, we are correcting mainly the mistakes they have made, which they have left us with, and the most difficult mortgage is exactly Kosovo. Please, I just need to remind you that the problem of Kosovo has been abandoned and released from Gazimestan, that of these people who are in opposition today while still exercise power, inadequate means of solving Kosovo's problems, those funds for which the international community had no understanding at all, did not want to support them. I'll remind you that from your ranks we'll be sent...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8084	Mr. Trnavevich, we're talking constitutional frameworks, please don't go that way in the debate, most kindly please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8085	From the ranks of today's opposition, there was a threat that we would send four Chetnic divisions to Kosovo, that we too would bomb Vienna, which gave them the creamworth to bomb us and take over those taking care of Kosovo. So I don't think you have the moral right to plead today and speak. Besides, I know what you might hear. Let us, who are not to blame for what happened in Kosovo today, discuss this conclusion and show the world that, as we are, returning to the administrative zone towards Kosovo, all four zones have shown one sense of co-operation, to respect the fact that all citizens living in this Republic must have equal rights, etc., that we will also be able to convince the international community that with full right we will be able to return, in the spirit of Resolution 1244, to exercise sovereignty over that part of Serbia and Yugoslavia. I would also like to say that I have a proposal to enter in this conclusion one position, which could read like this - the National Assembly is asking the Serbian Government, asking the government of Yugoslavia, to request, through its UN representative in the Security Council, the examination of the consent of the Constitutional Frameworks for Kosovo, to examine compliance with Resolution 1244, which guarantees Yugoslavia's sovereignty over that part of Yugoslavia, or Kosovo. This is my proposal, and otherwise, we are going to lose a lot of time today in some mere, empty rhetoric, which means nothing and which could only be able in that international public, which closely monitors what is said in this assembly and what currents and winds are blowing, only makes the situation difficult and that impression, which we have already gained, down in the south, in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, spoils and slows down the whole process of reintegration of Kosovo, not so quickly, but one day. Here, that's my proposal and appeal. Thank you. [[The People's MP Vojislav Seselj is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8086	There is no basis for replication, don't go to replicas, we have time to discuss. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has run a deleted space between the blinded cabinets and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia building and appeared at this session without loss, I hope. The Prime Minister appeared three times in the National Assembly and honored the MPs of his presence and the presence of ministers, who make up his cabinet. Once he brought us into major accidents with the government's choice, which he proposed, the second time he called on us to, for God's sake, stop the adoption of constitutional frameworks, and today, for the third time, when we should comment on a God-fearing comment of the constitutional frameworks, which was delivered to us at our disposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here, Mr Djindjic will remain remembered as a man who has always brought bad news to this parliament, but it is a good thing he brought in ministers this time, to record cameras on which he will remain a historical responsibility for the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. I was a boy, perhaps a child, when the SFRY stronger, patriotically stood up for the Citizens' Croats for the Lužički Serbs, than the Serbian government does today for both Serbs and the Metohija. And there are no Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija who do not feel rejected, despised and stateless and countryless. Should I tell you that there are only 30 more Serbian houses in Kosovo, and that 20 years ago there was only one Albanian. Do I have to tell you that in Prizren Serbs live either within a circle of church property, or 200 metres from there, each carrying a special whistle, which, when attacked by Albanians, whistles to get a KFOR patrol? Do I have to tell you that this is where a child who thinks he's 12 years old lives? If I were Prime Minister, I would suggest, dear sir, that I was Prime Minister, and I wouldn't be Prime Minister if I didn't know what to suggest. That's the problem with today's government. The government hasn't defined our goals, so let's say we accept them, we don't accept them, they're feasible or not, we ask a clear and open question to the government -- do we accept or do we not accept the constitutional frameworks of Hans Hackerup? Acceptance would be the reason for the government's shift, because if the government says we don't accept it, we're asking you to help us not accept it, then what's next. I have a proposal for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's time for a referendum. We don't trust you at all, that you're solving this issue. You're pushing this question into the seal. You invented a crisis in southern Serbia in three Serb municipalities, you withdrew from the Land Area of Security, brought groups of Shiparas to make terrorist acts, to distract the public of the Republic of Serbia so-called. South Serbia and, of course, Macedonia. We spend 15 to 20 minutes a day watching what happens in Macedonia. Kosovo and Metohija, which are the cancer of the Serb people's wounds, pain, souls, pride, history and the future, Kosovo and Metohija have no place on state media. They have no place in the speeches of politicians. They have someone like this, as did the minister of justice, and for one trip to Rambuje against whom the SRS voted, a delegation representing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a lot of humiliation towards other peoples and minorities, finds that they were only there, and I don't know what first nationality he mentioned, but the second mentioned the Egyptians. The delegation consisted of all Kosovo and Metohija residents, who were in favour of keeping Serbia sovereign in Kosovo and Metohija. There were both Serbs and Albanians and Muslims and Roma and Gorans, there were Egyptians, and there are also today in Kosovo. Is that a reason to laugh? Is that why DHSS is attacking these people? When the SRS entered the government of the Republic of Serbia, in which is New Democracy, the SPS and the JUL, 30% of Kosovo and Metohija territory was occupied by terrorists. They stopped cars, pulled people out, killed, beaten, kidnapped until these people disappeared. Not even today is the fate of those people who disappeared. At the time, it was a patriotic act to enter the government of the Republic of Serbia. We could have written letters to the whole world, to Bill Clinton every night, and they would have taken Kosovo and the Metohija from us. When we entered the government of the Republic of Serbia on two occasions, we completely broke down terrorists, so the police and military legs entered into parts of Kosovo and Metohija, where it had not been since World War II. When we entered the government of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija were discussed several times in this assembly. The old assembly called a referendum and asked the citizens of the Republic of Serbia if they wanted Serbia to solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija on its own or to internalise it? The citizens of the Republic of Serbia have resolved, my dear gentlemen, so the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in a referendum, which none of you dared to say was faked, because it wasn't, decided that Serbia was solving itself, so we defended Kosovo and Metohija, and where luck was that they listened to Serbian radicals, to defend them to the end, so our children sang in the markets of Serbian cities as bombs fell, so much morale was in the Serbian people and trust in the government in which they worked. This is what Serbia looks like when the SRS participates in one government. This is what Serbia looks like, when it participates in the government with a stake and a rope of 18 parties, so I dare say it throws away someone who doesn't even have 5,000 votes, so it's still being put here as "the whip of God" and threatens Serbian radicals. Who introduced him to the Serbian Parliament, who brought him to power? Vojislav Kostunica and DSS. That's the historic responsibility of you gentlemen, who have the president of the Assembly and the president of the SRJ, from which you won't be able to hide. We're discussing Kosovo and Metohija, and the Vojvodina autonomists come out here and say that's what's waiting for us in Vojvodina. You don't mind that. You're moving on. You're in a state of mind. You urged us to talk, to prevent the adoption of the Constitutional Framework. Then I asked you from this pay phone -- what happens if you bring the Constitutional Framework? The Serbian government must have the answer to that question. The Constitutional Framework is now in place. Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have an answer to that question? The easiest thing to say is, we don't want to argue with the world. Is there a end here? Every host, when they turn the bandits into the house and they want to take his property, rape his wife and daughter, he fights even though he knows they're stronger, he loses his head, but he fights, he doesn't say, "Shut up, kids, just don't beat me." What kind of government did we get? Did you at least solve our economic and social problems, so people, you know, here's what, they sold Kosovo and Metohija, but that's why we have pensions, salaries, kids go to school for free, they don't pay college 4, 5,000 marks, did you agree on how to sell out state property...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8088	Talk a little bit about the constitutional framework, Mr. Tomic. You've completely forgotten about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8089	Mr. Tomic will be here in the next session, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8090	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8091	Did you at least agree on who would smuggle cigarettes, who would smuggle oil, Mr. Djindjic, when the monopoly was put on it? Did you at least make a deal? Don’t bring such a big subject to the MPs of the National Assembly, you have no answer for it. Bring us some change, where MPs will sit in the Serbian Parliament, how long the debate, who has the right to replica, will be able to do so. To run the country, you're not capable of it, dear Mr. Marshic, that's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8092	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vucic, followed by MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a strange way this proposal came before the MPs today, in a strange way everything was going on about the topic we're talking about today, in a strange way because the MPs of the SRS, several of them and the deputy head of the parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic, including myself, spoke and asked for the first of all parliamentary groups to schedule this session, in which we would of course have a different legal act that we would adopt. But a legal act that would produce some results, which would sublime certain goals, which the state should set for itself. No one paid attention to that, and no one wanted to talk about it. Then suddenly, some others went out for a pay phone, so you took a break, so you decided when and how to proceed, so the third proposer showed up. It is good that the government has come out with its proposal, but I must say that this proposal is a conclusion, a bill of law that is before the MPs, at least mild, unmistakable and slightly pointless. Why is that pointless? I'm going to ask a very pragmatic question, and there's no one to answer. As we have done for the adoption of the Resolution, the general legal act of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that is what will happen if none of our requests, if none of our requests, are respected. What is it that we're going to do, what is the goal that we have to achieve in front of who we can't go to. There are no such serious and responsible policies in this act. There's a pretty weird way to talk about what's supposed to be, pray Hans Hackerup, as if he's deciding on it. Well, none of us are so stupid or naive that we think Hans Hekerup brought these constitutional frameworks for Kosovo and Metohija. Hans Hekerup was one of the couriers who might have brought it out at a press conference, read and shared it with reporters. That's what the U.S. administration did. That's what those who are your friends did and who you call a democratic world today. That's what you need to tell the people and the citizens of Serbia. No one should be hiding behind some Hans Hackerup, so now our people think they should hate Hans Hackerup or I don't know who. That poor bastard has no idea what he was reading. Or he has a clue as far as he knew he could talk about it in front of the press. You DOS guys know that as much as I do. As you know, the plans for southern Serbia were neither made by Halimi nor by anyone else, but by Sean Sullivan. You know that, too. I don't understand why you don't say it, because you know everything, just like you throw. Then why don't you tell our people? You're very smart, and our people are stupid, so he doesn't have to know. We're all stupid here, so we shouldn't have it on paper, but we should think Hans Hackerup said it, so we should criticize him... What is said that this constitutional framework is not a good foundation, I would say it is a disaster. For anyone who's been practicing law, it's perfectly clear what this means. This is an open preparation for Kosovo and Metohija's independence. In order to tell the people, because they don't have the opportunity to hear and see in the media, thank God, all the media are under your control, freed and democratic, I have to say what it is that contains constitutional legal frameworks. So there will be a special assembly in Kosovo and Metohija, the president of Kosovo, the government, courts and other bodies and institutions established by this constitutional framework. What does that mean? A complete legislative, complete executive, full judicial authority is in the hands of the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija. Why did I tell Shipara? Because the assembly is elected as follows: out of a hundred twenty MPs, 100 MPs will be from those parties and coalitions that receive so many votes under the proportional electoral system that they can get those mandates. So, they're going to be won by the Ship's Party. I don't know, Rugovia's 40-term party, Thaci's 30s, Harabini's 20s and someone else's 10s. The Serbs are nowhere. Serbs will be able to hold 10 mandates of 120, or possibly, in proportion to one, two or three mandates. What can they decide? Nothing, because two-thirds of the MPs can make a decision on the borders, on the constitution and on any other key issues for Kosovo that this constitutional framework is making. Now it shows what we can answer without talking, I'll read it (I think it's good for the citizens). It's a temporary institution called the so-called temporary institution. self-rule, read the states... Economic and financial policy, fiscal and budgetary policy, administrative and operational activities - regarding customs, will no longer be carried out by UNMIK, this will be done by the Kosovo State - internal and external trade, trade, industry and investment, education, science and technology, youth and sport, culture, health and environmental protection, social spheres, social activities, etc. So that's what's being prepared in Kosovo and Metohija and that's what we have to tell people. Not to hide and say that we will deal with it as in southern Serbia. Don't deal with it like in southern Serbia, there are only problems in southern Serbia. Tell the people that in Presevo, when you're talking about a multiethnic cop, that that cop is not as multiethnic as you say it is, it's a Shiparian cop, because 94 are Shipari, and 6 are Serbs. Or, if you want a smaller number, around 19 are Shipari, and one is a Serb. If it's a multiethnic cop, then you're right, but it doesn't seem like multiethnicity to me. Next, I'd say there's nothing that's the key. What are we gonna do if we don't get this act back? Remember, the last time we adopted the resolution, two days later, someone delayed the adoption of the Constitutional Framework for two days. All the media started talking about the great success of our diplomacy. It hasn't been three days, constitutional frameworks have been adopted, the media has been silent, they won't say they even have monetary policy, that their currency will be called "dardan". That's the decision they've made, they have the right by the constitutional frameworks and regulations to do it any way they want. They have their own police service, they have their own Kosovo Protection Corps. They take care of public order and peace themselves, they take care of who has who has the right to carry a weapon. I must tell some, who are constantly talking about some who have the right and some who do not have the right to speak, all MPs in this congregation have the right to speak. I know that you would like to have others in your opposition, those who will constantly praise you or who will criticise the opposition, especially radicals, rather than you. I know these suits suit you, but you can support them for as long as you like. But don't forbid us to talk because we'll never do it, no matter what you do. I must tell you that as far as the SRS, its MPs and what it has done in the last two years, therefore, before the war, during the war and after the war, that none of the members of the SRS, was an MP or anything else, refused the call for mobilization, did not refuse an invitation to fight for his country. The one to whom it would have happened would have been excluded from the SRS. Don't talk about it, because life for the Serbian homeland in Kosovo and Metohija has been given by Serbian Radical Party MP Dragan Milunovic -- Jule of Kursumija, as the reserve commander of the battalion in Kosovo and Metohija. Don't tell us about it. Don't tell us about it. And he's not the only one, he's a lot of even the president of the municipal and local committees of the SRS, and that's what you could get to know, just to watch TV and read the paper, just like the SRS. [[You're not the only one.]] They were tortured alive, killed by Cypriot terrorists, and especially because they belonged, among other things, to the Serbian Radical Foreigner. But it was the fate of all Serbs. You can't understand that. I just have to say that everything the government has suggested to us as a conclusion, if it's going to have any effect, it might make sense to adopt such an act, but I'm saying and I'm saying it won't have any effect. If the resolution failed, it was relatively correct, especially corrected text that was much better than the initial text that came before the MPs. So if we couldn't use that text to tell those you call a democratic world, which I would say anything, just not that it's democratic. On the contrary, I have much more arguments than you have. Except that they like to call themselves "democratic", as you like to call your parties and write under their names. So it seems to me that we will have no results, no effects, that the government will once again show its condescendingness, humility and that it must obey the orders of those who want Kosovo's secession and the Metohija from Serbia. It's not a question that was from Gazimeston, but it's a question of those who did it in Tito's day and those before Tito, it's too old a question to accuse one man of all the misfortunes that have happened to our people. It seems to me that such a simplified understanding shows concern for everything that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. As you can see, you have failed to ban opposition MPs from talking about it, and you will not succeed in the future. But we hope, and it would be good if the government could do anything about Kosovo and Metohija. However, it is becoming clear to us, and it is obvious that the government neither wants nor can nor wants to help our people, nor to take anything seriously to preserve our country. It is no longer just a question of our people, our people, I end up, therefore, those people who remain in Kosovo and Metohija, but it is a question of whether there will be Serbian states in Kosovo and Metohija, whether it will ever be able to survive and remain Serbian or not. If you continue with this kind of policy, I'm sure this attempt to do anything about it today won't bear fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8094	The word has a folk MP Dragan Marsicanin, after which Ljubomir Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8095	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President, members of the government, I will not speak of responsibility, nor the content of the constitutional frameworks, we all got it, read it, analyzed it, and we know what they mean. What is the fact that it should remind citizens of the Serbian state, the part that is in Kosovo, lies on two stones. One stone is Resolution 1244, the other is democratic power in Serbia. None of those two stones should get away from us, because that part of the building is about to collapse. It was mentioned here that every country, including our state, has two possible strategies to resolve national and national issues, which are: confrontations with the world or co-operation with the international community. But even when we're defined for one concept, we shouldn't forget that there are two sub-conceptions in it, so to speak. It is one that is based on co-operation with the international community, with a firm and full responsibility to the national and state issues and the other, which attaches little less importance to the issue. My intervention, my suggestions, which I will make on the working group, to correct the conclusions that we have received from the government, are going in this very direction that the policy that we are about to determine here today carries this full responsibility, national and state. I'll focus your attention on three points. At point 1, where the proposal says, "The document "The constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija does not constitute a good legal basis for protecting the freedom and rights of Serbs and other ethnic communities". Of course, that's absolutely true. However, it is also more than true, which is that the constitutional framework is contrary to Resolution 1244, because it prejudges Kosovo's final status, contrary to what the resolution found. In this respect, we in no way should just be able to accept the Constitutional Framework by means of this formulation, essentially and in fact. If such a formulation remains, it would mean, in my belief, that the National Assembly has accepted the Constitutional Framework. In that regard, I think we need to make a statement, not in some very firm version. All variations are possible, even the hardest, but I'm never in favour of such a solution. I just think we have to say that this text is unacceptable by its essence. So, we do not reject the document, we leave room for the document to be accepted, but as the government has suggested in point 2, we propose that an additional debate be held, that the text be improved and additional guarantees be introduced for Serbs living in Kosovo, as well as representatives of all other national communities. The second point in which I find it possible to get a significant improvement, is point 6, in which this definition, as proposed, is a clear statement of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that Serbia will be recommended and that in these circumstances the elections for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are acceptable. I think it's something the National Assembly can't and shouldn't say. I think an improvement would be if we said that the National Assembly believes that holding elections, which would be part of all national communities, would be their common interest, which it is, but at the same time confirmed that KFOR and UNMIK did not provide minimum conditions that allow Serbs to go to such elections. In order to achieve this, it is required that civil and military authorities, without delay, form a return programme for the exiled and access to its realization, as well as to provide conditions for the safe life of all citizens, in accordance with the obligations set out in Resolution 1244. Third, what I wanted to draw attention to, and what I think we can also reach a common position and agreement on, is point 8, where the Government proposal says concrete measures will be taken to achieve the functions of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, particularly in terms of taxes, customs and goods exchange. I think that we must do something more precise and more binding than the Government to say, as I intend on the task force to propose, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to lead politics, primarily in the areas of education, health, traffic, trade, finance, culture, which strengthens and extends ties between Kosovo and Metohija to other parts of Serbia, in order to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the SRJ, and in accordance with Resolution 1244. That's what I wanted to say at this point. I hope that the task force we formed will make these improvements in the direction that I initially pointed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8096	The word is made by MP Ljubomir Mirkovic, and then by MP Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8097	Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, Government Ministers, I am Ljubomir Mirkovic of Peći, MP of the Serbian Unity Party. Since I enjoy the status of an exiled person, I will talk about the problems of the exiled Serbs. In fact, I believe that the position of the exiled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, who are currently staying in Serbia, will have a major impact on the final outcome of Kosovo's "problem". In ten days, it will be two years after around 200,000 Serbs, along with the military and police, left Kosovo and Metohija. These people, including me, have destroyed the entire property of the Ship's terrorists, and most tragically, many families have lost their loved ones. In those days, while tractor columns broke through police cordons to reach the Kingdom, Kragujevac, Belgrade or Novi Sad, state television broadcast reports on the alleged return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. This, to say the least, was a hint of a number of troubles that the state of Serbia will now cause neither guilty nor debtors from Kosovo and Metohija. Within ten days, the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija will "mark" and the two-year anniversary of their torments, organised by their own state, treating them as second-class citizens. In two years, Serbia has not resolved the housing issue of any family from Kosovo and Metohija. Apartments and employment were received only by prominent representatives of the former government in the province, which contributed rather to the tragic outcome of the Kosovo-Metochy crisis. Tens of thousands of workers employed in Kosovo and Metohija today do not receive any money. The help of the Red Cross is more than halved, and in NGOs and associations there are various malversions around the sharing of assistance. In collective centres, there are no elementary conditions for normal life. The children are suffering from various diseases, and the old ones are dying of sadness and despair. From day to day, these people are getting harder and harder to live without any hope that better days will come for them or that they will return to their homeland. And only the exiled Serbs, if they are allowed to return to their homeland, along with Serbs who remain on their hearths, can preserve Serbia's Kosovo and Metohija. However, due to the state's lack of concern and under pressure and blackmail from Cypriot terrorists, they were forced to post-why they sell their properties in Kosovo and Metohija. According to unofficial data, more than 3,000 Serbian houses, apartments and bars have been sold in Cosmet for the past two years. Most of them sold their property so they could eat, school or heal their sick. Dear colleagues, if the state of Serbia continues to continue to treat Kosovo and Metohija as a mother, all political initiatives aimed at keeping Cosmet within Serbia-Yugoslavia's borders will be in vain, as all Serbian assets in Kosovo and Metohija will be sold out and Serbs will have nowhere to go. Significant assistance should also be given to Serbs who remain in Kosovo and Metohija. They are trying at the cost of their lives to defend the foundations of Serbian states, to preserve the historical heritage and the soul of the Serbian people. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have been hostage for decades to the wrong policy of the Serbian state and to the daily abuse of Albanian criminals. The situation in Kosovo and Metohija has been used for years by many political parties, either from the position or from the opposition, to gain cheap political points. The consequences of such relationships today are more than tragic. Two years ago, when the unsightly Serbian column left Pec and Metohija, I witnessed a suicide in front of his children at the entrance to Rosaya, after saving his family.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8098	Mr. Mirkovic, I must ask you, however, it has been four minutes, to discuss constitutional frameworks and what kind of attitude we should take, what orders to the government and what demands to the international community to put out, not to talk about what we really, unfortunately, all of us know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8099	I urge that state authorities engage in the care of all families whose members have died or have been kidnapped in Cosmet. I don't think you should forget the tragedies, like the massacre of six boys who were killed in a Panda cafe on December 14, 1998. Unfortunately, Serbs from Cosmeta remain rightly indignant at all state and national institutions in Serbia. Defetism, which according to Cosmet, rules in the Serbian public, fully goes hand in hand to the Shiparian separatists and terrorists, and particularly UNMIK and KFOR, gives Kosovo and Metohija an ethnic cleansing and secession from Serbia-Yugoslavia. This tragic truth best bears witness to the recent adoption of the constitutional framework, which gave the Cypriots all attributes of statehood, from legislative, assembly, Kosovo president, armed forces, anthem, flags, currencies, etc. To such solutions, Serbian politicians, writers, journalists, priests, academics, students and ordinary citizens must not be silent. Serbian silence is currently the strongest weapon for the Shiptar terrorists and separatists. The international public should be made clear, without straining, that both Serbs will never, at no cost, deny Kosovo and Metohija, the Pećke Patriarchy, Gazimestan and Gracanica. The Serbian Unity Party proposes to the National Assembly and the Government of Serbia a declaration, in which, among other things, it seeks the following: 1. He strongly opposes the announced general elections in Cosmet, scheduled for 17 November 2001. The elections should be supported when all Kosovo exiles return to their homes, when conditions for a safe and normal life are allowed. Going to the elections under the current conditions would mean giving legitimacy to the creation of an Albanian independent state in Cosmet, completely separate from Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. 2. Every day, in every situation, our officials need to seek the application of Resolution 1244 and the return of the troops of Yugoslavia and the police to create conditions for the return to Cosmet of all exiled and refugees Serbs, Montenegrins, Gorans, Roma and others. It's all written in Resolution 1244, but it's not applied, much of it, and because our country treats Cosmet with very little attention, recklessly and irresponsiblely. 3. That the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of Serbia are present at Cosmet, that our ministers go to Cosmet, that our people see them, that our martyrs and heroes, who stayed at Cosmet, feel that the state of Serbia is behind them. The following must be done urgently for Serbs in Cosmet: a) an urgent agreement should be reached with KFOR and UNMIK to ensure the basic right of Serbs, the right to life and security; b) Serbia must provide urgent humanitarian assistance to Serbs in the enclaves of Cosmet, as many have lost basic provisions for life. 4. The dream of every persecuted Serb is to return to Cosmet. Until then, the Serbian government should change its non-human relationship with refugees, Serbs living as citizens of second order in Serbia: (a) The government should hire those Serbs who are unemployed and on the same jobs they worked on in Cosmet; (b) those who do not receive, pay guaranteed salaries; (v) resolve those who are exiled in co-operation with UNHCR, because many live in collective accommodations, in conditions of unworthy people; (g) provide refugees with benefits for the payment of electricity and communals; (d) in co-operation with UNHCR and other organisations to find a solution for the reparation of refugees, because all their property remained in Cosmet. 5. To exert constant pressure on UNMIK and KFOR to shed light on the fate of more than 1,300 abducted Serbs and other non-Albanians. Six. Not to release another convicted Albanian from prison in Serbia until the kidnapped and arrested Serbs are released in Cosmet, who are in prisons or working in camps. Seven. To take measures against those who invent ice-colders full of Albanian corpses in the lake at Kokino's boat and to stop unargumented accusing soldiers and police officers of alleged war crimes. Let individuals be punished if they are guilty, but by doing so, they throw themselves at all the soldiers and police officers who defended Cosmet, and these unverified accusations are already widely used by our enemies as evidence that the Serbs deserved the bombing. 8. That all political parties are unique when the solution to the Cosmet problem is at issue, that at least on this point we agree and take a common position that Cosmet is an inseparable part of Serbia and that we fight in a peaceful and diplomatic way to make it so, but that this fight is day-to-day, energetic, continuous, not as shy, mild, lifeless and insufficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8100	The People's MP Predrag Canovic has the word, and after him, the MP Mirko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8101	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the attitude of the international community, the attitude of Western forces towards Kosovo and Metohija should be seen in the context of their overall relationship with Serbian national interests, and it is known what their relationship to our national interests has been like, especially in the last 10 years. That part of the international community, led by the United States, allowed the former Yugoslavia to disintegrate. He allowed and allowed Croatians and Slovenians to create their own state, which they had never had, and in doing so he took away the constitutional right of self-distribution from the Serbian people as a constituent people. With all that, there's been a punishment, first years of sanctions, and then cowardly bombing. If so, and so, I don't see who else could believe that the Western forces of Kosovo and Metohija will be just and will respect our interests and our history. Therefore, we are not surprised at the Western attempts to impose a constitutional solution on both Kosovo and Metohija through Hans Hekerup and similar ones, which will correspond exclusively to the Shiptars. They are simply not interested in our national interests and our national history, although they all know well that Serbia actually varksled from Kosovo and that the Patriarchate had existed several centuries before America was discovered. The whole world knows well that Kosovo and Metohija are the source and symbol of everything that makes us Serbs and Christians. Unfortunately, it means nothing to today's Western powers. What exactly is this part of the international community, known as the NATO Pact, asking us to do? They demand that we voluntarily give up the works of our territory, our Kosovo and Metohija, all because of some alleged humanitarian disaster and some alleged ethnic cleansing, which would be carried out by Serbs over the Shiptars. It is true that there was ethnic cleansing in Kosovo, but not by Serbs, but by Shipara, who have been persecuting Serbs from their centuries-old hearths for decades. Where was this democratic America at the time, where was NATO's pact to save Serbs from these Shiptarian terrorists? Of course, they were nowhere to be found. The key question here is, is there even one state that would voluntarily give up the works of its territory? Of course it doesn't exist. Not long ago, England declared war on Argentina because of the Fokland Islands, although there is no population on the Fokland Islands, but those islands had some strategic significance and it was quite enough for England to declare war on a sovereign country, and we are asked to voluntarily give up the most vital part of the Serbian country. Lately, some ethnic law has been mentioned frequently in the case of Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, that is what some of our political leaders preach. The concept of ethnic law is in fact an imaginary concept, through which the Shiptars want to be given territorial rights on Serbian territory, on the Serbian country. If such a principle of ethnic law were applied, it would mean that no state can be sure that it will remain within the existing borders, because it is never known whether a national minority in a country will multiply so much that it will gain that ethnic right and later seek to exercise territorial law. Where does this principle of ethnic law apply in the world? It is obviously a novelty of the West that aims to end internationally recognised borders and which is applied on purpose where necessary. After all, let America apply this principle of ethnic law on its territory. They've got Mexicans, Indians, blacks, so they're free to go. One is the fact that the Shipari are a national minority in Serbia and make up the majority population in Kosovo and Metohija. The question arises, how did they become the majority population in Kosovo and Metohija? They became an exorcism and killing Serbs. By ethnic cleansing, they created what they say is an ethnic right, which now simply wants to materialize. We in the Serbian Unity Party are opposed to dividing Kosovo and Metohija into entities. Kosovo and Metohija represent a unique Serbian continent that is impossible to share. Is it possible to separate the high Decenna from the Samoodreža or Lazarica from the Pećka Patriarchy? Of course not. Cruel is the truth that Kosovo and Metohija are currently under the occupation of the NATO Pact and the Cypriot terrorists. But history tells us that every occupation, fortunately, has its beginning and end. So, occupation, it's only temporary, not permanent loss of some territory. You can permanently lose some territory only in the event of a voluntary landing of a country where that territory is located. After all, we were under Turkish slavery for 500 years, so we eventually freed ourselves of this slavery, and we will free ourselves of this occupation in Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, that struggle for freedom has never been easy. On the contrary, it was long-lasting, heavy, exhausting, sometimes it takes two, three or more generations to achieve the historical right of a nation. At this point, when Western forces ask us to agree to form an Albanian state on our country, it is very important that our government does not sign a single document that would recognise that Kosovo and Metohija are not an integral part of Serbia. It is important that they do not sign any documents that would recognise Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state. That's what this government can do. In this way, we retain the historical right to once later, naturally in some changed international circumstances, once again ask the question of our sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. That historical right no one can take away from us. Therefore, it should be made clear that sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija has been taken from us temporarily, and that we will never agree with such a fact. No government has the right, no one has the right to put a signature on the loss of our territory. The fact that someone is in power now does not automatically mean that he has acquired the deed in Kosovo and Metohija, that he can share it as his homeland. The government is a variable category, the government will change in Serbia, but Kosovo and Metohija must remain in Serbia. Therefore, in the current government there is a great historical responsibility, these days, the fate of our country is resolved these weeks. What is now decided, which is now signed, goes into history, and it is known that it cannot be rewritten. Kosovo, and we have no reason to be ashamed of our history and to deny it, is today the largest Serbian googogue and the largest Serbian camp, but all those who think we have forgotten and have given up our country's cradles. As Dr Radovan Karadzic recently wrote in a letter to Patriarch Paul, he will endure this people, not because someone would urge him to do so, but because there is no other choice. (The messenger, below, read the declaration in eight points, proposed on behalf of the first National Assembly by MP Ljubomir Mirkovic - sees the register. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8102	The People's Messenger Mirko Petrovic has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people, Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a matter of vital state importance. On the occasion of this issue, we cannot hide behind our parties, nor can we use this issue to score political points in the public, to increase the political rating that is lost or otherwise ask through this issue to realise our party interest. This question has been a question that has followed our people for decades, a question that has been raised by the previous, former government and the current, new government. This is a question that has not been resolved for more than 13 years, the rule of the previous government, but has often been instrumented in the fight for day-to-day policy and day-to-day interests and, I would say, the interests of extending such a government. By such a policy, our territory is excluded from state jurisdiction. That was the finale, I'd say, of one such policy. The new power, what it first tried to do and to do, is to return this issue to parliament, with faith and belief that all MPs in parliament will express their views, that they will find a common solution or common ways to resolve such a key and significant issue. In four months, as much as it has been established and how much the Republic's parliament is working, this issue is already being raised twice at the initiative of the government of the Republic of Serbia and discussed. I would like to point this out from a legal point of view to the nature of this constitutional and legal framework and to say what its consequences are. The document, the Constitutional Frameworks for Temporary Self-Government, is essentially a constructive act that creates constitutional and legal assumptions that in that part of the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, their sovereignty, the establishment of special bodies of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, which makes it impossible for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia to exercise sovereign authority over their bodies in that part of the territory. So this document also has constitutive and legal consequences. Secondly, this document comes out of the framework of UN Security Council Resolution, prejudged by Kosovo and Metohija's future status by failing to accept the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ, which has been recognised by the international community, thus creating a legal basis for the separation of the area from the SRJ. These are essential, I would say, the consequences of this document and I therefore consider that at point 1. The proposal to conclude the National Assembly of Serbia must declare constitutional and legal frameworks. Also, points 6 and 7 of the National Assembly of Serbia's conclusion must comply with the resolution, adopted by the Serbian Parliament in early May this year. I would remind you that in this resolution, we have particularly stressed that it is not acceptable to adopt any legal framework for the establishment of so-called. Autonomy, which is a liability at point 10. Resolution 1244, nor to consider any elections in Kosovo and Metohija, without having previously fulfilled obligations under point 9. Resolutions, and in particular obligations set out by points a-d, which talk about the full demilitarisation of KLAs and other armed groups, as well as the establishment of a safe environment in which exiled persons can return to their homes in conditions of secure public security and order. It would be very dangerous and very risky for us as a Assembly to prejudge our views on the election of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. The election of our people in Kosovo and Metohija could be interpreted as a way of recognising these constitutional frameworks, and I have already talked about the consequences of these constitutional frameworks. And finally to say that my belief is that the National Assembly of Serbia must refuse to recognise constitutional frameworks, both because of its content, because of their name, and because of the way they are brought in. This refusal is not an opposition to the world, it is not a opposition to our policy of co-operation and involvement in the international community, but it is our strong and clear position for the future, because of the years and times to come, for the sake of the non-rejection of our historical rights in the future, is our clear and decisive position that we must respect international standards and regulations and that we must oppose those solutions that aim to turn this part of our territory into an independent state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8104	There's a word from MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8105	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President and members of the government, respected fellow MPs, Special Representative of Secretary-General Hans Hekerup signed the document on 14 May and on the next day called "Constitutional Frameworks" for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo", and I would say in a few words that I would like to make a personal position on possible legal and political conventions stemming from this document. The legal basis for the adoption of this act is contained in point 10. Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, which is authorised by the Secretary-General to establish an international civilian presence in Kosovo, with the help of responding international organisations, to ensure temporary administration in Kosovo, with Kosovo's people able to enjoy significant autonomy within the SRJ. This temporary self-government will provide a transitional administration, setting up and overseeing the development of temporary democratic institutions of self-government to ensure conditions for the peaceful and normal life of all Kosovo residents (resolution 1244). However, in the preamble of the document constitutional frameworks, it is said that (quote) "respects the historical, legal and constitutional development of Kosovo, taking into account the legitimate aspirations of Kosovo's population to live in freedom and peace and friendly relations with other residents in the region. "This intrinsic attitude, through the conscious neglect of the fact that autonomy is secured within the SRJ, creates a political basis for the negation of territorial integrity and sovereignty of the SRJ. The preamble to this document is particularly important, which (quote) states that within the framework of the restriction, which defines Resolution 1244, responsibility will be transferred to the provisional institutions of self-government, in order to allow for the determination of Kosovo's future status by one process in the appropriate future phase, which, in agreement with Resolution 1244, will take full account of all relevant factors, including the will of the population". This view creates preconditions in a contradictory and totally unacceptable way to determine Kosovo's future status. On the one hand, it calls for Resolution 1244, which implies a political process and agreement on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija within the SRJ, but also envisions involving the will of the population as an important factor, creating a political and legal basis for the implementation of a referendum on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, and, of course, secession. The basic provisions, Chapter I of the documents, define Kosovo first as an entity under the temporary international administration, which has unique historical, legal, cultural and linguistic attributes with its population. Then, as an undivided territory, consisting of municipalities, it will be managed democratically, through legislative, executive and judicial bodies and institutions. By no chance, this position defined three basic elements of state sovereignty - population, territory and state power, in a way that absolutely denies and excludes the sovereignty of the SRJ in that part of the space, which directly violates Resolution 1244. Chapter III talks in principle about the right of all refugees and displaced persons from Kosovo to return to their homes and get their property and personal property back. This right, however, is not covered by any firm obligations and guarantees from competent institutions and bodies, and cannot be considered a real basis for the return of displaced persons. The document also identified the responsibility of temporary self-government institutions to bring their legislation and practices into line with relevant European and international standards and standards, with particular emphasis on enabling close economic, social and other links between the population of Kosovo and other Europeans, given that respect for such standards and standards will be crucial for the development of relations with the Euro-Atlantic community. Such an arrangement can be nothing more than an absolute negation of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia's constitutional justice system in Kosovo and Metohija, with a prominent NATO pact seal. Chapter VI states that maintaining public order and peace will be entrusted to the Kosovo Police Service, and Chapter VII establishes the Kosovo Protection Corps as a civilian emergency organisation. With that in mind, I'd like to say the following -- police, public security and civil security are part of the Rambouje chapter II of the paper, an unsigned Rambouje agreement. So, this Chapter II does not sign a representative of the international community, Mr Boris Majorski, well, he cannot represent absolutely any legal basis for Hans Hekerup to regulate civil and public security in this way, in the way he did it in chapters VI and VII, which significantly violates not only Resolution 1244, but also what they call the Rambuje Agreement and the obligations arising from that paper. Chapter VIII is governed by the powers of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, who, among other things, can disband the assembly, call new elections and conduct monetary policy, exercise control over UNMIK customs services, appoint and resolve judges - prosecutors, conclude agreements with other countries, manage public goods, state and social property, etc., which means, in his hands, he has concentrated almost complete power on Cosmet. As for the organisation and composition of temporary institutions of self-government, the predecessors said -- the assembly has 120 members, 100 of whom are elected according to a proportionate principle, relatively won votes, 10 mandates are reserved for what they say is the Serb ethnic community, which means 8% of the total mandates. In this way, the international community thinks that it makes it clear to all of us that, in fact, it knocks, verifies the existing ethnic composition of the population. It is obvious that if 300 thousand displaced and displaced persons from Kosovo were returned from the right to vote and if more than 200 thousand who have illegally and illegally moved from neighbouring Albania were to move to our country's territory, the ethnic structure of the population would be quite different, and certainly the division of the mandate in that future parliament. I think that through this numerical structure of the future congregation, they make it clear to us that there has been nothing since the return of the refugees and the displaced. The worst part is that this document has not prevented any of its works from majorizing. So, the assembly, the assembly's presidency, the government decides most of the votes. There is truth in the procedure for the adoption of the law, provisions that allow the dispute of laws or certain provisions that are discriminatory or negative for a particular ethnic community, but which are essentially reduced to minority votes and provide fictitious protection. As far as the president of Kosovo is concerned, it is true that in the part of self-government the institution of the president of Kosovo stands, but it also states that the president of the assembly and the president of Kosovo cannot be from the same ethnic community. And even in that part, Mr. Hackerup didn't want to respect what the international community signed, and our side didn't sign in Rambuje, which, once again, directly pushed his finger around Resolution 1244. From what I've said, the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo, which has been brought by Special Envoy of Secretary General Hans Hekerup, is, in its form and essence, an unacceptable document, from the aspect of the SPS policy and stances, and above all because it is harmful to the state interests of SRJ and Serbia and to the national interests of Serbs and non-Albanian communities in Kosovo and Metohija. It is another significant step forward in achieving one fundamentally unfair and unprincipled international community policy towards Serbia and Yugoslavia. As such, I think he must worry all of us, regardless of party membership. This document, by denying sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ, as well as giving Kosovo and Metohija almost all attributes of the state, creates a legal and political basis for secession, and is thus contrary to Security Council Resolution 1244. Among other things, it denies and amends the established conditions for the suspension of agriculture, which is guaranteed by the international community. The SPS continues to insist on strict and consistent respect for Resolution 1244, and especially in the part relating to the obligations of the international community... (President: 10 minutes and 15 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I apologize, bring an end to the return of Yugoslav and Serbian forces in Kosovo and Metohija, for disarming the remaining armed groups of Kosovo Albanians who carry out terror, establishing a security environment in which refugees and displaced persons can safely return to their homes, as well as lighting up the fate of sortsed and missing Serbs and non-Albanians. The SPS remains committed to a peaceful and political solution, it estimates that legal frameworks for temporary self-government can only be spoken seriously after meeting those obligations by the international community. So we suggest that that document be reviewed... (President: 11 minutes. )......................................................................................................... by the UN Special Representative or the UN Security Council and in line with Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, and to amend in that sense the proposal for a conclusion offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia... (President: 11 minutes and 15 seconds. )......................................................................................................... to adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8106	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and after that, MP Borisvoje Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the proposal for a conclusion delivered to the MPs by the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows how well the entire state strategy and diplomatic activity of the DOS defined. If today, in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative body, we had a proposal for some conclusions, which are nothing but a soft statement, I would say completely congruent to the Western powers, the tasks of today's government in Serbia and the SRJ. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are MPs, as the highest legislative body before the final act, because the Western forces, through their official Hans Hekerup, have brought a constitutional framework, in fact a sort of constitution of Kosovo and Metohija, to the smallest details, have elaborated it. That is all with the goal of removing Kosovo and Metohija, our southern province, from Serbia and the SRJ's state-law status completely. We warned you about this at the May 4th National Assembly session, when you adopted such a soft resolution, which you sent to Hekerup and the UN Security Council. Then we asked you from this pay phone, what happens tomorrow when Hans Hekerup and the NATO Pact tell you decisively - no. What we predicted happened. We had in mind the intentions of the Western forces. We knew nothing would change, but we still voted for some sort of resolution. But after that, they followed, and it was well heard in public, some amendments, which we Serbian radicals and our general public do not know who, when, or where, or on whose behalf they submitted them. The amendments were rejected by the Western contracting authorities of today's regime in Serbia and the SRJ. One logical question arises, to this constitution of Kosovo and the Metohija which you call the constitutional framework, who has submitted these amendments, who are these people in general. Some self-proclaimed and self-proclaimed representatives of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, who are people without moral integrity, without even a shred of honor and morality, without a general sense of nationality, and who are themselves personally and also their political option, which by Serbs and Serbian people are disastrous, do not enjoy any trust in the Serb electoral body in Kosovo and Metohija. Such people have since the beginning of the occupation of our southern province given the legitimacy and legality of the occupier authority of KFOR, closely co-operated with Shiptar terrorists in the bodies and bodies of the occupation-terrorist authorities, and as a decor in the hands of their Western bosses. All of this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has the same goal, which is that because of their high mondialist goals, Kosovo and Metohija's total secession from Serbia and the SRJ, as well as that our country is soon the only oasis in the environment of the criminal NATO alliance, is subdued and thrown on its knees. And that our country, especially the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, is transformed into a gathering centre of white-world mechanics, various spy organizations, military bases of the murderous NATO alliance. Unfortunately, Kosovo and Metohija are now under the complete occupation of the NATO Pact and the peak is this constitutional framework, as you call it, and which you, the representatives of the government -- which are only a few, only two now in the hall, are tired of after only three hours of debate on such an important, most important issue for the Serbian national interest, the survival of our country and people, therefore, which you representatives of the DOS Government by distracting the public, by blurring the facts in your public performances, you want to present as alleged outlines of future autonomy in Kosovo and Metohija, not what this constitutional framework is. And this is a outline of independent Kosovo and Metohija, as a result of the overall policy that you are leading, your diplomacy and as the finalisation of the final goal of the Western forces and their helpers in our country, to completely tear Kosovo and Metohija out of our system. You from the public, the government's representatives, are persistently hiding and saying that these are some sort of temporary legal framework. The word "temporary", which stands in the name of this phantom document and in the text itself, is according to that people's language that the Vlachs don't know. The very essence and provisions stemming from this constitutional framework, which is the Constitution of Kosovo and Metohija, the Cypriot constitution with the help of the NATO Pact, clearly state that the constitution for the full independence of a state is at stake and that Kosovo and Metohija in the future have a president, executive and legislative authority. And if anyone's serious here in this room, it looks like anything temporary. There have been various attempts before to significantly disrupt the constitutional - legal position of our southern province. These proposals and requests came from different sides. It was tried to be realized by the Shiptarian rebellions, then by various ultimatums by the Western forces, which you of DOS have accepted by hand. You were the opposition back then. Then, mental - health claims and suggestions that came from quasi-political and intellectual groups. The pledges earlier came from Kosovo and Metohija being a completely special republic, that our southern province should be divided into a Cypriot and Serbian part, to return autonomy under the 1974 Constitution, regionalisation, confederal relationship between Kosovo and Metohija and the rest of Yugoslavia, and all these proposals were actually heading towards the inalienable part of our territory being separated from Serbia and the SRJ. But, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have not yet been so cruel and brutally trampled by the Serbian tradition and our nationality, by our statehood, by our spirituality, as the representatives of the "political" DOS government do today, their speakers, such as the vice president, that poor man, Neboja Covic, who said that our country, I quote... (President: I ask the MP to take care of the terms used and in which anyone is mentioned. )......................................................................................................... That our country must give up its rights and tell us who it is and where it lived in the old and Middle Ages in a dim Danube." By carrying out the tasks of your Western bosses, your DOS government places a new thesis, which is that the Shipari are the majority people in Kosovo and Metohija only because they are currently more numerous and more numerous there, that they have ethnic rights, and that the Serbian people and states, I will again quote Nebojsa Covic "... They have no eternal deed over Serbian cities, churches, monasteries, historical monuments." So, as a rescue solution, you from the DOS government, for "a peace in the house", see the division of Kosovo and Metohija in both the Cypriot and Serbian parts. Such a view of things, with all that I have previously listed, is the highlight of the treasonous action of political parties that are gathered today in the so-called so-called ". DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8108	I ask the MP to compare the force of the epithet that he gives to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8109	That's true, whether you like it or not. We, the Serbian radicals and the decent Serbian people, have never and will never give up ethnic, constitutional, or international-public rights, which are so flagrantly violated in Kosovo and Metohija. For us, Serbian Radicals, for me as a Serbian patriot, who I was raised in the spirit of Serbia, in the spirit of Orthodoxism, which, like many others in our country, I grew up with a myth and legend about Kosovo and Metohija, was never there, nor would there be dilemmas whose Kosovo and Metohija, what rights Serbs should have in Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are Serbian sanctity, the source of Serbian national consciousness, our statehood, our identity, and we Serbian radicals in that sense, politically defined, and in every other sense, we have acted all over the past 10 years. And then, when all Serbian countries were threatened and attacked, both Kosovo and Metohija, not saving their lives, and you, gentlemen of the political group, so-called. The DOS, in all that time, had a diametrically opposite attitude towards this and all other issues, as you today have on the Serbian national issue and on the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia and the SRJ.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8110	The word has been issued by MP Borisvoje Mijatovic, followed by MP Milisav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8111	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, listening to the choir of radical whining over Kosovo, I must tell you that in this respect I will be completely different and completely dissonant. I don't see this document as bad as it's shown here. First of all, whether it's a constitutional framework or it's an ordinary legal framework, our Federal Foreign Ministry explained it in the end. If we can remove the constitutional framework, let it be in this conclusion. But it doesn't matter. I can tell you that this document from preamble to completion, to final provisions, was made by the standards of the most perfect constitutional and legal system, respecting the Charter of the UN, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all the pacts that have, in the meantime, since European integration exists, signed by all countries... It's all here. In this respect, this document could be called the "octrossed" frame, given each point of this document. And you know, the wrought constitution was the Book of Milosha, and the Book of Nicholas, where it is said, "This is how it will be if the master decides otherwise." And here you are. Wherever the conflict is in terms of decision-making, the SPGS decides and it is clear throughout this material as a day. And he is a UN representative, and in this respect, the majority of Albanians will not have any rights. What is important, we as a state, the Serbian Government, must agree with the international community, that the issues of return of Serbs and the participation of displaced persons are taken seriously, because we have to go out to these elections, this is a fellow from the Socialist Party well noticed, the number of 300-400 thousand inhabitants and how important it is to us. Right now, I need you to access what I need right now in this conclusion that we're looking for. Because it states here that all displaced persons have the right to return to the territory where they came from. What I'm trying to say is why this moratorium was so difficult and unhappy. [[Sagar.]] We now have a very positive example in southern Serbia. Practically, our army is all the way across the border. I must read to you what is important here: "In my guidelines and in the practice of the provisional institution of self-government should be managed by the need to improve co-existence, to support reconciliation between communities and to enable communities to preserve and develop their identity. "What is your policy? Let's get back to Kosovo by force. That's what you'll never experience. Don't throw it away, please. Why did you flee Kosovo? Mr. Nikolic, I listened directly to you on the radio, when you were in a campaign in Kosovo, when you said -- it was only enough for our three Chetnic brigades armed to the teeth to pass through Kosovo, all Albanians will cross the Curse. That's what you said in 1997. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8112	Mrs Natasa Jovanovic is entitled to a replica. That's the name. You're not mentioned. It was a flammable speech. He didn't say his name. We've got 30 registered speakers, you'll all be talking. In your discussion, you can look back on other attitudes. Mr. Mijatovic also looked back on my position, so I can't ask for a replica because he looked back. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I am mentioned by last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it is evident that there is a right to replication, there really is no question left. But there's no such thing as a replica. It's running away. First, I never said, in any campaign or anywhere on the radio, that three Chetnic divisions would disperse terrorists from Kosovo and Metohija. I said, when the Serbian Radical Party wins, half will immediately flee to Albania. That's what happened. Secondly, as the predecessor speaks of reconciliation, he should first go to Herceg Novi and make peace with the citizens of Herceg Novi who took the money to bring them water. He charged hard money to provide water for Herzeg Novi, so you who go to the sea, I'm not going, ask Mr. Herceg Novi why there's never a drop of water today. If you are already a scientist, you better justify your participation in science, don't mess with this pay phone with people who are doing this professionally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8114	The People's MP Milisav Petkovic has the word, and after him, the MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8115	For ten years many have spoken here, for ten years they have tried, and now they honor us for having this document as it is. What's this document like this? We're not going to say for sure that he's great, and we don't think that there are solutions in him that we wish they were. But what's causing him to be like this? What reasons have we today, the MPs in this congregation, not been able to bring a better document? As far as we have defended these Serbs in Kosovo should now be silent, for at least an hour, this parliament to remain silent, both sides. The DOS winner's side should be silent as soon as possible, which has not done anything before to protect the Serb animal and Serbs in Kosovo. I worked for two years at Trepchi, and I know perfectly what conditions they live in. I know perfectly why we're forced to adopt this document today. For what? Because the Serbian national issue has not been discussed in this parliament in the past 10 years. At DOS time, in 100 days - twice. Why couldn't we talk sooner? Why did we let this document be adopted today? We allowed it because some had reasons for war in Kosovo. The more disaster and war in our sad Yugoslavia, the more days of their rule. The people were only afraid of wars, of mobilizations, and thus contributed to the fact that we were not dealing with the right topics. The Serbian national issue in this house has not been settled once. All of this was settled with Mr Milosevic in Dedinj. That's why today we have the consequences we have. Those who supported him, whose parties he founded, to whom he bestowed in these parties, let them...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8116	Please, let's talk constitutional frameworks. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: This on Dusan Mihajlovic's thoughts. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8117	Dear President, do not expect MPs to say anything about this document to say - this document is good or to say - we support this document without explaining the reasons why we have to adopt this document. I am an MP here in Parliament for the second time, which means five years, and I have this parliamentary experience to stick to the agenda. Don't honor me if I'm on the agenda if we're listening to attacks today, first of all, on that document that they caused. Secondly, we are listening to our policy attacks against the international community. How now, as MPs of the ruling majority, we do not respond that the policy of co-operation with the international community can only help us, and cannot help us. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: What about the Strpci? When it comes to the storks and the tankers, you know better about Seselj than I do. The second question, we cannot discuss this issue without saying what the democratic opposition is, what the Democratic Party is and what those parties in the opposition proposed in 1996, when it didn't work out for us. We proposed that privatisation be introduced as soon as possible in Kosovo and in all Serbia. For twelve billion dollars today, our economic system of Serbia would be richer. Foreign capital would enter various companies in Kosovo. I ask you a question - would it be bombing if more than 500 social firms had entered foreign capital from Greece, Germany, France? The Albanians would object then. They'd say they're selling ours. Our excuse would be if they thought Enver Hodge was still alive. We want a transformation, we want a privatisation. If we'd done that, we wouldn't have talked about this paper today. Sadly, many issues were solved by mobilization and war. And today, an MP came out and said, "We have mobilized, we have fought." Woe to that policy and to that government that boasts of mobilization and wars. Here's the best example of the current government and the current government. These ministers, who were with us today, are one part and now, thanks to them, we have recovered 1,200 square miles of Serbian territory, but with co-operation with the international community, with an agreement. We didn't go to war, we didn't go to new mobilization, we didn't go to new victims. We will solve this problem of Kosovo, but the way we imagine it and how we have now drawn it, not how you did it in conflict with the international community and in conflict with the whole world. We, when we adopt today's conclusions, must come from one basic fact -- who signed the Kumanski Agreement, Kostunica, Djindjic, Covic? The Kuman agreement is the capitulation of Serbian politics and the Serb army in the Balkans. Capitulation, whether you like that word or not, whether you like it or not, is the cause and this is the result of your ten-year concern for the Serbian national interest. We must come from that fact. Today we are in a far better position, today we already have a kind of partnership with the international community and with the military, so we're already returning territories without a grain of gunpowder. We've returned 1,200 kilometers of square surface thanks to these ministers, and those MPs who talk with humiliation about victims, anyone's, whether they were in Kravica, whether they were in Srebrenica, whether they were in this tanker, it's sinful and let them imagine with which right they can say it's a lie. I don't get into whether it's true or false, but we need to imagine everyone whose policy it was today that we have to mention such things for this assembly speaker. It's a tragedy that today, in the 21st century, when a civilized world doesn't know ways of destroying cities like Vukovar, it doesn't know how to sink people, civilians, as it did with this tanker, we still honor here that it's not true. Instead of being ashamed, to keep quiet, we talk and say it's not true. My conclusion would be that whoever reports talking from this pay phone should pay 30 dinars per minute, and that would help the people in the following way: those who report, and we will use the money to help Serbian life and help resolve the Serbian issue in Kosovo; those who do not answer will help by passing privatisation laws faster, other transformative laws that we consider to be introducing us to Europe. They'd do it faster, not three months here to talk about topics that don't make sense. However, even though it is the way it is, I am satisfied with this position. Only twice in those 100 days we talk about these difficult topics, of which the people are of no use at all. So far we've made you talk about economy, gross income, net income...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8118	Mr. Petkovic, you owe 300 dinars, here's 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8119	I accept in 10 minutes to pay that amount if it will help solve other issues, but I also ask the President of the Assembly to put it to the vote, so that others have that obligation, not here for three months, to hold the vacuum as if they were patriarchs, and all of them have done to get into this situation and to talk on this subject again tragically and disastrously again today. Don't defend the Serbs anymore, don't worry about them anymore, you've cared enough, and as you worry about seeing it and the people, the MPs see it. Shut up, wait at least a year, let the passions quiet down a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8120	Please don't let this discussion cause what we least want. Today's debate has run in the best order and I ask that this be an exception to the rules. Please really go the way we started this session and don't step out of the agenda. Replica, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8121	Don't be afraid of anything, Mr. President, I'll speak only in the language of fact and I won't mention anything beyond this agenda or beyond what the MP who caused my replica here has said. As for the abduction of Muslims in Strpci and their liquidation, I first publicly announced who did it, as soon as I found out, and I'm the only one who's made it public on the TV show in Studio B, in a television duel with Zoran Cicko. I said it was organized by the Union of Communists - the Movement for Yugoslavia. The direct organizer was Colonel Ljubisha Bear. That's what Dusan Mihajlovic knows, because his party was then in the Serbian government. General Perišić also knew because he was chief of staff at the time, long after Colonel Ljubisa Beara was on his payroll and as I heard he was recently retired. Let Dusan Mihajlović explain why the matter has not been investigated to the end, perhaps some of his now police generals, favorites. As for the alleged freezer, Dusan Mihajlovic doesn't even have a freezer, how does he know it's a freezer, maybe it was a submarine. Then he says it's 30 bodies, so 50, today it's 80 bodies, and tomorrow it's 100, 150, 200. Just to warn him, there's a certain limit to where corpses can get along in the freezer, so they don't go too far. They say 400 halves can stop and take care of it. What about the freezer in Kokin's boat? And there's a freezer in there, and now suddenly there's no freezer because there's no water in the lake and there's nothing showing. You see how crazy that is. A refrigerator with corpses to leave Kosovo via Prokuplje, on the highway to Pogorec, and Pozharevc to the Danube near Golubac, near Gradišče where she went out, all the way to Kladov. Guys, think about it with your own head. Even if someone wanted to hide some bodies, is that the craziest possible option? Where else are you going to look for ice-colds with corpses? Where's the trace, where's the material evidence? How can a police minister hold a press conference to talk about it, and there's not a single piece of material evidence. He's referring to some alleged sister-in-laws. There are 100,000 people in the world who are witnesses that there are flying saucers. They claim to have seen flying saucers. There are 100,000 people who swear that they saw ghosts and that the police in the world held a press conference and the minister said -- here, I have witnesses that they were seen flying saucers or that ghosts were seen. Where's the material evidence? How insecure it is now that the law on the delivery of Serbs to the UN tribunal is being drafted, to further attribute something to Milosevic. Milosevic hid corpses in the Danube near Kladov. Think about how crazy that is. If someone wanted to hide corpses somewhere, I guess there's a whole bunch of other ways to do it. Besides, if civilians are killed in the war, it's an army's duty to mark their graves and their basics to leave.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8122	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8123	I'll be done right away. Therefore, take care of what you say and take care of how you defile your own people. As for the kidnapping in the Strpts, here's the minister of police, let him investigate it until the end and see who he's hiding on this matter, and where you have no material evidence, let the minister of the police in advance, let him investigate it first, so when he has tangible evidence, let him go public. And this is how he gets out in the open, and one day 30, tomorrow 50, then 80 dead bodies, until he gets there. I'm afraid he can get into my house, and I've removed all the laurels, and he can also search my laurels for ice-colds with corpses. That madness has no limits once it appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8124	The People's MP Jovan Deretic has the word, and after him, the MP Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8125	Dear Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, Mr. Ministers, Kosovo and Metohija are at the heart of Serbian ethics. The crucial historical events affected every nation in the formation of its national ethics. With us Serbs, it was the Kosovo Battle, which struck the seal on our spiritual and ethnic national beings, on our historical memory. It is not only the merit of Kosovo's color, as one historic event, but also the geographical concept of Kosovo and its neighbouring Metohija. The two provinces together have special significance in Serbian history, as a central part of the Serbian country and a cradle of Serbian statehood. The first Serb tribes and countries in history mention Dardan and Dardanija, who carried fame not only of Serbian weapons, but also of Serbian cultures throughout the ancient world, as the cradle of the most perfect war structure and at the same time musical instruments and instrumental music. Dardanija represents in the coat of arms of Nemnjević armed lion, and geographically it is the territory of the current Cosmet with the areas of Nis and Skopje. In Dardania are the largest Serbian religious centres, like Nis... from pre - Christian times and from Christian times. Serbia's archdiocese was founded in Peca back in 1548, which later became a Serbian patriarchy. The towns of Prizren, Pristina and Skopje were Serbian royal and imperial capitals. One part of Dardania, Kosovo and Metohija are today under the occupation of international forces that seek to make the central Serbian country a new Arab state, another such state in Serbian historical territory, and the first was the Republic of Albania. It was created in 1913 for reasons to make it impossible for Serbia to exit to the sea. Where today Serbs from the territory of the Albanian state, when it was created, there were plenty, and in Tirana's capital itself, there were more than Arbanas. Where Serbs in the town of Skadra, who were then taken by force from Serbs, the city was the most time capital of Serbia, more than 1,000 years. Veligrad under Tomor, today Berana, was the capital of Balsic and Crnovic, and to the Veligrad area, the Arbanas spread only during the Turks' time. Where are the Serbs today, Veligrada? The displaced, Polished and destroyed, and all of this is waiting for the Serbs of Kosovo and Metohija in a projected new Arab state, and we can calmly tell those Western designers - it is a deja vu (deja vi - already seen). Who is this people, in whose name the Western forces want to rip Serbia's heart out. Do we Serbs have any historical sins against this people? No, gentlemen, we really don't. On the contrary, we welcomed the people into our country in 1043, when they were on Serbian soil as shipowners and foreign servants. We call this people the Arbanas, called Raban, beneath the mountain of Jablanica, where we settled them. They call themselves Scipetari, which means the hills in their language, and foreigners call them Albanians, in the land of Albania's Caucasus from which they came. In Serbia, they were professional cattlemen and as such Serbian laws define them and protect their rights, similar to the Germans (Sasi) in the interest of miners. We Serbs have done nothing to this people, but we have widely received them and protected that people. If we had treated them as they have treated us in the last three centuries, there would have been no sign of them on the Balkan Peninsula. The Arbanas are a people of high birth, prone to terror, robbery and kidnapping, and as such they were destined to be used as weapons against us by all our enemies. It is a people who easily change their faith according to the rule of which they contrive, that and faith. In the 17th century, as the new muhammedans, the new Turks were massingly coming down from the mountain cantons into a rich Metohija, killing Serbs and kidnapping houses and properties. They destroyed churches and monasteries, took possession of land. More than half of Metohija’s territory belonged to churches and monasteries, which is why it is called Metohija. The Turks tolerated the kidnapping, and then encouraged it, especially after the Karadjord's uprising. Invite the unprotected Serbs of Kosovo and Metohija, heard to the sky until 1912. In World War II, genocide over Serbs was committed. And now, under the protection of Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany, did criminals bear the name - The Hoods or members of the SS Skender-beg division - for Serbs there is no difference, they all went towards the same goal - to destroy Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and create a great Albania. The idea is still present today with Arbanas, and they are also encouraged by courageous forces who are hostile to the Serbian people. They received their country of Albania in Serbian historical territory without firing a bullet or fighting for it. As they proved consistent in the persecution and destruction of Serbs, only remember the 1981 events, remember Djordz Martinovic, and the same force wants them to be rewarded today by creating a second Cypriot state in the heart of Serbia. To suppress all Serbian traces in the kidnapped country of Kosovo and Metohija, the Arbanas have destroyed some 1,500 Serb churches and monasteries from the 17th century to the present day. Today, they say the High Decani monastery is not a Serbian, but an Arab monastery. They take not only our land, but our national history, they take our soul. Gentlemen, we are not seeking revenge, we are not seeking the persecution of Arbanas from Serbia, on the contrary, we are asking that they too may live peacefully and safely. Gentlemen, we have no right to give up Kosovo and Metohija before generations to come, before history. We are looking for our rights and we must say this clearly in front of the whole world, which is that Kosovo and Metohija are inseparable and inalienable territory of the Serbian state. (The messenger, below, read the declaration in eight points, proposed on behalf of the first National Assembly by MP Ljubomir Mirkovic - sees the register. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8126	The break is until 3:30. We have a lot of reports, please be in the O.R. on time. [[Pause.]] [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work, considering the proposal for a conclusion on the declaration of the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija. The word has the People's MP Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8128	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I have no intention of talking about what was back ten years ago, nor do I want to talk about the constitutional framework that Mr. Hekerup brought. I think those things are clear. In the whole story, I don't think we're gonna go far. I think it's more important now what we need to do and what we need to do to get out of this existing situation that we've found ourselves in. I'm sure you know that Hackerup's plan is not good. It seems to me that even certain amendments, which we have given, have been adopted and accepted, would not be enough for the Serbs below to guarantee their stay and safety. The whole plan comes down to a desire for ethnic Kosovo, one hug between Serbs and Shipara living downstairs, in principle that large fish swallow smaller fish. It seems to me that this new constitution and these legal frameworks, surely, if they were even much better, would not guarantee Serbs that they could stay down. However, it is far more important for us now to see the situation that we have down there and what further needs to be done down there. We, first of all, must come from the fact that UNMIK, NATO, is a pact, that they all flew into one Kosovo mud. They are now trying in their own way to get out of all of this, trying, giving legal frameworks, in fact down there, to establish one government, normally, at the request of most, the power of the Shiptara, and within that we are left to fit into all of that. UNMIK and KFOR Serbs can't return to Kosovo, not because they won't, not because they don't want to, but because they're powerless to do something like that. UNMIK and KFOR can't stop violence down there, not because they won't, maybe they will, but because they can't. They can't even provide people with freedom of movement, they can't. Because in order to do all of this, they have to come into conflict with the Shiptars and from that conflict, surely they will happen and sacrifice, which they do not want anyway. That's the biggest problem, and that's the main problem. They've all, for their part, now realized that we're right, that we're the victims. But we don't have anything out of it. We've experienced an exodus, we've paid by persecuting so many worlds, so many peoples. From this distance, I can even believe that this persecution has been planned in some way, because certainly, the fewer Serbs down in Kosovo, the easier it is to create one parade. The fewer Serbs, there are fewer who will complain. For those reasons, we need to see what we need to do downstairs. UNMIK first of all gives you as much power and as much rights as you take and take. It's the wrong theory, that only by working with the international community can we get everything down there. The second is the story from Presevo, and the second is the story in Kosovo down there. As far as UNMIK is concerned, we can get as much as we are politically strong, strong and organized. If that's not what we're talking about, it's not gonna happen. They are able, if you insist and seek your rights, not to give you an escort the next day to reach your queen. Approximately, they use every means they can in some way form a para-state. We must strengthen and stabilize the Serb community below. They have a desire to demonstrate the Serbian state in the entire area. They did it with the military and police, and now they're trying to destroy other parts of Serbia's state system, which is still down there. It's mostly health and education. They're trying in every possible way to make so-called. UNMIK's school system. He doesn't exist. There's only a Ship's school system. They are trying to create Kosovo civil society, which is, in fact, Albanian civil society. There's nothing Serbian about it. For these reasons, first of all, as a state, as a government here, we must try to strengthen those parts of the state system that remain below. It must be strong down there and the more Serbs become more attached to their queen, to health care, to education, to the media and to everything else, they have a better chance of survival. But first of all, we must send a clear and loud message down from the government -- Serbs cannot receive money from both UNMIK and our government. If they receive money from UNMIK, they cannot be part of the Ministry of Education or Serbia's health. Our people appreciate it. The unclear stance of any ministry is merely in fact ousting the state of Serbia from these areas. Therefore, all ministries must make it clear and loud that these people and bodies are parts of this country and these queens. On the other hand, we have a chance to see a new so-called so-called Kosovo being built. Security system, we have KPS police, that's what. Kosovo police force. These are forces that were, above all, created, created, anti-Serbian, and approximately, some of their parts participated in the war in Presevo and Bujanovac. Serbs must not participate in these Kosovo police forces, especially those who must not be encouraged from high places and from members of the Serbian government. We have an example, say on TV "Peace", that is, above all, UNMIK's television, where Serbia's police minister, in fact, is talking about the situation in Kosovo, and at the same time down in the left corner, it says that all Serbs report to another police force, in another armed formation. Those two things can't go together. If we want our army and the police back down there, there's no room for two armies and two police. If it's still done by the police minister, I don't think it can help the survival of Serbs down in Kosovo. Also, we must first and foremost as a government in those municipalities where the presidents of the municipalities have long left Kosovo and Metohija's premises, and they want Serbia, clearly and loudly introduce temporary measures and in those parts and those settlements where the Serbs are left, to feel that there is a Serb. For example, for example, if people have left and if the president of Obilić municipality has left Obilić and lives in Serbia somewhere, along with the state municipal structure, we have to make in the first neighbouring settlement that there is this municipality. However, reduced to three or four settlements, but it must feel that Serbia is there, there must be a state-owned infrastructure of our country. I think these are key things that can help Serbs stay down in Kosovo. The same is true in other parts, and when it comes to culture, when it comes to work, when it comes to social policy. We have to be there all the time. We have made more than 35 days of blockades, protests, rebelled for known reasons to prevent the separation of our queen from the state of Serbia. That's why our government, any federal or republican government, can't suddenly make deals with UNMIK that there's this border line, to charge taxes on the border. I think it's an illusion one, that there's a whole rebellion of a nation gone to waste. That way we can't work. I don't think that's going to work for all of us. When it comes to Kosovo, we need to know what our current policy concept is below, whether we will support a concept implemented by Serbian representatives, not from Gracanica, but from the Gracanic Group, headed by Mrs Rada Trajkovic. Are we going to support that concept or are we going to support someone else?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8129	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8130	I think the state itself must say clearly and loudly what the concept is good. If, for example, our northern part of Kosovo is bad, then we will withdraw and let that concept work and be present. This is how it turns out, Serbs fight, Serbs bite, Serbs are divided. The Serbs are not divided at all. I have no reason to personally hate anyone, for example, but we must have a common platform around which we will gather and which this congregation must first of all make. And one more thing, I won't be long, it seems to me that the question of cantonization is one of the main issues down there, for which we have to fight, to carry it out. I think it is also a democratic issue in some way, and for known reasons, as much as we give rights and autonomy to Albanians compared to Serbia, we are so obliged to give it to the Serbs as well. And if there is no centralised Serbia, Kosovo cannot be centralised either.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8131	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8132	Without a clear platform, without a clear goal, it seems to me like this is how we're going to disappear from those spaces. That is why stabilising Serbs down there, with one strong and fierce help from the Serbian state, guarantees us a downside survival, and especially because we Serbs, who are down there, have a desire, we intend to fight politically, so that this part does not go into other people's hands. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8133	The word has been given by MP Stanko Kovacevic, followed by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8134	The respected presidency, respected fellow Members of Parliament and fellow MPs, a problem that we are discussing for the second time in the last month is not dating for the last 10 years, not even in the last 50 years, but has been inaccessible for a much longer period of history for the Serbian people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, perhaps more than two centuries. If we remember the Serbs' migration under Charnojevic, so we remember the Balkan wars, so we remember World War I, the Second, everything that happened during the communist rule until the last decade of the 20th century, what was happening during the previous government. Don't be angry, but I would like to remind you of something that I said in this building as an DS MP in 1993 about this problem in an informal conversation, as a member of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia. At that time, in April 1993, and not knowing enough ethnic schedules or cultural problems in Kosovo, I expressed this opinion. What Serbs and Serbia understand before they realize that Shiptars should be dumped as a cancer wound from Serbs and Serbia, and that will be better for Serbs and Serbia, and if we do not do so in time for 10 to 15 years from 1993, we will be in a position to look for us all the way to Nis and Kings. Unfortunately, some of the movements were going that way. If we are talking about the temporary constitutional framework declared by UNMIK administrator, Mr Hekerup, then indeed everything that has been said in the evaluations and conclusions of the Federal and Republic Government has no reason not to be supported by this assembly. Some of this we also spoke at the previous debate and gave in those conclusions, as a possibility for the UN's provisional administration to possibly install views and views of the Serbian Parliament into the envisaged interim constitutional framework. However, the obvious thing is that Hekerup was influenced by the Shipar Lobby and the foreign lobby, which also supports those who are in charge of temporary management of affairs both Serbs and Albanians, and by the state of Serbia and the state of Yugoslavia in Kosovo, and that they had a much greater impact on the definitive text of the provisional constitutional framework. That is why we should indeed accept and support the views of both governments and other governments, and especially what Prime Minister Djindjic said this morning, when he said, gentlemen, when we are talking about this topic and when we propose measures and conclusions, we should make sure that we talk about what is objectively possible, that we do not demand impossible, because this will only make it difficult to further agree and make it difficult to create the right position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and within Serbia and in the framework of Yugoslavia. So I would like to suggest that you give the evaluations and conclusions that we have here today for consideration and adoption, complete with two conclusions. One of them would, in my opinion, and something about this is also said in the proposal for a conclusion, that the Serbian Parliament is asking Mr Hekerup to amend the provisional constitutional framework, by obligingly removing constitutional and returning to work material, which had the title of the temporary legal framework for that and that. Secondly, to require the UNMIK administration to obligately remove all elements that give elements of the statehood of the provisional authorities of Kosovo and Metohija. And what is very important to me, I now propose, Mr. President, that the Serbian Parliament adopt a request to the Serbian government that in the future none of the Serb prisons can be released without having previously provided adequate reciprocity to Serbian prisoners in the Shyptar and UNMIK prisons and to kidnapped and captured Serbs. If we have shown a sufficient degree of will towards the international community and released a large number of Cypriot prisoners who may have been convicted of more serious crimes than Serbs who are being convicted in the Shyptar and UNMIK prisons, then we have the right to demand the same relationship between UNMIK and KFOR, both the international community and Shipara against Serbs in their prisons, as they demand with Albanians in Serbian prisons. It is clear that in our views of the sea, which is already proposed in the conclusions, it insists exclusively that in the interim legal framework, it must be stressed that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia and Yugoslavia and that they are an integral part of Serbia-Yugoslavia's legal and economic system. As it stands in the provisional act, it is clear that many forces want Kosovo and Metohija removed from Serbia, and that only the variant of their temporary existence within Yugoslavia is discussed, until circumstances are created for the eventual achievement of their ultimate goal. Finally, there is a lot of attention in our, and in the international public, as well as in the Albanian public, in KFOR and UNMIK, prompted Mr Covic's idea of the need to discuss temporary solutions to increase the security of Serbian living in Kosovo and Metohija, by ensuring the existence of two entities, Serbian and Albanian, taking care of two elements he spoke of: historical and ethnic. The ethnic principle, which Albanians have, historically and ethnically, have Serbs. A lot of doubt about it has been said, there has been a lot of opposition here, and I think that this should be taken seriously and that this could be the first degree of increased security and increased activity of Serbian living in Kosovo and Metohija, and that perhaps we could say something about it in our conclusions as well. Because it's enough for the Shiparis to resist the proposal in a warm way, so that it can be realized that we are right when we demand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8135	The word has a folk MP Dragan Markovic, followed by Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs in the assembly for this session say that on the initiative of the 106 MPs of the DOS, the president of the assembly has scheduled this session. It is that the form is being respected, and we know that the initiative for this session has been drawn by the Serbian Unity Party and that we have left the session, we did not want to attend last session and to discuss some points of the agenda that are irrelevant to the citizens of Serbia. We have heard a large number of MPs today, but in addition to what the representatives of the Serbian Unity Party said, I would support Mr. Jaksic's speech living in Mitrovica and who only knows how Serbs live in Mitrovica and what problems they have down there. He said that if Hans Hekerup accepted all the amendments proposed by the government, that the constitutional framework would not again be good for the Serbs and the Serb people. I'm afraid it's not a contract and a deal, that later on Hans Hekerup accepts these amendments proposed by the Serbian government and declares itself, as they did before, that it's a great success of today's government and that it's a victory, like the old government did when it declared victory over NATO's pact, that we preserved sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, and we of the Serbian Unity Party were talking back then, and today we say that we have endured without defeating the NATO Pact. If the whole world supports us, ladies and gentlemen, how come none of them at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia give any ultimatum to Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. This was given to Serbs back five or six years, especially in 1998 and 1999. We believe that our diplomacy is weakly doing its job and that they have not done what the Serbian people expect them to do in Kosovo and Metohija. Some Serbs have put themselves into some bodies and allegedly represent the Serbian people and the Serbian government. We all know (I'm excluding Mr. Trajkovic, I don't mean him when I say so) that they've entered some bodies. However, they gave legitimacy to decisions made recently, all of which were harmful to the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. The new government is no better than the old government. They're just saying, and the old government did it, that we have more than 350,000 Serbs in the country and that they're very hard to live today. We all know that. But not only do we know that, but they also take away the rights they had in Serbia, that those over 18 to 65 years of age receive benefits from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The new government took it away from them. No one mentions, or mentions, but only at the request of the 1,300 missing Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. No one wanted to talk to them and they sought and saw rescue in the president of the Serbian Unity Party, Professor Borislav Pelevic and a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia. We release terrorists from Serbian prisons, 12 terrorists released this government from several Serbian prisons 10 days ago. He has already made a mistake several times, while neither Serb leaves Albanian prisons and 1,300 families are unable to sleep, and every time the gate breaks, he thinks they're their most born. They want to clear up and know if the members of their families are alive and whether they have a chance to get back to them. The new government made a big mistake, six times smaller funds were allocated to Kosovo and Metohija, unlike the southern Serbia. We know that Kosovo and Metohija have a large number of collapsed houses, and we are asking for Serbs to return. We didn't first create certain conditions for them. Their houses have been torn down, 120,000 Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija, half of them do not live in their houses. They are tenants, either in Kosovo Mitrovica or elsewhere where ethnically clean Serbian settlement is. The Serbian Unity party couldn't see that the international community and America had helped us. I'll tell you a Serbian disgrace, which happened seven to eight days ago in Turkey. The American ambassador came, took him to the municipality, but they didn't take him to see the collapsed houses of citizens in gurri, knocked down a bridge on the territory of the municipality of Ćupri, to see a torn-down barracks, to see the destroyed three schools in Ćupria. They took him to the municipality, and you know what they were doing, they hung on the wall of the American flag because he only gave $30,000 to the Cupri, and the damage costs $20 million. They took him to the monastery for lunch. The Igumania of the monastery, when she heard what he had given and who he was, that his country had pressed a button to bomb Yugoslavia, did not want to be his host. (The messenger, below, read the declaration in eight points, proposed on behalf of the first National Assembly by MP Ljubomir Mirkovic - sees the register. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8137	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8138	I would first like to thank the Prime Minister for the information and what the Government is doing on the plan to maintain the previous government's trends in providing personal income to people who worked in state authorities, in the economy and in the area of education and health, because indeed these people carried or represented the state in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija in time and did what they could do in the interest of enforcing the law of our country. It's not their fault that this pain happened to us from Kosovo and Metohija, and that's why I think it's good to continue with this provision of assistance and possible engagement wherever people can engage in the interests of our country. As far as this constitutional framework is concerned, this document brought by Hans Hekerup is my opinion, I read it several times, that it represents a pillar, based on the state of Kosovo, because it really contains all the attributes of the state and nowhere in the document mentions Serbia or Yugoslavia, or "S" from Serbia, or "J" from Yugoslavia. Indeed, according to all the contents of this document, an absolute Resolution 1244 of the Security Council is being violated, although in many places the Security Council Resolution is also underlining. What exactly is this about? First, the Security Council resolution has been violated by the peace forces since the beginning of the breach and the trampled. Because peace forces, which were meant to preserve and ensure peace and security for all people, for all citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, are therefore for Serbs, Montenegrins and other non-Albanian communities, they did not. On the contrary, they were silent observers of numerous terrible crimes, above all Serbs and Montenegrins, of the Roma, Muslims, but also of a number of members of the Cypriot national community who had previously worked in the authorities of our country and who considered the state as their country. The goal was to banish as many Serbs as possible from Kosovo and Metohija, to keep the number to a minimum. Where Serbs concentrated, where they had opportunities and strength, they survived. The Americans and the English were particularly distracted by the northern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica. That's why last year they tried, under the cover of helping French KFOR members to enter and break the unity of Serbs in the northern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica. It turned out, where the Serb people were unique, where they were determined to oppose unfair moves, that it was effective. Indeed, the most valuable thing, the most valuable fact regarding the survival of our people in Kosovo and Metohija is the absolute unity of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, because everyone who lives there can survive if they are unique and protect each other and help each other. Furthermore, the resolution was violated by the fact that nothing by the international forces, I mean KFOR and UNMIK, has been done to ensure the conditions for the return of the exiled Serbs and Montenegrins to Kosovo and Metohija. Also predecessor Hans Hekerup, Kouchner, has done his best to banish the state of Serbia, or its institutions from Kosovo and Metohija, and Hans Hekerup brings a pillar of Kosovo's statehood. The fact is also being made in a commentary, an analysis by the Federal Ministry, which is given in this material. There were objections here for an earlier period, and I'll look back on that later. But what this act represents, this so-called. The constitutional framework and the extent to which it provides guarantees to Serbs, namely how much it protects them from majorisation, which was cancer early in the period, especially now. Not a bit protects the Serbs or other national communities from the majorisation of the Shipar, and that remained the main problem. If earlier, when the Cypriots under the Constitution in 1974 had all the attributes of statehood, the assembly, the presidency headed by the president, the constitutional court, had the Supreme Court, the police, district and municipal courts, had politics, had a lot of leadership seats in the economy, even the president of the SFRY, had many ministers in both the Serbian government and the then Republic Executive Council and the Federal Executive Council, all of them were few, and in 1981 they organised mass separatist demonstrations. Because of the attributes of statehood, which the provinces had at the time, larger than the Republic of Serbia, because although they were allegedly led to the provinces in Serbia, the forces of the Republic of Serbia could not come to Kosovo and Metohija to intervene in the repression of these separatist demonstrations without the consent of the Kosovo Parliament or the Kosovo Executive Council. Therefore, during that period, the province had a higher degree of statehood than the Republic, whose members they were. The Serbian assembly could not pass one law without the consent of the province's assembly, and the province's congregations could pass any law without the consent of the Republic of Serbia. All this says about how many of these rights had autonomy and attributes of statehood, and yet the Shiparians were not satisfied and set off for separatist demonstrations. That is why it was necessary to demonstrate the statehood of the provinces and create a single Serbia and that is what has been done. What happened later, for the sake of truth, I have to go back to that period, because we who lived downstairs in Kosovo and Metohija survived this discrimination, because it was hard when the Shiptari had power and everything in their hands, it was hard to mention that you were a Serb, it was hard to carry a spoon. From that time on, it was necessary to withdraw some lessons and change the constitution, to create a single Serbia. By order of the party, the Cypriots began mass boycotting everything that is Serbian, Serbia's state, its laws, to leave mass jobs both from state authorities and from business collectives, from everything. A number remained, but a large number were leaving jobs and therefore Serbia was accused of allegedly persecuting Shipara, which was not true. Also, the Cypriots, under Ibrahim Rugova's leadership, made one move of national reconciliation, so they forgave all blood revenge and homogenized around one goal -- the organisation against Serbia. They went through the world's metropolis, accused Serbia of allegedly jeopardizing their basic right to life, of being threatened by minority rights, which was not true, because they themselves, with a certain goal, with certain procedures, dictated by them, acted and met with understanding in New York, Paris, London and other world metropolis. What I especially want to point out is that at that time, they started forming armed formations, especially in 1998, and kidnapping, cutting roads, killing soldiers and cops, and our country had to deal with terrorist groups, like they do everywhere in the world. If we were right, because we were defending the state from terrorists like everyone else in the world, it shows the situation today in Macedonia. Our only accident was that we didn't have that support in dealing with the Shiptar terrorists from the international community. If this constitutional framework remains in force as it is given, I'm afraid we won't have any Serb protection down in Kosovo and Metohija and that Serbs will leave mass, and those who remain, and those who dream of returning will have no motive to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8139	The word has a People's MP, Jovan Todorovic, and the next one reported for discussion is the National MP of Hope Kolundžija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8140	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Kosovo and Metohija is an angry wound to the Serb people, the Serbian state, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for a long period of time behind us. Some have been talking about centuries, some have been talking about decades, but we have a permanent, sometimes intense, sometimes less intensely present problem for Serbs, above all in Kosovo and Metohija. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering three documents, which will, in all likelihood, enter into the history of this Parliament and thereby strengthen the obligation and responsibility of all the MPs in the Assembly to speak with due attention, with a high sense of responsibility, so, if necessary, emotionally, fairly, fairly, not at the expense of neither the Serb people, nor of any national community in Kosovo. Three documents that I would like to sort out in this order - a document by the Federal Government, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so the information on the constitutional and legal framework proposed, or adopted or declared by Mr Hans Hekerup on 15 May, the text of that constitutional and legal framework and the final proposal for a conclusion that the Government delivered to this Parliament. Next in line, I'd like to say a few sentences about each of these documents. First of all, when it comes to information, we saw there that the whole world, what we actually call the international community, so the United States, NATO Pact, the European Union, and Russia, accepted the document. On the other hand, we have one very serious, argumentative opposition from the Serb people and the Serb community in Kosovo, and even opposition from Albanians. However, those who accept it have a greater weight and have a great right, a right stronger to impose on both Serbs and this country and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia precisely such a document, which is said in advance that no one will accept it from those who need to live under the conditions of the document. Many of these days talk about the constitutional document actually relying on the previous constitutional regulation of the SFRY and Kosovo and actually giving rights to people who will live under that document in Kosovo that were guaranteed by the 1974 Constitution. That, ladies and gentlemen, for me is the highlight of the cynicism of the international community and those who explain to those very reasons the need to adopt such a document. Is it possible that only this document is the one that corresponds, that only that constitutional solution from 1974 is the one that corresponds, and that it was the international community that did by its own actions, by doing or by not making it fall apart from the state that rested on the constitutional basis of 1974. On the other hand, we also learn from the information that any serious opposition to the proposed text by Mr Hans Hekerup would cause serious difficulties for the SRJ and for the Serb people in Kosovo. What does that mean? Does this mean that we would have to accept just any document that comes to us from some Mr. Hans, and that we must be overly resilient, overly indifferent, if you want and uninterested in order to empower the international community and possibly benefit from it? For me, it's a big question both legal and economic, and moral, if you will. Is there finally a right for this congregation to think that way? I can understand the government's needs, the economy is at a dead end, hard to live with, they're blackmailing us, they're threatening us, etc., but does that just mean that we have to give up some interests that perhaps, with some enhanced activity, we could achieve for the Serb community for Kosovo and Metohija. When it comes to the provision, i.e. the information we learn from the text of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that a possible request for maintenance and emergency session of the UN Security Council will also come across resistance, I must put a big question mark there. Why, as the Republic Assembly, as Parliament, as the Federal and Republic Government, so all those responsible for the situation in this country, we would not ask the Security Council to, exactly in accordance with Resolution 1244, urgently consider the constitutional -- legal framework that Mr Hekerup has given as a solution to future life -- however, he says temporarily for three years -- of all national communities in Kosovo and Metohija. I see no serious reason not to put this issue on the Security Council, to seek, and if they do not, it will be a disgrace to the international community, but this government and this parliament will thus save the honor of both the Serbian people and all citizens living in this country. When it comes to the constitutional and legal framework as an object, i.e. as a document that cannot be changed, at least that is how it turns out, we, in the proposal for our conclusions, or in the proposal submitted by the Government, say among other things in point 2 and the following: "We will propose to Mr Hekerup to consider the possibility of amending the document". Why would we suggest that? Why don't we as the Republic Parliament, as MPs, as federal, as the Republic Government, ask Mr Hackerup to amend the document. Why wouldn't they want to do that? I don't think this parliament can draw conclusions or parts of conclusions that will be optional, non-binding for either government or government. For example, point 6 is said there that Serbs from Kosovo should seek or demand that the exiled Serbs from Kosovo return to Kosovo before the elections, as is known to be scheduled for November 17th. That is what I would say, the Republic Assembly, so this parliament, the Republic and the federal government should demand from the international community, from Mr Hekerup to create and implement a programme for the return of Serbs, primarily Serbs to Kosovo, by November 17th. So it's not just a question of desire, it seems like a legal question, but also a fundamental question. Please, ladies and gentlemen, if there will be elections in Kosovo on November 17th, no matter what we say here today, if we can accept it as reality, then it really doesn't matter how many Serbs go to those elections in Kosovo. Constitutional solutions, Hekerupova, therefore, on the election of MPs, the assembly numbers 120 MPs, and 10 Serb MPs go by the key, but 100 MPs are elected in the proportional elections, a proportional number of votes that political parties or party representatives receive in those elections. The issue of election mathematics is quite open and it does not matter whether 100,000 Serbs, 200,000 or 300,000 Serbs appear in Kosovo's elections. This significantly changes the percentage of MPs' participation in the future province's Kosovo-metohic parliament, and it is important for the future possible vote in this parliament, although it is clear that the Albanian community as a majority will have the most MPs. So it doesn't matter if we have 15% or 20% of the total structure, because sometimes it can happen that it's the very number that can prevent any decisions based on majorisation. As I see my time running out, I'd like to keep your attention only for two examples. Recently, in a business conversation, I experienced that a gentleman, therefore a true gentleman, one German, owned by a company in Bremen who was a large buyer of Viskoza products, after a business conversation had been completed, had risen and apologized to all of us Serbs and Yugoslavs for what Germany and its people had done in the past 10 years to the detriment of Serbs. Another example I'd like to give you, to illustrate... He is also tied to a German, my great friend Horst Folk, who lives in Loznica, defined himself as living in Loznica because he loves the Serbian people and this country and who has assured me all 10 years ago that the international community has no fair intentions towards this country. According to the proposal, or constitutional justice framework declared by Mr. Hans Hekerup, my friend Folk is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8141	The word has a folk letter, Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, and the next reported for discussion is Mr. Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8142	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike some MPs here, I didn't realize that this is a literary section, nor a country theater where the subject is patriotism, so we all act and we all direct ourselves, as we think patriotism should look, nor a pirate's evening dedicated to Kosovo. I realized that we here today must be very responsible, very clear to send a message to those to whom it applies and to whom the fate of Kosovo and Metohija depends. But that we must send that message in that ban that the predecessors left us. That's why, I'd like to remind myself of what frames we can even talk about, because I see that some people either don't know or will not say it on purpose. Security Council Resolution 1244, Annex 2, point 4. - an international security presence, with the essential participation of NATO, must be deployed under a single command and control and authorized to establish a security environment etc. Point 6. - after withdrawing an agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian personnel, they will be allowed to return and perform the following functions: a link with the international civilian mission and international security presence, marking, clearing minefields, maintaining access to Serbian cultural heritage sites, maintaining presence at the main border crossings. The military-technical agreement, known as the Kumanski Agreement, says in the first place -- the sides of this agreement also confirm the document that President Ahtisaari submitted to President Milosevic, which was approved by the Serbian Parliament and the federal government on June 3rd 1999, which includes the deployment in Kosovo of an effective international, civilian, security presence. Point 2. - the government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, understand and agree that international security forces are deployed after the Security Council resolution is adopted. Point 4. - in order to establish a permanent end of hostilities, under no circumstances will the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia enter again, nor will it remain in the territory of Kosovo or in the area of land security, or the area of air security described in point 3. In point 3. - SRJ forces include: military and maritime forces, armed civilian groups, associated militia groups, air force, national guard, border police, military reserve, military police, intelligence services, federal and republican interior ministry, local and special police and police units to combat riots, anti-terrorism units and all other groups or individuals. Under point d, the air security zone is defined as a 25km zone within Serbia's territory, in which they do not have the right to be present all of these forces I spoke of and the land security zone - fivekm. And you now tell me where state sovereignty is, if you don't have any of these state institutions in that territory. So point h) of the international security force will provide adequate border control in Kosovo with Albania and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Appendix b) in line with the general obligations of the Military Technical Agreement, the state authorities of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia understand and agree with the deployment and operations of international security forces without obstacles. Point 2. - the commander of the international security force will have powers without interference or asking permission to do everything he considers appropriate, including the use of force. International security forces, nor any member of their staff, will be responsible for any damage done to state or private property. So it's a gentlemen framework that we can talk about now. Accordingly, we are left to consider what we can now, from such a narrow space, also as the National Assembly, as the most legislative body, tell the international community, to show that we accept all the legal frameworks that have been imposed upon us and inherited, but to seek, on the other hand, that they also respect what they have brought. So, we have a chance to go back to Security Council Resolution and remind them, and that, in my view, should be the first sentence of our conclusion, to remind them that they have confirmed their attachment to, therefore, all members, the territorial integrity of the SRJ. So let's get them back to what they said themselves and ask that everything that represents the legal framework contains what they have declared. Then let's go back to Annex I to the Security Council Resolution and remind them that they've predicted that the parties involved will agree and that we are therefore seeking our right, that as a party we have the right to create an agreement that would create this framework. Also, to remind them of point 8, in which the resolution says that the political process in order to establish an agreement on a temporary political framework, which will ensure essential self-government in Kosovo, will take full account of Rambuje's agreement and the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity. Negotiations between the parties towards reaching a solution should not interfere. So, just to remind them of that, the Security Council Resolution and for them should be a framework, if necessary, and for us, we cannot go behind it, and the conclusions that this assembly should adopt only to complete with what Security Council Resolution gives us as an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8143	The word is Branislav Ivkovic, a representative of the Parliamentary Group (second call).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8144	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm getting suggestions that I'm only talking about the document. Of course, in the Assembly, I'm going to talk about the document, and I'm going to leave the theater to those who love to act and make a play out of nothing and pretend that from their return to legal territory, which was run by the MUP, the establishment of the sovereignty of our country is above that territory. It is interesting, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, to remind you -- the land's security zone, 5km wide along the administrative border of Kosovo and Metohija, with the rest of Serbia, meant the next purpose -- in the land's security zone, no one was allowed to set foot in their feet by KFOR. That ground security zone, of course, was unable to enter the Yugoslavian Army either. The 5km was a zone for the separation of KFOR and the Yugoslav Army, which was the zone in which the Serbian government's MUP was only legitimately, with appropriate weapons and presence, and was the sovereign territory of the Republic of Serbia. Another story is that now that the entire mascarada, from November to yesterday, is finished, we see tons and tons of weapons that have passed over KFOR, primarily the American group. We're left here, if they're honest citizens of this country, to ask -- how could that weapon ever come into the Land Area of Security, if KFOR was tasked with no one entering the Land Area of Security armed? I don't suppose we from the Yugoslavian Army gave weapons to those you beat to be extremists, and we honestly call them terrorists, because these terrorists killed the Yugoslav Army and the members of the MUP, and all those who bothered them on that ground, and they know why they did it. They made us look forward to something, to getting what we had, so we wouldn't see this mess and the shame in Hackerup's document. I answered the second time, the truth is, to see what was skipped, to read. It has been skipped to read Article 9, and if anything this assembly has to do, it is that, uniquely, we all define that level of national interest within which each party has to give up mutual polemics and stand behind these national interests. And we here in this assembly are really in favour of this, that this minimum of national interests is defined, and it is right in Article 9, which is skipped, and Article 9 says: "It decides that the responsibilities of the international security presence, which will be deployed in Kosovo, will be the following: deterring further hostilities, maintenance, and, if necessary, imposing ceasefire, demilitarisation of the KLA (as demilitarisation has been carried out, seen in wagons and trucks of weapons, which are now being driven away, after the presence of the multiethnic police, we have just not learned the composition of the multiethnic police in the Land Area of Security, percentage, in national terms) and other armed groups of Kosovo Albanians, as required under Article 15." And most importantly, "the establishment of a safe environment in which refugees and displaced persons can safely return to their homes." Is it a shame to ask, why is it forgotten that it's what actors do here because they want it here, is it an act? Is this an act to demand that the legal document adopted by the UN Security Council be completed, and the international civilian presence can work, to establish temporary administration and delivery of humanitarian aid. No one is against the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1244, but the minimum of national interests, which every political party in this House must, and all extraparliamentary parties to support, is exactly what the notor fact -- we have a clean, legal, legal document, brought by the Security Council, call it whatever you want. Some say capitulation. We say - the victory of this people, because this nation has managed to force 19 of the world's most powerful countries to return to the Security Council and vote the resolution, my dear gentlemen, which guarantees the sovereignty and integrity of the SRJ. That's a fact. Is this a lie or is it true? It's true. Does it say here - the integrity and sovereignty of Yugoslavia? It says - the integrity and sovereignty of Yugoslavia. Mr. Batic may explain that he doesn't write, but he does. The documents of Ahtisaari and Chernomirdin, and all that followed after Resolution 1244, as a fundamental basis has the integrity and sovereignty of Yugoslavia. No one in this assembly is going to argue with the international community, especially since the old American administration, which has involved everything, has gone away. We want to talk to them, and it's good, and we need to help the legal authorities of this country, at the federal level, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, talk to the international community. But we have the right to both our government and the federal authorities, to ask, not just for the miserable descriptions, as the Ministry of Finance has given, but to tell them -- don't just write about Article 10, but write about Article 9. So, no one is going to argue, but right now, we remind ourselves, we have an argument, we have Resolution 1244, and Resolution 1244 says in Article 9, that it is the international community that has direct responsibility for public order and for the security and security of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, and to ensure the safe return of exiled and refugees. Whether it is a shame, or an act, to ask for a comprehensive application of Resolution 1244 — is not. Therefore, those changes, which we have proposed here, as a club of SPS MPs, accepting significant parts of the proposal by the Government of Serbia, are exactly going towards it -- no one will argue, no one will do anything ugly with the international community. We just want to remind them that they brought that document. That document is a notorious fact, they can't escape from it. The only way they can escape is if those of us who are going to be looking for paliatically and other solutions come forward and weaken the negotiating position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. Our negotiating position is to apply to the entire Security Council Resolution 1244, and nothing more. It's a totally clean legal approach. There's documentation. They brought it, so let them apply it. They're responsible for security and public order. We say there should be elections in Kosovo and Metohija, but there should be elections by meeting Article 9, which will create conditions for all citizens who have been exiled to return to Kosovo and Metohija and to 250 000 Albanians who entered Kosovo and Metohija and who are not registered in election lists before 1999 to leave the territory of the SRJ. Then when normal life, when peace is, when people can make it, when their children go to school without a doubt, then there can be elections, then there can be a vote, but even then we're looking for equality of national communities, we're looking for human rights for Serbs and the rest of the non-Albanian population. We ask that there be no majorization in their own country. Is that an act? (Lowers from the O.R.: Yes. It's an honor to you. Thank God the people are watching what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8145	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8146	Dear People's MPs, there is really no reason to bring polemic tones about things that there is absolutely no dispute. From the point of view of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I can say that almost everything is said, and in terms of linguistic recasting of this text, is acceptable to the government. I think we'll make a mistake if we focus our attention on those shades and if we think we've solved the problem by choosing some other words. It's nothing to argue with. Much sharper words if they help, we accept the strictest words, but what follows behind those words and whether these things change and improve at a level of fact. I think we should talk about facts, not words that describe these facts, especially in a political situation and atmosphere where words are often used to cover up the facts. It is logical that an army that wins does not leave its country's territory and it is logical that the army that has been defeated does not perform or take up that territory. The word victory and defeat contain these consequences. So that army that has been defeated by some interpretations is now in Kosovo and Metohija and we are dealing with this cruel fact. It's not worth it to cover it with any other words or rubber words, we need to see what can be done under these circumstances. Always living people can do something. If they don't care about what they're going to do, but they're taking care of how to describe their situation to make it better, then we're going to miss out on that opportunity to do not what would satisfy us all and that would satisfy our interests, but do something that would improve the situation. Politics is one skill where from circumstances given what is best done, not to imagine some ideal possibilities and then to bid on who is more concerned about these ideal options. There's no one in this congregation who doesn't support the greatest demands. That's not the point. If we compete about it, we'll talk about the wrong subject. I'd just like to say a few things that may have appeared here as misunderstandings or misunderstandings. First, how did this proposal happen that you have as a proposal from the two governments? The document was created here with a combination of views proposed by the Serbian government and federal authorities. So the Republic Government is behind the declaration or resolution or I don't even know what we called it, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it's the obligation of the Republic government and there's no reason to change anything, because it happened less than a month ago. That's our position. So this text that you have was created after the joint session of the two governments, since I started, perhaps slightly twisted, that more participants are in the process. One participant is the Republic, and another participant is the federal state, the third participant is Serbs in Kosovo. The combination of all these views produced one text containing basic interests. The main headquarters in the whole document is to invite international organisations to take over their commitments, which have been formulated in Resolution, as we are obliged to assume our obligations, which have also been formulated in Resolution. We're not happy that those obligations are imposed on us either, but they're always obligations for two sides. To the same extent that we assume these obligations, because there is nothing else we can do, we ask international organisations to take over their obligations, because we assume that a civilized political and state life is in this. It's a message, and if that message comes and goes from this congregation, that's enough. We can formulate it at various points, in various ways, in harsh attitudes, but it won't change things much. Another thing, which has appeared here as perhaps a small misunderstanding, is whether we will have any international damage if we have a strong stance or if we reject the constitutional framework, whether it is conditioned by some of our status in international financial, economic and other institutions. I'm responsibly saying it's not. Unlike some other things, such as co-operation with the International Court in The Hague, which is a certain condition and is very clear in international requirements, this attitude does not condition our position. We will not worsen the position of both Yugoslavia and Serbia if we have a different relationship with this constitutional framework than the relationship between international administrators in Kosovo and Metohija. So it's not that we have to have some attitude to save our position, and maybe that's the good side of the whole thing. The bad thing is, that's because our attitude doesn't affect the development of events. So if we as the Assembly say, we do not accept, it will be implemented in a certain way, because we neither have jurisdiction nor have the practical power to prevent that implementation. So we should all be aware of that. Of course, only the organisation of this session and the conclusions of last session of the Assembly clearly state that we do not consider it a good way to resolve the Kosovo crisis and that we do not think that this document is good, neither its title, nor its elements, nor its relationship with the resolution. We generally think it's no good. We can say that it's not good and say that we protest sharply and say we don't accept it. Whatever we say is clear that we have the kind of relationship we have. We suggest as a government that we act realistically, which means that we don't threaten with an empty rifle and that when we say we don't accept it, it means that it's going to cause some terrible consequences and the event is going to change, because then we'd be pretty immature. If we're talking an elevated tone somewhere where we can't actually do anything, we'd better not speak in a raised tone, save a raised tone maybe for other situations, where we might be able to do something about it. If we keep talking in a raised tone, then they won't take us seriously in any other situation. This situation on the basis of the conditions described and given, and they are presented here, I did not explain them in detail, Mr Batic explained them to several other MPs, is a very narrow maneuvering space in which we can act, but it is still a maneuveric space. We can do pretty much that in daytime employment, if we're well organized both as a state and as a government. Unfortunately, we have many obstacles on our way to being well organized. So, our country's institutions have long since functioned as the institutions of the good state, neither in the economy nor in any other matter. The crisis in Kosovo and Metohija is a long-standing crisis and it takes really very effective instruments and a good state administration, clear competences and professional services to manage the crisis, and to make it all right, both the economy and a lot of money. Imagine how much Israel spends to keep the crisis under control in its territory. We have a thousand times less to manage a crisis like that in Israel. So these are all limiting effects, which have no direct link to the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija, but concern our forces as states. Our hope is that by gradually placing the state on healthy feet, we will have the strength to gain greater and greater influence and the greatest crisis we have in our country, and it is in Kosovo and Metohija. But in advance, I warn the public that our influence will not increase, nor will our strength be greater. It will only be bigger if our country is stronger, if it is better organized and if it plans to fill that space that is lost or at least one part of that space that can still be restored. The third and last thing I wanted to intervene on, which is the south of Serbia and the territorial security zone, I think the success of this government and this country is being diminished in solving this problem. He's been belittled for party political reasons, but that's not good, because we've had so little success in the past ten years, it's not good not to admit that little success, too, because we're going to discourage the people. It's the first rate of our territory we've gained sovereignty over in ten years that's been lost, for ten years we've just lost sovereignty over our territory. It's the first time we've ever gotten anything. It's said that this territorial zone was ours anyway. You know how she was ours? It was ours by allowing only our local police forces to move at 2,000 km2 with light police weapons, and the hardest police weapons that were allowed were Kalashnikov's. That means a very limited number of what was called local police. It was subject to interpretation, that it wasn't just the local police, because we interpreted it that way, and there was no way to verify who was there in that area, but there was no special formations or military presence allowed. The military presence was limited in 25km from the administrative border with Kosovo and Metohija. It was a fact written in the Kumanov Agreement. Today our army is on that part of the border with Macedonia. For the first time, one part of our territory has been restored to our jurisdiction and our sovereignty. Today, there are 2,000 km2 of our army, our police, without any control of the weapons it has. She's with tanks and a baby car. I was there when our police car got into those five kilometers. This is a change in the Kumanovo Agreement that has taken place in difficult negotiations, a major process of gaining confidence, and we have managed to unbundle the package that was packaged, in which Kosovo, southern Serbia and Macedonia were three parts of the same topic. There was a plan to go ahead of some new Balkan Dayton and say where the Albanians are, here or there, to see how to regulate it. We have managed to bring it back, the south of Serbia is no longer in any sense related to the Kosovo and Metohija issue, and it is not true that someone is there to distract someone so that some things will happen in Kosovo and Metohija now. Now the territory zone has been distracted, no, these things have been happening for two years. Nothing better or worse happened before November last year, when there was a crisis in the territorial zone, in Kosovo and Metohija itself. The same thing happened. Except now that at 2,000km2 Serbia has gained the right to sovereignty. I think it's one procedure that shows that even in difficult situations, if you have a plan, if you act calmly, if you don't threaten with an empty rifle, you can make some progress. That progress is not great because the situation we have found is not good. If that situation hadn't been so bad, we'd have achieved more of the stakes we've had over the last 150 days. But if we don't respect these people's efforts, the fact that with the huge efforts of the lobby, which are against Serbia, it was prevented, and ultimately not prevented, Serbia ended up winning. The victory may be small, small in the sense that it is not such a large territory compared to Kosovo and Metohija, but it is a step in the right direction. I think it's a model for solving other problems. If we're talking about the return of our army, the part that's supposed to be, it's a similar model. So what belongs to us under international resolutions, with smart policy, with determined daily, diplomatic, political insistence, along with lobbying with friendly states, we can take this next little step. Not to spread illusions that we can quickly solve what's been abandoned for decades, not just ten years back, but that it's been abandoned for decades, that we can take care of it in 100 days, in 200 or 1,000. And the next generations will solve this problem, but it's up to us to leave it in a better look than we found it. We found him in a very bad state, but now we can say that the state of Serbia is in a much better position than it was on 5 October 2000. It's not that much, but it's not negligible either. There will be much more if we are reasonable, if we are unique about it and if we do not bid on words, about expressions. We, as the Government of Serbia, are trying to work more on a plan that is not public, trying to support that part of the Serbian people who live compactly, to find a solution to support Serb enclaves and to strengthen our physical presence, and that all of this is happening in the frameworks set by international resolutions and imperatives that we did not want, but that we cannot change so easily. We, as Government, wish we had found an empty sheet of paper and we would define what we want in Kosovo and Metohija. We found an empty footnote. That piece of paper was printed hard. There's barely anything that can be written, and now we're trying to get out of this little empty space that we fill with our own politics, spread and spread. If anyone has a better idea what we can really do better, let them say. If someone has a suggestion on what we can look for and be more radical in some verbal sense, it won't help us all. I think we've had a lot of empty radicalism in these last ten years, that we're all tired of it and that especially that people in Kosovo and Metohija are tired of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8147	Mr. Baralic answers, if I'm not mistaken, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8148	Mr. President, I checked in on time, but you didn't notice me, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, Rule 95, I think there was a breach of Article 99, Item 1 and 2 in the presentation of the People's MP, Hope Kolundzia. Among other things, she said that the MPs here acted as if they had come to a pirate's dinner. Dear gentlemen, the geese in the Serbian and Montenegrin people have a better place than they think and declares themselves here before us a esteemed MP. Thanks to these geese, Filip Višnic, Vuk Stefanovic recorded, among other things, a song called "Kosovo Girl". He would die of shame today if he had a doubt that at least some of what was said. It's a mix-up in the O.R. It may be an anachronism for you, but anyone who wants to be respected must respect others. I believe that the party MP responsible for what is happening in the south of Serbia and is participating in power, as Mr Nebojsa Covic has participated, must think better of the guslas because it is in the Serbian parliament. So, please, Mr. President, that the National Assembly declares a breach of Article 99, Section 1 and 2. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8149	I wasn't in the O.R., and I didn't hear what kind of guslas it was, but I don't know that there are pirates here who would be offended and hurt, I really don't know, I hear from my colleague that there was no insult, there was no qualifications. Really, I can't understand that I could answer better than this much inaccurate answer. I can put it to the vote that the MPs say that in their presentation, Mrs Hope Kolundji was injured by Article 99. Rules of Procedure. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 31, against 91, a abstentioned one, did not vote 50, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted Mr Baralic's proposal. The People's MP, Mr. Seselj, came forward for the second time, followed by the MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to this latest exhibit by Zoran Djindjic. Zoran Djindjic is talking about our empty rifle. I don't think our gun is quite empty. Some of them would have found a bullet in it. We have three very unfavourable legal documents in front of us, such as the Chernomidin-Ahtisari Agreement, the Kuman Agreement and Resolution 1244 of the Security Council. They are very unfavorable for the Serbian people. Unfortunately, they were accepted by Serbian political representatives against the will of Serbian radicals. Now, what is it? It's here. It's accepted and it exists. The moment it was accepted, it was extremely unfavourable. In the meantime, things were so escalating that we have to grab on to some of the specific provisions of these three agreements. Because Kosovo and Metohija occupier -- the NATO Pact, UNMIK and all others in a row, including the UN Secretary-General's representative, greatly exceeded the three basic documents. I can't criticize you as a government. I can be an individual because of the political role of that time. As a government, I can't criticize you for accepting these three documents. But I can criticize you if you allow Western forces to go further than what they've committed us to in these three documents. They are right now doing these constitutional frameworks. You have a solution. That's what this congregation can do. Nice to compare the Constitutional Framework to the contents of these three documents. Everywhere where the Constitutional Framework deviates from the content of these three documents, let's categorically say we don't accept. Why is it so important to say - we don't accept? Because the international and legal status of Kosovo and Metohija cannot be changed without the consent of Serbia and the SRJ. That's what the pain of the Americans is. That's where we have to let them know - there's no change. We had to accept this. Whether we had to or not, that's another question. That's what we'll do before our sons and grandchildren to plead and to submit our accounts. But now, what's done is done. We don't have to take it any further and we can't take it any further. So there's no taxi, no taxes, no customs, there's nothing that's not foreseen in these three acts before. And stick to it, so you don't give in anywhere. As we have attacked the previous ones, who have yielded according to the Chernomidin-Ahtisari Plan or the Kumanov Agreement or the Security Council Resolution, we will now attack you if you continue to yield in the same direction, to stop at a certain point. As far as these three municipalities in southern Serbia are concerned, do not spread optimism excessively. There's no reason for optimism. First, what did we throw up there? Have we regained control of the territory? We didn't. Covic has not yet appeared before the Assembly to report to us, to submit all the documents he signed, all the agreements he made there. We haven't seen that yet. We heard. We know the contents, but we didn't have it in front of us. Not to mention the details until we get it. What's the point? That terrorists now demobilize. That's what the NATO Pact is doing now. The NATO Pact does it the most. They demobilize and immediately move to civilian police in Serbian uniforms. We won't have any barracks in the Preshevo municipality. Now there's an army of barracks in the former Chicago factory, in the Chicago plant. We learned that a Shiptar in Kumanovo bought the plant and Covic ordered our army to withdraw. When our army retreats, we will no longer have it in the area of the entire Presevo municipality. There will be multiethnic police, 93-94% of the Shiptara. In fact, we're legally giving them control over the entire Presevo municipality instead of what they had only in that five-mile safety zone. That's the point. It's a similar situation with the Bujanovac. That's what the people should be told now. Otherwise, you see, I'm kind to your government. Last week I was pleasantly surprised by the exposure of Vladan Batic in this assembly. I realized that your government doesn't always think what it says, that you have some inner secrets of your own. In many, many things you are more extreme than Serbian radicals. I was fascinated to see how much Vladan Batic hates Croats.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8151	We are discussing Kosovo and the constitutional framework.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8152	I'm speaking to the Prime Minister, based on his exposure. I've been using my 10 minutes and I haven't said anything offensive. Let me finish. I'll be done soon. I'm about to run out of time. Three and a half minutes. I was fascinated to see how much Vladan Batic hates Croats. In the absence of any argument against me, he drew on the fact that there are some Croats who have the same last name as me. If I were here, if you hadn't broken the law, you'd have kicked me out of Parliament, and my legs and my hands would have convinced all the MPs of the SRS to pull the motion to replace Vladan Batic when he did so. You know, he hates Croats so much he hated his last name. When he was pictured here that there are also Croats named Batic, he made a decision to change his last name. Now he's made up a new last name and now he's going to be called "Governmental Galenika." You see how well-intentioned I am to you when you reveal your true nature. You're the ones who hate Croats. That doesn't bother me at all. But it bothers me that Vladan Batic hates our brothers from Kosovo and Metohija - Gorance, Muslims, Turks, Roma, Egyptians and all those who, together with the Serbs, have suffered and shared Serbia's sad fate. The Serbian Radical Party was against participation in the Rambuje conference. We made an open statement. But when it was already going to Rambouje, it was decided by the assembly majority, it was nothing more natural than for representatives of all ethnic groups to come. There were also Albanians who were loyal to Serbia. A little bit, you can say very little, we don't know exactly, no one counted them, and the question is how many were allowed to say it openly, but there were. Nothing was more normal than going into the world, if it was already going, I knew what the ultimatum was like there, so I didn't think there was any need to go, that representatives of all ethnic groups would come. And now the Serbian government should help the ethnic groups consolidate, organise. They're all over Serbia. Many Turks, however, went to Turkey. There are Muslims who have gone who knows where. But what is here in Serbia, to be organised because Serbs will be incomparably stronger, their positions in Kosovo and Metohija, if they continue to perform together with members of other ethnic communities. So, Vladan Batic, it's good for him to hate Croats so much that he decided to change his last name, but he shouldn't hate everyone else besides the Croats. There are friendly nationalities, national minorities with whom we shared both good and evil. You, as Prime Minister, should draw attention to him in the future. Let him strike to the will of the Croats, but don't let these others matter to the Serbian state, to its stability and its security. (loud from the O.R.: Ah, jeep? ) For the jeep will suit me Dusan Mihajlović, do not worry about anything. As for The Hague tribunal, mentioned by Zoran Djindjic, as our obligation directly set up, you will get used to Western forces working on their ultimatums. You, in fact, volunteered to work on their demands. Either you will be their servants, the blind executioners of their orders, or one day the point will appear where one of you will say - now you can't. He's got to show up sometime. Whether it will now appear with Slobodan Milosevic or with Momčal Perisic or with Vladan Batic or on the fifth, tenth, it is now necessary to think about it, but once the opportunity comes to that point. If you go, you give in, you give in, you give in, you give in, you give in, and after a year you say, "We can't do it now, what have you done?" If you're ready to complete every warrant from the West, then say it openly. You assured us that NATO is your friend, that the Western forces are your friends, that their willingness to help the Serbian people is obvious, that they are bothered only by Milosevic's regime. There, that regime has fallen, you've come to power. What's bothering them now? They're distracted by the opposition in the assembly. Stop the opposition, at least that's easy for you. No one in the world will condemn you for abolishing the opposition. You sign with a decree and one day there's no opposition. You can do the same, but think about the consequences. Think about how you behave both in internal and foreign politics. In foreign policy, you are extremely humble towards great powers, towards Western forces, and in internal politics you are full of impatience towards political opponents. You'd step on everything, step on it, run over it, kill it, destroy it, liquidate it, shut it down.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8153	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8154	That's what you're doing. Watch out for another thing, pull some experience, some lessons from the socialist experience. They were not up to your knees to persecute political opponents, nor to your knees, nor to their knees, but they believed that this would never befall them. What will happen to you, who behave like skiers from 1944 and 1945, who began to step on everything in front of you, to liquidate. Take care of it. You know, in a moment, the government gets lost. It's much harder to win power than to lose, and you know the situation between us, between you and the people you're surrounded by and that there's always a head in the trumpet. You have no one to trust, to help you when it comes to that moment. If you want a foothold here, a foothold in Serbia, a foothold in parliament, then you need to change your attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8155	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8156	You're not looking for unity, you're looking for support when situations like this are critical, and you haven't shown us a genuine desire to change that and nothing really changes. Absolutely nothing. One minister runs one policy, the other one, the third one, etc. So are Kosovo and Metohija. You did not agree with each other, and you want Serbia to agree. Serbia is smarted up by your behavior. You have all the media under your control and now we see exactly which wing is controlled by which media, and the free media in Serbia has never been less than today, are almost gone. You can't solve any problems that way. Kosovo's problem is easily lifted. This is where one of your MPs came out for a pay phone and said, "let's give it up, let's throw it away, etc."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8157	Mr. Seselj, last time you said you didn't hear me, I warned you twice on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8158	I didn't really hear you. I'm done. So there is a willingness between you and Kosovo to sign off. However, Kosovo, tomorrow something else, will come to the turn of the Shumadi. He's got to stop at that one time. I didn't hear you very well, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8159	Dragisa Djokovic's MP has the word, followed by MP Dragan Cholic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8160	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, the situation in which we are located is very serious, as well as the subject, and we as the Assembly should be very responsible, and I will behave in that spirit, because I do not see this speaker as a place where we will deal with verbal exhibitionism, where we will achieve cheap political points that Serbian people can cost dearly. First of all, concerning the proposal for a constitutional framework adopted by Hans Hekerup, I would just like to inform this assembly and those who do not know that we have held a meeting with representatives of the Republic of the government, the Federal Government and the President of the SRJ, where the first statement from that meeting says that the constitutional framework declared by Hans Hekerup as the Serbian side is unacceptable. I want to stick to it, and I want to do it again. It means that such frames are unacceptable for Serbs. Normally, I'm not going back to what's been the last 10 years, because in those 10 years, it's only 10 minutes. There was a lot of bad, a lot of evil, nothing good. I'll talk about what's now and what can be constructive, what can be done and fixed. Why am I saying that the Constitutional Framework for Serbs is unacceptable? Unfortunately, it is my opinion and impression, and I believe that we will agree that the world is not ruled by law, but simply by power and power, by one who has power, as in Kosovo are representatives of the international community who have come on a mission that should be a mission of peace, which for Serbs has turned into a mission of unrest, a mission of exodus, a mission of genocide, and gentlemen can forcefully take away this Kosovo. But we as Serbs, as responsible people, have no right to say -- yes, it's okay, you took away Kosovo from us, and we agree, you expelled Serbs and we agree with that, and we need to ban Serbs. They can do anything by force, but we're here to simply not to raise our tone, here I am lowering it, not to yell, to shoot with an empty rifle, but to say that it's right from the point of view for a small country, for a small nation unacceptable, to try as much as we can to warn them to return to respect for their rights. I will remind you of the words of the newlywed Vukasin of Klepac, who told his executioner in Jasenovac - only your child is doing his job. Kouchner started a bad job and someone went on after him. We can't, and we don't have a right, and I'm never going to say that both Kusner and Hekerup are doing a good job and that the mission they represent, which they are handling, is doing a good job. They, unfortunately, are doing a job for the account of Shipara, they are looking for, or accomplishing, what the Shiparian aspirations are, and we know what the Cypriot aspirations are -- independent Kosovo, Kosovo without Serbs. The fewer Serbs, the more independence. Are we going to accept that? I'm sure we won't. I'll tell you that Bernard Kouchner is at the opening of the monument of Adam Yasari in the village of Prekaza, I won't talk about who was Adam Yasari, we all know that, he said -- never again will the Serbian foot set foot in the Albanian village. If so, why would the Albanian foot of an Albanian police officer and soldier set foot in the Serb village? Why would she seduce order and peace and walk in the Serbian village? If a Serb tax collector or a Serbian parent cannot enter an Albanian village, why would an Albanian tax collector or an Albanian parent come to the Serbian village? There's a solution somewhere, ladies and gentlemen, and there's this doorknob we're coming up with. So, when the whole of Europe is focused on integration where we talk about a single Europe, a Europe of the region, a Europe of unification, why now create a unique, unitary, centralised Kosovo, with absolutely all elements of majorisation, where neither the "S" nor the "J" of Serbia and Yugoslavia, and even that, I won't return, was written in the Constitution in 1974, and then you had a single postal system, a single license plate, a unique ID card, a passport, a currency, etc. Therefore, none of this is in the provisional regulations, which however, was brought by Kushner and continued by Hekerup, nor is it in the temporary transitional frameworks that are now being proposed. Why would we agree to all this? What do we get if we say yes? We'll get that we'll disappear slowly, at once or at war, it doesn't matter what the period of the Serbs' disappearance will be. No one would ever forgive you for that. I say once again, they can take everything from us by force, but it's ours not to accept that force and admit it. Simply, Serbs have the right to demand that unless Albanians want anything in common with Serbs, with Belgrade, why would Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have anything to do with their Pristina, their mission and their system? Once again, to repeat what many before me have said, there is no UNMIK's boob, but there is a ship's system, and UNMIK is just one mask, one service to meet their wishes. So how many rights do Albanians have, why not so many rights to Serbs? If there cannot be a unitary Yugoslavia, if there cannot be a unitary and centralised Serbia, why would there be a centralised and unitary Kosovo? This is what must be the request of this assembly, our state policy and our national policy, because we as responsible people must have our own demands, our own strategy. I'm not sure that we now have a clearly defined strategy, our demands and our conclusions. I'll give you one example. It is said, after a certain time, when conditions are met, a number of members of the Yugoslav and police armies will be returned. I simply ask our responsible, those who follow the implementation of the Resolution, to ask who is responsible, what conditions should be acquired, what Serbs should do to meet that part of the resolution. As for all other parts of the resolution, annexes and sub-points, we should also ask what it is that we Serbs need to do to obtain it. Don't just point us at negotiating, negotiating and talking to Albanians. Had we been able to negotiate and talk, or those before us, that mission probably wouldn't have come here. The latest announcement, another negative example of the mission that has turned into a Serbian disaster mission, is a decision, i.e. their regulation on the setting up of 19 border crossings between Kosovo and the rest of Serbia. What does that lead to, and what does that mean? It means that if the neighbour, if the Serb village is next to the other territory of Kosovo and the other one on the territory of the administrative part of Serbia, cannot cross unauthorized. You know what, although the Constitution was so decentralisation in 1974, and then you went freely from Serbia to Bosnia, Croatia and Slovenia. And now Resolution says - the sovereignty of the state, but you can be sovereign and go all the way to 19 crossings. And that, of course, you see what cynicism and what amorality is said to prevent terrorists. Now that the terrorists, we say, are humiliated, defeated and disarmed, you can see who armed them, I don't want to say again, now it's said to be because of that. And, gentlemen, it is an obligation for that mission and for KFOR to disarm these terrorists, to prevent them from crossing the border, and not for that reason it introduces border crossings between the rest of Serbia and Kosovo, because it is simply a matter of sovereignty, if it is said that Kosovo is part of Yugoslavia, and Yugoslavia is part of Serbia, hence Kosovo is not outside Serbia, not in Mars, but in Serbia, and Serbia is in Yugoslavia. Therefore, as I see time running, it is difficult to put everything on Kosovo in ten minutes, I can say that the state, or government, and one and the other, must strengthen their functions that should work. When I say state functions, it's those functions that no one will blame you for strengthening those functions. The education system, the education system, must be extremely integrated and strengthened by the Serbian state. Then there's the health system, the culture system, you don't think we'll have Albanian theaters, their ballets and everything. The system of culture, then the system of media and information, youth and sport, and these are all spheres, not to list further, in which our country must be much more present, much better organised on these issues. Finally, I will say one thing, what I object to this government or the Assembly, will be found who is responsible, yet I would like to be a little cynical, that here today, Zoran Angelkovic is called Bucky, as he is still at the head of the Interim Executive Council of Kosovo, which has 229 officials. And I'm not going to say what they have from material technical means, how much funds they have, how much money they spend a month, and we haven't found it appropriate to still solve that Ujdura and simply say whether this PIK works or doesn't work, whether it needs to be transformed and how to transform. We took power on January 22nd, and it turns out that Zoran Angelkovic is president, to repeat once again the interim executive council of Kosovo and Metohija. It should also appear to the international community. So unless we have any intention, and I don't know why we don't want to take it down and solve it, take away what it's doing, and there's a lot of things and there's a lot of abuse in it, then let's respect it and invite it to participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8161	The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic, followed by Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8162	Ladies and gentlemen, from this document of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the exposé of Zoran Djindjic, we can conclude that the government has no intention of dealing more seriously with the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. The sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been seriously compromised. Maybe this is too mild a word. The fact is that the Western forces led by the United States and NATO are working thoroughly and very closely to break up the state of the Serbian people. It is clear to everyone, but it is not clear to Zoran Djindjic and the government of the Republic of Serbia. Is UNMIK able to take over the federal authority, whether UNMIK should perform and organise in Kosovo and Metohija a function of federal customs? So then Zoran Djindjic says - we knew about establishing customs, so he's denying and saying - we didn't know. You are also guilty of what you do consciously and unconsciously, willingly and reluctantly, you are guilty of both acts and insubordination. In the pre-election campaign, you highlighted the problem of Kosovo and Metohija and your willingness to resolve this problem permanently, and now there is nothing but your debauchery and humility. Serbian citizens are also deceived and deceived by this problem. The violation of the Constitution and the law of this country becomes your daily appearance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8163	Mr. Colic, since this morning I have warned all the People's Messengers, and here you are, to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8164	Come on, make my day.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8165	We're not opening a question of responsibility, we're trying here to do a whole other job today, and we're talking about constitutional frameworks...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8166	Whenever you warn me, you make my afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8167	You can go wild, but it's my duty to warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8168	We Serbian radicals are not the only ones who have accepted the Serbian national interest in the devastating Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan. Dr Vojislav Seselj warned you of all the consequences of courting the United States and Western satellites. They certainly have a goal they will not give up on, which is the creation of new federal units that would make up Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina. Is that Serbian national interest? What guarantee does the government of the Republic of Serbia give to the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, what protection, what rights? What to expect from the occupiers, didn't experience so far teach us that the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija have no guaranteed rights, not national minorities, not the historical people of proud history, religion, traditions and culture. How many Serb saints have been defiled and how much will the Arnauts defile? Every honorable Serb today grieves because what has been a Serbian country for centuries is slowly becoming the state of Arnaut. What can the Serbian people expect from the name Hans, Franjo, Ante or Meso? We haven't experienced enough through history who our friends are and who's evil enough. Should I look forward to the flag and coat of arms of Kosovo and Methoi with a black eagle? Should the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija stand still when they listen to the Arnautic Anthem "Eye Our Flag Together". What rights will Serbs have and what treatment in the Kosovo and Metohija congregations? The same as the Serbs in the Croatian Parliament and the same as the Serbian radicals in the Serbian Parliament. We remember those Shiptar's "independent" courts and Cypriot judges who cut off the three-day sentence for raping a Serb child. Is there a sadder moment than when we MPs decide on something that represents the humiliation and slavery and occupation of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. In return, we entered zone B, entered our Serbian courtyard, and that's the DOS government and the media hitting all the bells and the talambas. A large number of Serbian citizens follow this session, especially Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and those who are proud to fight and stick to Kosovo and Metohija, as well as a large number of unfortunate people who have been exiled from Serb hearths. During the election of Zoran Djindjic as Serbian Prime Minister, I expressed my doubts about the patriotism of Zoran Djindjic and said that for me and the Serb people, the example of patriotism is that the wounded Serb fighter in the wound hides the Serbian flag so as not to fall into the hands. Zoran Djindjic told me that for him, patriotism is when he and his family can travel freely around the world. Travel freely to Zorana Djindjic around the world, no one will stop you, during which time the Serbian mother will wear blackness and cry over the graves of her sons throughout Kosovo and Metohija. The Kosovo Testament is a Serb sacred sealed with the blood of Serbian knights of the Christ-loving army of Emperor Lazar. Travel to the Igumans, for the Serbian people, for the Serb shrines and monasteries, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8169	As after Mr. Petkovic, I must now ask the MPs to still retain what dignity we have had in our work so far and to focus their attention on what is on the agenda. The word is made by Mr. Marjanski, and after that, the MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8170	My exposure consists of several questions. Namely, I would ask the Serbian Prime Minister a few questions - does accepting this legal framework mean that we are losing something or getting something in Kosovo? What does it mean if we accept the legal framework offered? What do we get and what do we lose? What if we don't accept it? Are we losing something or not? Is it perhaps a realistic outcome - a referendum? And another question, is there a minimum under which this congregation and this government will not go? From what I understand, Mr. Djindjic's discussion, whether we accept it or not, that it is a nearly complete act, that if we do not accept it, the process will continue, and if we accept it in the text, with sharper or milder words, nothing will change again. Then why the discussion in this congregation, why are we offered this material if we can't change anything? I'd like to ask a few more questions - does this mean, if the legal framework is accepted, is this the beginning of the separation of the Vojvodina? Namely, there are rumors and signals that some of the parties in Vojvodina want to have their own country by a similar example. Will it be, after the separation of Kosovo, Yugoslavia and Serbia? I would ask Mr. President concrete questions - whether the Serbian Prime Minister can guarantee, morally and materially, as our people say, that he guarantees his head that Kosovo and Metohija will remain in Serbia as a province, which means also in the Yugoslavia, that all Serbs and non-Albanians will live safely, that power will be established under the law of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that the Constitution of Serbia and Yugoslavia will be respected? A very important thing, if the Serbian government or negotiators with KFOR have some knowledge, some guarantees that it will be so, what if not, negotiations are done, simply, as things stand, and we lose Kosovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8171	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8172	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Prime Minister-in-Office, the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija, which announced on May 15th this year a special representative of the UN Secretary-General for Kosovo and Metohija, has far-reaching consequences for the Serbian and other non-Albanian populations, as well as for Serbia and the SRJ. The constitutional framework has met almost 100% of the Albanian population's demands, and all requests by the Serbian side, which have been defined in around 30 amendments, have been rejected. The constitutional framework interrupts all ties between the legal system of Kosovo and Metohija with Serbia and the SRJ. In fact, neither Serbia nor Yugoslavia are mentioned anywhere in the document. The constitutional framework, independent of UN Security Council Resolution 1244, contains all elements of statehood for Kosovo and Metohija, which means a further step towards full exemption from Serbia and the SRJ. From today's extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I expect it to show a unique interest for Kosovo and Metohija to remain in Serbia and for the exiled Serbs and other non-Albanians to return to their homes. I don't think it's appropriate, true, nor productive for the state of Cosmet to indicate that the main culprit is power in the previous decade. It is not the main culprit or the authority of the SPS, nor the recent president of the SRJ, Slobodan Milosevic. In order to remind some historical facts, I will try to point to some of them, which resulted in the largest part of the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. The foundations for the creation of major Albania were set up by Albanian champions at a meeting called the so-called "Arms of Albania". The Prizren League in 1937. When, at the Second AVNOJ meeting on 29 November 1943, the Yugoslav Federation was authorised by a decision to build Yugoslavia on a federal principle, individual leaders of the Cypriot ethnicity from Kosovo and Metohija disagreed with the decision in Jajc. They hurried that at a conference in the village of Bujan, in Djakovak Malaysia, it was so-called The Bujan conference, held on 31 December 1943 until 2 January 1944, brought a resolution on self-determination and accession to Albania. It is known that individuals, who were there after decades, were not only in Kosovo and Metohija, but also in Serbia and Yugoslavia, participated in the conference. The status of Cosmeta was finally resolved at a meeting of the Kosmeta District People's Liberation Committee from 8 July to 10 July 1945. It then decided that the province, with autonomy status, would join Serbia in the Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia. When groups of German armies from Greece and Albania began to withdraw through Cosmet in late 1944, there was a massive rebellion to join Albania. It wasn't just ballistics, it was taking on a much wider character. How long did it take the force of the People's Liberation Army to only rebel around Drenica to choke and how many lives were it paid to break the counter-revolution? Forgive me, I'm here to do a little digression. Last Saturday, i.e. On May 19th, I attended the Prepolje funeral of Captain and Class Velisha Kijanovic. The late Velisa Kijanovic died on May 17th on St. Elijah's Hill near Vranj. Velish's great-grandfather has been a participant in the Balkan and First World War, and his grandfather has been a participant of World War II since 1941. This young officer, Velisa, has been promoted twice, and was soon to become the Yugoslav Army's major. His favorite was in his neighborhood and not surprising, especially because of the sacrifice to defend his country, which thousands of citizens paid their respects and attended the funeral. The late Velisha comes from the small village of Kamen Gora near Prepolje. From that Stone Gora, in November 1944, 18 fighters were sent to Kosovo and Metohija to help break the counter-revolution. Of those 18 fighters, four men lost their lives in Cosmet. I am going back to certain historical facts that led to this state that is now happening in Kosovo and Metohija. The Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia's MUP, on 6 March 1945, brings a temporary ban on the Kosovo and Metohija columnist. These are the colonists who were exiled from Cosmeta at the beginning of the war in 1941.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8173	Mr. Petric, so far we'll get the truth to old Sparta, let's see what's wrong with the constitutional frameworks and what we can do now, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8174	Dear President, I will fit in at this time of 10 minutes, I want to point out that it is often misused that for the past 10 years alone, the authorities are to blame for what has happened to us, to remind those who know or colleagues who do not know, to inform themselves that these are circumstances, and my appeal will certainly be to seek a common solution, to return the evicted people to Kosovo and to preserve this area in the composition of Serbia and Yugoslavia. So it was the colonists who, after World War I, mostly from 1922 to 1929, settled on Cosmet. Colonists were not assigned land by privates, it was state land, forests, chicars, mornings. So, the land was divided, taken from the greats and some smaller plots than the winners even. The land is shared by the Albanian poor. The settlers mainly came from the poor areas of Montenegro, Bosnia, Like, Banije, Dalmatia Zagorje, Kopalnika, Toplice. They built up their households in the mornings. The beginning of the war was immediately expelled, houses were mostly burned down, and the livestock and the economic inventory were taken over by Albanians. Any neighbours, Albanians from Albania, moved into those houses. Immediately after the war ended, these unfortunates and homeless were banned from returning to their properties, and the main role played by the KP Cosmeta district committee. You know who played the lead in it. There were also responsible people who understood the far - reaching consequences and tried to influence the return of these emigrants to their estates. One of these bright figures is Sreten Vukosavljevic, then a member of the first government of the Democratic Federation Yugoslavia and the minister of agrarian reform and colonisation. Happy Vukosavljevic as a sociologist, in fact our founder of sociology and university professor, knew well about the problem. After nineteen years, Prepoljac was a trustee, i.e. the chief trustee for agrarian reform and colonisation for Macedonia, Kosovo and Metohija and other areas. He was well aware of the situation and the Kosovo Metohic issue, which he vigorously advocated for the mass return of Serbs and Montenegrins who were expelled from Cosmeta in 1941. Unfortunately, neither he as a minister nor his Federal Ministry of Colony was competent to resolve it. Some strange views of the then federal government were transferred to the jurisdiction of the Agrarian Council, headed by Mosha Piyada. When he asked Moša Pijade for tens of thousands of Cosmet families to move to Vojvodina in the fall of 1945...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8175	Let us go, Moshe Piyada, please. You have another minute, by mistake repeat time, you have a minute, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8176	Happy Vukosavljevic cried out, quote - not Mosha, for God's sake, brother, not like that. Nothing helped and a revision of pre-war agrarian reform was carried out. According to some estimates, these measures amounted to about 100,000 Serbs and Montenegrins left Cosmet at the time. Under various pressures from the period, down to NATO aggression, about 200,000 Serbs and Montenegrins are believed to have moved out of Cosmeta. We were reminded of the November 1968 demonstration on the day of the national holiday in Albania. Then Tito was alive, and the separatists did not hesitate to express their moods. Aren't we fresh memories and events from 1981. Since 1989, we have witnessed the activities of Albanian separatists and terrorists.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8177	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8178	The process, I bring to an end, the injustices last not for the last decade, but for hundreds of years. I didn't mention a village here under Arsenija Charnojevic, or a settlement of Albanians behind the Curse. After this reminder of certain historical circumstances, I think it takes us to go back only 10 years and not accuse each other. It is necessary to decide and seek ways to strengthen Serbia and Yugoslavia in Kosovo and Metohija, and this allows us to resolution 1244 of the UN. It is necessary that this assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SRJ Assembly and the Federal Government, together with the world, do as possible to prevent the total ethnic cleansing of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbs and other non-Albanian populations. That this part of our country is not being attached to "great Albania". I am convinced that, independently of party membership, we all consider this to be one of the most important problems for us, and that we should do everything in our power to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the form of Serbia and the SRJ.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8179	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8180	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, allow me to introduce the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, which has been declared by a special representative of the UN Secretary General and on the proposal for a conclusion submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on this matter and the announced elections in Kosovo and Metohija, I retain your attention on several important issues. The constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija should not be accepted because it does not provide for equality between the Serbian and other national and ethnic communities in Kosovo and Metohija with the Albanian national community, as well as because it is directly directed against the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the SRJ. It is noted that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia and part of the SRJ and the formation of institutions, such as the Kosovo Assembly, the government of Kosovo, the president of Kosovo, the courts and other authorities and their competencies, means in fact the negation of the constitutional justice system of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. The constitutional framework through the structure and way of working of temporary institutions, parliaments, the Presidency of the Assembly and government denies the principle of equality and equality of national and ethnic communities in Kosovo and Metohija, because it favours the principle of majorisation and does not establish the obligation to make decisions by consensus. The constitutional framework, in my opinion, is in fact the last act of a policy led by a number of Western nations gathered in the NATO Pact, a policy towards Serbia and the SRJ, which has been going on for many years and aimed at territorial termination and perhaps the disappearance of the SRJ, but certainly the separation of Kosovo and the Metohija from Serbia-Yugoslavia, legal and factual. The latest act of the policy should certainly be recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence, which should follow the election and constitution of government institutions, and thus fulfil the third condition of state sovereignty, alongside the population and territory. For years now, calling for the need to protect the rights of members of the Albanian minority community in Serbia, as well as the alleged return of autonomy established by the 1974 constitution of the former SFRY, so-called the international community, i.e. Western leading countries are ultimately offering SRJ new and new solutions. As a matter of fact, for our country, worse and worse, which leads to the creation of a special state of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. The behaviour of the leading states of the West towards our country is incorrect, hypocritical, even malicious. All the time back a few years, but now under various explanations of the existence of a non-democratic regime in Serbia and the SRJ, allegedly preventing violence against members of the Albanian minority, preventing humanitarian disaster, establishing a significant self-government in Kosovo, Western countries are actually proposing solutions and taking different measures, which are directed against our country. Among these measures, it certainly stands out by its miraculous character the bombing of NATO forces, which lasted 78 days and caused great human and material casualties. The political changes that followed in our country at the federal and republican level and the arrival of so-called. Democratic forces have not affected the change in the relationship of certain countries with the issue of Kosovo's fate and the Metohija. On the contrary, I believe that Western countries have become even more radical in this matter. I will support this claim with several facts. The February 1999 Rambuje document contained provisions on Serbia and the SRJ and the security of the interests of every national community in Kosovo and Metohija in several places. For example, in the chapter of one of the agreements, Article 3 states that the SRJ has powers in Kosovo and Metohija in the following areas: territorial integrity, the maintenance of the common market within the SRJ, and which will be done in a way that will not descrit and decriminalise Kosovo, monetary policy, defence, foreign policy, customs services, federal taxes, federal sources and other areas specified by the agreement. For the sake of truth, it should be mentioned that the agreement for us was not acceptable because it included additional obligations and provisions that included a referendum by the Albanian minority community after three years and a practical occupation of the entire SRJ territory with NATO troops. A number of other solutions that speak about the content of self-government in Kosovo, but within Serbia and the SRJ have disappeared in a constitutional framework made up of a special representative of the Secretary-General. Obviously, Mr. Hekerup has made a selection of certain solutions to his understanding of the content of autonomy. It is important to stress that, even after our country's bombing and the arrival of a civilian and military mission of UNMIK and KFOR in Kosovo and Metohija, the policy of ignoring our country and directly to the Albanian minority community continues. The UN Security Council Resolution 1244 is not respected, its provisions are either violated or not applied. There is more concrete evidence for this than the fact that regulations are passed that practically mean denying the sovereignty of Serbia and the SRJ, then there is no peace, security, tolerance, full freedom of movement for all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. The fact was also confirmed by the relevant OSCE bodies that were investigating the situation of ethnic minorities in Kosovo and Metohija and found that there was an absolute deterioration of the security situation and a violation of minority rights. Neither UNMIK nor KFOR have prevented one campaign led by the Kosovo Liberation Army against all other ethnic communities, leading to the expulsion of several hundred thousand people. UNMIK and KFOR have done nothing to banish those Albanians who have entered it illegally. More than 1,300 Serbs were abducted during their term of office. Not to mention the number of burned and destroyed houses and other housing. Kosovo has turned into a centre of smuggling, arms trade and war in the Balkans. International representatives did not allow a return to a number of Yugoslav and Serbian personnel, as recorded in Resolution 1244. No agreement was signed with the SRJ on UNMIK and KFOR status in Kosovo either. Despite all of this, therefore, by the complete fiasco of UNMIK and KFOR, at least according to what was their obligation under the Resolution, a special adviser not only brings this framework, but also schedules the province's elections for November 17th. The goal is clear, after the creation of ethnically clean space, the so-called clean space should be organized. elections. Practically, unilaterally. Legalise the existing situation, and then, calling for the election will of citizens, declare an independent state. For this reason, I believe that the state's response to both federal and republican level must be clearer, more energetic, both in terms of condemning what UNMIK and KFOR are doing, and in terms of the country's strategic intentions and ways of protecting state territory and ensuring the equality of all ethnic and national communities in Kosovo and Metohija. I do not think that the real expectations of the author of the information we have received in the material for today's session are that a special adviser to the Secretary-General will use his powers to ensure that the rights of the community and their members are protected. On the contrary. We have practically seen that 95% of the amendments given by representatives of the Serbian side have been rejected. The way of work is also discussed by the fact that representatives of ethnic communities have neither met nor had the possibility of communication, but everything has been done through a special adviser. By doing so, he practically refused to discuss the content of all these amendments, at the expense of Serbia and Yugoslavia. Fellow Members and fellow Members, the solution to the current situation can be found on the following grounds: strict and consistent respect for Resolution 1244, and in particular the obligations undertaken by the international community, the security of public order and peace, security, the security of refugee returns and displaced persons and the rule of law; the Security Council should assess, on our request, the work of UNMIK and KFOR; all this should bring into line with Resolution 1244; the significant autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija under the SRJ, provided for by Resolution 1244, can be ensured by applying the achieved standards of minority policy in the world and by a special representative of the Secretary-General on this trail to amend the document. Of course, if he wants a fair solution. The federal government should launch an initiative to conclude a regional agreement, which would establish the obligations of the Balkan states in respect of territorial integrity, but also with regard to the content of rights that ensure the equality of minority members with the majority population. I think it is necessary to require a limitation of the time period of the United Nations Mission for Kosovo and Metohija and to assume the obligations of our state authorities. The Republic and the Federal Government should make it clear that failure to comply with the provisions of Resolution 1244 means that there are no normal conditions for holding these province elections and that their results will not be recognised. For all these reasons, I propose that the proposed conclusions be revised by the Working Group of the National Assembly and that, in a clearer and more energetic manner, the relationship of this Parliament not only according to the document, but also to other issues related to Kosovo and Metohija, in the manner proposed by the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8181	The word is by MP Slobodan Tomovic, followed by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8182	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to comment on some of the parts of the constitutional framework for temporary self-government and on the proposed conclusions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The preamble says that, recalling that Security Council Resolution 1244 provides for the establishment and development of national self-government in Kosovo, pending a final agreement, that respecting the historic, legal and constitutional development of Kosovo and taking into account the legitimate aspirations of Kosovo's population to live in freedom and in peace and friendly relations with other residents in the region (communication in the hall)... So, this intonation through the conscious neglect of the fact that autonomy is provided within the SRJ, not within the international administration in the territory of Yugoslavia, directly affects Yugoslavia's sovereignty and sovereignty in this territory. It goes on to say, "Noting that since its establishment, the UN's temporary administrative mission in Kosovo and Metohija has been supporting and helping Kosovo's population." I'm saying that this is about cynicism, for the simple reason that it helped is, but it's about the Shiparian population. As for the Serb population, what helped them. We're witnessing that these days and the bell have been arrested, because the bell irritated the Shipares. That's how they help Serbs. Third: "taking into account that based on the efforts taken by UNMIK and on the basis of achievements, including a valuable contribution from Kosovo's population, etc." So the population is expected to participate in Kosovo in free and fair elections. I say again that free elections cannot be held until there is freedom in Kosovo, and fair elections cannot be done at all until those who are exiled from Kosovo return to Kosovo. Because I guess it's just justice for those victims to return to their hearths. Further in the preamble, it is said, "Determining that in the context of the fires defined by the resolution, responsibility has been transferred to the temporary institutions of self-government, etc." It is said that in order to allow for the future status of Kosovo to be determined by one appropriate process, all relevant factors, including the will of the population, will be fully taken into account in the future. This view creates preconditions in an unacceptable and contradictory way for determining Kosovo and Metohija's future status, I stress Kosovo and Metohija, not Kosovo, because on the one hand, it calls for a resolution, which originally implies an agreement on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija within the SRJ, but also, by including the will of the population as an important factor, a political legal basis for implementing a referendum on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, which means secessions. Furthermore, there is talk here about Kosovo. I didn't hear any of the speakers, who were at least behind this speaker today, say it in Kosovo, but Kosovo and Metohija. So that's not in the conclusions. It's either Kosovo and Metohija, or it's just Kosovo, but let's agree on what it is and why it is, if that's the case. The basic provisions of Chapter 1. Kosovo and Metohija are defined as an entity under the provisional international administration, which has unique historical, legal, cultural and linguistic attributes with its population, and is then referred to as undivided territory consisting of municipalities that are the main territorial units of local self-government. So, not by any chance have three basic elements of state sovereignty been defined by this attitude. These are: the population, territory and state authority, which in a very clear way denies and excludes the sovereignty of the SRJ in that part of the territory and is directly contrary to the Resolution. I would especially like to comment on chapter 9, reminding that the Assembly has 122 members according to this proposal. Of those 122, 100 are chosen proportionally, which means - Albanians as a majority population will have that, ten members will have Serbs, ten will have all others. Then, in the presidency of seven there is only one Serb, one of the other nationalities, the rest are the Shipari. I don't think I should say anything now and comment on what Serb status will be in such a community and what they within such communities can expect. If that's all the way it is now, then of course, the question of the conclusions that we're proposing here. I will not specifically comment on the conclusion 1 that has been spoken of, but I just want to apostrophe that this framework, not only does it not represent a good basis, but it does not represent any basis that would protect Serbs and allow them to live as people and within the framework of human rights in Kosovo. As for conclusion 2, I do not insist on recommending Mr Hekerup to reconsider the possibility and see what he will do, but we must insist that this framework agreement be revised. Not to consider it, but to revise it in the spirit of Resolution 1244. The 6th conclusion said: "Before the elections of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija should require that civilians... "and so on. There's nothing to ask. The condition for Serbs to go to the elections should be that plan to get them back safely and how they live safely, and then go to the elections. In that light, Article 7, which says our authorities are working with UNMIK authorities, is almost unnecessary. Because if the conditions are provided for our own to return there, it is quite understandable that this should be done, as it is known that we should not use our bare hands to grab the naked electricity generators. As far as conclusion number 8, which says, "Second measures will be taken to achieve the functions of the competent state authorities in Kosovo and Metohija in the scope of taxes etc.". If the revision of this Framework Agreement is made on the basis of our remarks, it is who, what, customs etc. It should be resolved within the framework of this document, not beyond that. Finally, the competent state authorities will agree and define the organisation of the Federal Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. It's very general what the authorities are, what, when, how, etc. I would like to remind you that the task of the Assembly is not to say how, but to say what. How, it's a technique. How, it's being carried out by whoever's serving the Assembly, it's in this case government. The assembly says what they want. How, gentlemen of the government and the others who are in executive power, find a solution. It's not good to say now - you tell us how. If we say so now, then it means that we are doing your job, and business and jurisdiction are still divided. Then who needs a frame like this? It certainly needs the Shiptars, who have always wanted to have their own country. It is certainly necessary for those who are their mentors and who provide them with all these things, and they are called the international community ortites, read, the United States. One of the reasons is maybe that, we heard and read in the press, Bonsteel should be the largest American base on European soil. They haven't talked about it, and they haven't negotiated with anyone in this government. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: How do you know? According to what we know. So I haven't read that anyone from this government has said-- you can use that territory for it. Well, then we need someone else to give us legitimacy to agree with him on the use of that territory, and that's the only way he can do that if he can decide. Finally, today the speaker was told about what the current government is doing when it comes to helping Kosovo. We heard something from Mr. Veselinov. So it's just part of what's usually done, or this previous government did it. Not only that, but also free books and the provision of means of transport and the provision of medical assistance, etc. (President: Time. ) Therefore, no one reasonable will resent nor ask Mr Djindjic why, he said, 100,000 people live on the budget of this republic and this government. On the contrary, he will be resented if the intensity helps those people and those who remained in Kosovo is not at least at the level of the previous government. In the end, I would ask that we no longer use this pay phone to comment on what it was, laming with regard to some bad legacy. We're serious people. Those who came to power and who were chosen for it, I guess they knew or assumed what they could expect and had solutions for it. Gentlemen, in the future, we expect solutions, not to laminate what was and what was.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8183	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Batic, and after that, MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8184	It really isn't worth a comment over the past, but I'll just remind you, the truth is, when it comes to sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, gentlemen, I ask you once again to read Resolution 1244 carefully. She never mentions the Republic of Serbia in a single word. There is no significance from the Republic of Serbia in Resolution 1244. Not to remind myself of what I said was incorporated into it and part of the Rambuje Agreement, regardless of whether the SRJ or Serbia, or its representatives, did not sign it. So, I agree that this is a topic that should not be politicised, where no party interests should be dealt with, and where, as the SRJ president said at a meeting with representatives of the Serbs from Kosovo and the Artemia Metohija -- it is not worth constantly calling on the past, it is not worth the constant emphasis on differences and division. So there's a lot of difference and division from the past. We need unity in the future when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of party and party differences. We have an objectively constrained maneuvering space. But let us, in the spirit of best intentions, use it in terms of restoring sovereignty and integrity in Kosovo, no matter how small. Not by false spite, not by defiance, but by wisdom, mind, exchange, politics, diplomacy. What do I mean? It should insist on what is realistic and what is the obligation of the international community, which is the security, the return of the exiled, but not mere rhetoric, but to really see that the international community has made people return to Kosovo, to create their environment, to build their ruined houses, to repair the damaged, to create this elemental micro-climate, elemental infrastructure, and that people can really return to where they are being exiled. Only then will the international community show that both Resolution 1244 and all stories about multiethnic Kosovo are not a mere phrase, but rather an affirmation of the UN system. This is how you get into constant cohesion. We celebrate Resolution 1244, it is not ideal, and even it is not fulfilled. So we're looking for what we have the right, the security, the return of the exiled, the disclosure and the lighting of the fate of the missing, the kidnapped, the kidnapped. So this is what is minimum, with constant insistence on seeking a revision, whether we have the authority under Resolution 1244 or not, so reviewing the constitutional frameworks for Kosovo and normally that the government will accept any well-intentioned suggestion in these relations. So let's find a common denominator. Otherwise, we can deploy here for a week without any effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8185	Mr. President, you've injured Article 88(6). A Rules of Procedure which makes it clear that "the other members of the Government are given the floor by the President of the National Assembly when requested, and their presentation may take twice as long as the time specified to present the MPs". Even if you interpret it so widely that once a minister gives a word every time he asks for it, he can't go on more than twice as long as the time specified to present the MP. A gentleman from Galenika, who always represented Serbian enemies, represented Hans Hekerup's interests here, and had no right to receive his word. You really need to worry about whether MPs here have the right in the Assembly or ministers. In my opinion, only MPs have the right in this congregation. Our right is limited to 10 minutes, once we report, the Minister's right to 20 minutes and once to answer. Not every minister can come here whenever he thinks he's gonna get a word in. He can do it whenever he thinks of it, but only once and he can't speak twice as long as the time specified to present the MPs. If we are obliged to sum up our exposure in 10 minutes, the minister is obliged as smarter than we are, more valuable, I don't know, I'd find some attributes already, if he did it twice as long and almost, no more. The Prime Minister has the right to do so as any proposing, since we have been designated Prime Minister as a Proposer three times, and we will respect that right and respect the line, even though ministers here in this room do not have the right to replication. But just as much, Mr. President, that every day when we point out to you the violation of the Rules of Procedure by only one minister in this assembly, the one for whom neither 89 MPs wanted to vote to remain a minister, but only 88, I guess that's enough for you to have him here, when he comes and if he can come, he should sit low. Exactly half of DOS. That's his, uh, half the DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8186	That's what you on your Executive Board, at the Central State Administration, and as far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, we've discussed it at least six or seven times yesterday, or the day before yesterday, just after this thing. We really haven't been able to fix everything that you've ruined. This is the old Rules of Procedure and this has not been changed in the Rules of Procedure. We inherited this Rules of Procedure. We have already decided on this, and I will be forced to respect the letter of the Rules of Procedure as it says, and surely there will be a need for this working group that is formed, this part of the Rules of Procedure to be very well specified. It's really not accurate here, but I have to give a word whenever a member of the government asks, and I'm trying to contain that time for that time, and that's 20 minutes in total. Mr. Batic said three minutes and something. Double time is 20 minutes. It's going to be about that, if we're tolerance enough, especially when there's a theme like this on the agenda. The word has a folk MP Dragan Pavlovic, followed by MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8187	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Kosovo and Metohija doesn't give us the right to big speeches, big words, busting into the chest, collecting political points on something that, however, everyone agrees, is a national tragedy both in the present and in the future, a major problem of our country. It was easy once, it's easy to say today in Belgrade, Kosovo is ours, we don't give Kosovo, if citizens living in Kosovo can't say that Kosovo is theirs or if the citizens who live there now don't feel that way. In the context of the topic we are talking about today, it was in front of us Resolution 1244, which was most discussed. It's not enough to just say it's someone who doesn't carry out the Resolution at one point, you need to see what kind of problems there are. One of the problems, and I guess those who signed it should have taken care of it, is that it is somewhat contradictory. It is true that in one provision it says -- Serbia's sovereignty, but it is true that in the following points it has those provisions that violate that sovereignty. The practical situation is that we in the territory have limited sovereignty, that it is the result of the policy and the state that we had and that it is a framework within which it is possible to act. The legal framework provided for by this solution does not exclude the rights of Serbs in Kosovo. On the contrary, there are provisions that speak of them, there are guarantees and special procedures when the rights of ethnic communities are at stake. The problem, however, is that there are bad experiences, which is not enough trust and the problem is that we do not believe that these are sufficient guarantees that these rights will be achieved and will be respected. Also, the first return to Kosovo is said to be a matter of a certain decision. You know, it's a decision to make - tomorrow's return. I attended a very brutal return attempt when after the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement a column of refugees, Serbs from Kosovo, attempts from Belgrade, attempted by the former authorities to violently return those people. I attended that drama, that disappointment of people in their country of origin. I attended the statements of people who said they were forced to drive Albanians out of their homes, that there was no way they could go back there and that's the problem of coming back. So, first of all, do all people want to come back? I don't want to kill hope for those who have emotions and who want to. A lot of people don't want to come back. Is it important, and surely it is important to protect the property of people, damaged, intact, their rights on this basis. Every problem should be individualized, for all evasive faces should be resolved individually and, of course, to all those who want to do everything to return, but let's not talk about any mass returns, because I doubt there's even a mood so much. When I asked a citizen, our Serb from Kosovo, why he left Kosovo, he told me, you know, when we get on the bus and we don't hear our language, I have a problem and I've decided to change the environment. We cannot forcefully change the unfavourable ethnic composition in Kosovo. We also had without KFOR and without UNMIK the situation in Kosovo that there were Serbs in the institutions, and that there was parallel government, parallel state, parallel hospitals. It was an illusion that lasted for years and provided nothing, although we were in fact sitting in government institutions. On the contrary, it has led to an even greater conflict. One of the important things is the conflict resolution mechanism, and there have been many times here to say if one of the important things is that conflict is resolved with the relevant forces in the conflict. I appreciate the position of all national communities, Egyptians, but they are not relevant and cannot significantly affect the position of Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo. The other thing is political morality. Whether the conflict is used for political dealings with the internal enemy or the political inexperiences, and thus becomes an even bigger problem, but another goal is achieved, and that is the goal of the elite in power. Another illusion, which I think we need to get rid of, which is the right of any party to have exclusiveness in representing national interests. You know, it automatically implies, analoguely, that political opponents are enemies. We've had this situation. National interest can't be something monopolies and I think that, especially when it's breaking moments, it's the widest possible consensus, not the right that we can say, that political opponents disqualify, as we've ever had before. Finally, I think we were the hostages of a national-socialist programme, which is basically based on the establishment of absolute authority, primarily relying on the manipulation of national feelings and on those ethnic territories in Serbia, in the former Yugoslavia, which were mixed. By moving conflict from one territory to another, not to list, therefore, more and more authorities have been strengthened, and the country has failed economically and nationalally, and if it was October 5th, the causes should be sought in such a policy. I think that one of the changes that citizens expect is that the new government -- and here a diplomatic initiative has been mentioned to specify obligations and the state, and the international community to remove ambiguity -- should go in this direction, not to bullying, not to count crime or to count whether criminals should be prosecuted or those who reveal crimes should be prosecuted. You know, according to international law, and by law, and by Orthodox faith, we cannot exercise our rights through crime, and the discovery of crime is not a waste of money on the military or on the people, but rather a detour from the people and the military. And if that's what individuals from the top of the state took part in, then that's their problem, and that can't be the reason for pushing under the rug something that is a danger to collective guilt and to what's happening to us. Finally, the only measurable criterion of one government's success is the results of those who are consumers of that government, which are citizens in this relationship. Enough politics -- one state, one nation, one man, two parties, one that is in power, and the other that is only a partner in supporting the government, and the entire multiparty system consists of fighting for the second place. I think we got out of that phase and we're going to get into a better period.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8188	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejic, and the next reported for discussion is MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of speaking to the Minister today, nor was I going to speak to the Prime Minister, I wanted to talk about the horns, the horns in the bag that were put in that bag 150 days ago, and when I told the Prime Minister that they were going to have big problems because of these horns. Here, today's proposal for a conclusion just confirms that it is the horns in the bag, because this is how the proposal for a conclusion is made before us by the MPs, today being asked to discuss in one tolerance, unbiasedly, a very important problem that has been encountered by the Serbian people and our country. We, the Serbian radicals, have seen this problem as our national problem. However, the government does not seem to have reached a consensus on national interest. This national interest, which is largely called upon by all DOS representatives for this speaker, only declares and represents, or as some actors, players and patriots. At the same time, everything they do and what they say later in their presentations, says exactly the opposite of what they stand for. The constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija is the response to the resolution of the MPs, these here, which we brought on May 5th. That response by Hans Heckerup is the answer of the American administration, and no matter how it's spoken here today, it's going to challenge me in a milder or stricter tone of this constitutional framework, it's going to be brought in. That's what the prime minister said in a certain way in his presentation. But we would have to say that there are certain methods and measures that would, however, hesitate the international community a little bit, if we were to stand up in one not-so-substantial way, not in this kind of a broom way, and what's a broom way, best known by the Minister of Agriculture who's not here right now, who immediately took advantage of the opportunity to find his interest in a confusing conclusion like this. His interest is just being looked at in what he believes, if the Ship's terrorists can cut the forest, if he's in charge of his ministry as a resolute minister, why can't he go with his separatists in Vojvodina tomorrow to ask that he only cuts the wheat and puts that wheat in his pockets. Thus, such confusion as is expected by the government of the Republic of Serbia has been welcomed by individual members of the government who immediately looked at their interest, both in northern Serbia and in southern Serbia. Today, when we talk about the problem of Kosovo and Metohija and the conclusions made by the government, we need to talk about the quality of these conclusions and what these conclusions can possibly contribute to improve the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. And, we must agree, that little can be done now in a concrete case and in improving the conditions of life of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, and in particular we cannot expect a near return of Serbs, because through the proposals of constitutional frameworks for temporary self-government, Kosovo and Metohija are predicted to be multiethnic police, composed mainly of Shipar. So, from those who were terrorists by yesterday, they changed into Serbian clothes and they should now be guarding Serbian heads and Serb homes. It is certainly no guarantee to those Serbs who have decided to return or who have stayed on their hearths. That is why the constitutional framework is not good at all, but it cannot be so kindly and condescendingly addressed to the author of this constitutional framework. In conclusion, of course, it should be written first of all about those points (and there are 9, I find none acceptable) in which almost no mention of the rights of Serbs in Kosovo is mentioned, and the government was aware when it wrote this conclusion. They have to be redefined, they have to be written, somehow the DOS majority would write it, but just as it would really condition the administrators in America to complete their hellish plan that they started. So it's not applying Security Council Resolution 1244. It's not enough to say in Article 3. - the authorities and representatives of the international community are required to have strict respect for Security Council Resolution, but should be required from the international community and sanctions for those who do not apply Resolution 1244. Just as sanctions are required with Serbs, it should also be required to apply the same sanctions and against those who have signed that resolution, and that, if they do not respect it themselves, appropriate penalties. Therefore, the UN should be asked to withdraw immediately, if it is Hans Hekerup and does not apply Resolution 1244, as a UN special envoy, and if he has done so voluntarily, to be sent to The Hague and to be responsible for the crimes that he has already done to the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. And not only Hans Hekerup, he's just an extended arm of the American administration, and I'm afraid the extended arm of the American administration doesn't sit in these front rows. So if we look at all of these points of conclusion, then we can almost be convinced that this is how one confusing and unspeakable suggestion of conclusions speaks in favor of what I said, that the extended hand is actually all those who have drawn these conclusions. Immediately, at the very beginning of today's session, the President of the Assembly said -- here, we have one conclusion, which should be changed to almost half of the points that are ahead of us. And then the question arises -- did the Government of the Republic of Serbia even consider this conclusion and who wrote this conclusion in the first place? I think that this conclusion was written personally by Hans Hekerup, and for this reason today I believe that the MPs, primarily the SRS, are quite justifiably, impartially, unpolitically colored, speak of the general national Serb interest, which should be the interest of all MPs sitting in the Serbian parliament. However, given the lack of knowledge of matter and that they are politically trying to resist a more radical conclusion, which would not be called a conclusion, but a resolution, which would ask the international community to respect first of all Resolution 1244, that it will not do so because they expect the state to disperse, because the US administration has well mastered Serbian history, and they know, they have heard of Aganlia, Mulu Jusufa, Kucuk Ali, Hocic Mehmed Agu. And now, when this country falls apart, some ministers want to replace these knights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8190	There is a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian government's proposal for constitutional frameworks for Kosovo and Metohija, a speech by Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic on the occasion of and a speech by ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia could be characterised by three words -- sly, condescending and irresponsible. At least, irresponsible from the point of view of state and national interest. In the discussion so far, we had a proposal from two political groups in this assembly to fix the draft conclusions on the Hekerup Constitution for Kosovo and Metohija in several points. The first proposal was made by Mr Branislav Ivkovic, in front of the SPS parliamentary group. The proposed repairs on his part are purely cosmetic and can be characterised as pure demagogy by an opposition political party. His proposal is such that nothing fundamentally changes, and the motive is to show Serbian citizens alleged concern for the state and defend the failed policy of the party towards Kosovo and Metohija in the previous period. The second proposal to amend the conclusions, which the Government delivered to us, came from the Martian People's MP, and on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group. And I would consider these proposed repairs to be pure cosmetics. If what Ivkovic suggested is opposition demagogy, what he suggested is a top state demagogy, in the manner of his party boss and Yugoslav President, Mr Kostunica. Kostunica's been showing us this every day for eight months. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the relationship between the previous regimes towards Kosovo and Metohija (when I say - previous regimes, I mean that King Alexander, that Titot and finally Milosevic's regime) is such that we did not have any thought-out, long-term and state strategy on perhaps the most important national and state issue. In solving this problem, Serbs often hampered historical international circumstances, often hindered us by ideological reasons, and very often they were purely party interests, so characteristic of the era of Slobodan Milosevic, for example. The banal reason - the theft of votes. However, all these transitional regimes cannot dispute attempts, including results in the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, as the roots of Serbia and the Serb people, as an integral part of the rest of Serbia. Remember, we lost Kosovo and Metohija at the time of the Ottoman invasion, so we returned it, we lost Kosovo and Metohija during World War I, so we returned it, and in the end, we lost Kosovo and Metohija during World War II, so we returned it. Reoccupier in Kosovo and Metohija, again the sacred Serbian country is not part of the queen. But this time we are in danger of permanently losing Kosovo and Metohija. The so-called "Serbs" came to power in Serbia. The pro-Western and possibly most cooperative government versus America and Western forces. Such a slight reaction to the Hekerup constitution of Kosovo, Covic's statements on Kosovo and Ceda Jovanovic's division of some cantonisation of Kosovo and Metohija, smell like the final historical capitulation of Serbs. Gentlemen of the DOS, I must warn you - you mandated ancestors, the mandate of the people and the mandate of the descendants did not get it. America and Hackerup can bring this constitution. They can implement it, they can choose the president of Kosovo, the government, a gift as a means of payment, they can do anything at this time. This assembly can and must today tell America and the international community, gentlemen we do not accept or acknowledge. That's extremely significant. With this government's proposal, even with these improvements, Mr. Ivkovic and the Martians, we accept and acknowledge it voluntarily. We've historically lost Kosovo and Metohija. Our generation simply must leave the possibility and chance for our descendants to return Kosovo and Metohija to the queenship. I hope we do so in a very short time and hope to make it a peaceful and diplomatic way. It seems to me that the Prime Minister has just said that no matter what conclusion we have here to draw, it will not make Serbia and Yugoslavia worse. What are we talking about with the international community? If it does not make Serbia's position worse, could it not stand in this conclusion instead of, for example? document point 1, the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija does not constitute a good legal basis for the protection of freedom and the rights of Serbs. We can say that the Serbian Parliament does not accept the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija for known reasons. Or at point 6, we can say, the Serbian Parliament urges Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to boycott the elections until security is guaranteed for all citizens, clarifys the fate of the kidnapped and missing and enables the return of the exiles. We can do it and we have to do it. Where's the incantation? And particularly in the context of Prime Minister Djindjic's statement that it will not make the position of the Republic of Serbia difficult. That would be a serious state response to that constitution. Probably these conclusions, according to Prime Minister Djindjic, in this form they would not accept, but we as a state would not willingly accept the capitulation. Such an answer would be our deed in Kosovo and Metohija. I repeat, one such answer would be our deed to Kosovo and Metohija. Be assured, and I now address all citizens of Serbia, that we will return Kosovo and Metohija to the queen. I'm sure we'll get her back to the queen. I don't know when, probably when it allows historical circumstances, but we'll get it back. I can't vote for such capitulant conclusions and I won't vote. I can't do it because of ancestors and descendants, I can't do it because of all the fallen heroes for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, I can't do it because of the 30,000 reservers from the Royals, Vrnjačka Banja and Raška, who in Kosovo and Metohija defended this country from NATO villains and who, in fact, did not lose a millimeter of state territory. I can't do it because of our people who stayed in Kosovo and Metohija and, in the end, I can't do it because I'm a Serbian radical. In the end, Mrs. Kolundzija, this is definitely neither a pirate's evening nor a literary section, and if you had listened more to the geese in your life, it would certainly not belong to Covic's party and would not have talked about Kosovo and Metohija like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8192	Now I'm going to replicate a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8193	Replica, the word has a People's MP, Dragan Marsicani.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8194	This is gonna take a little while, but I have to do it for the microphone. There's really too much demagogy in this assembly room. That's not why I'd look back. Everyone has the right to mark and qualify as a demagogue. However, when demagogy, which is very common and everyday, grows to something much uglier than that, and that is an absolute immoral assessment of its fellow MPs, it is something to answer to. The subject is the following, therefore, all that I have put forward as a proposal to repair the proposed document, my colleague marked demagogue, and then quoted as an SRS position. It's good when the SRS learns from the DSS, because if it works out, it can become a serious party. It's extremely immoral when someone for the same thing you quoted, and compare the stenographic notes, all the things you called demagogy repeat as your own attitude. In his view, it is necessary to assess the temporary framework as unacceptable and to bring the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to a declaration in which it will say clearly and loudly not to accept the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo, which I said, I am staying and I will try to make the working group accept that position. You know very well, and you tried to deceive not so many MPs who heard it, as much as the public who may not have heard when I answered for the word this morning. (Employer Seselj asks for a word. [[Applause]] ) On behalf of the MPs' group? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8196	Mr. Martian, there are some things you need to explain here. I'm not sure I understood you very well. You said the SRS should learn from the DSS. Does this mean that we, the Serbian radicals, should learn how to join a coalition with Zoran Djindjic, how to join the coalition with Zarko Koraic, how to join the coalition with Dusan Mihajlovic, how to join the coalition with Nebojsa Covic, how to join the coalition with Jožef Kasa, how to join the coalition with Vladan Batic, how to join the coalition with Nenad Canka, how to join the coalition with Goran Svilanovic... (President: Don't go to the list. )......................................................................................................... How do we join the coalition with Gaš Knezevic, how do we join the coalition with Rasim Ljajic, how do we join the coalition with Dragan Veselinov, how do we join the coalition with whom more (Glasses from the Hall: With Mira Markovic), what is your name again, Isaac?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8197	Let him remember everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8198	Well, I can't remember all of you, I know there are 18 of you and what Vladan Batic, who is president of the DHSS, and his honorary president is a famous Satanist, Santologist Milan Panic, so it's no coincidence that you chose number 18. 18 coalition partners, because three sixes you multiplied or added there. It's no accident what you did, but don't ask us to learn from you. You know, I appreciate Vladan Batic, I appreciate him so much because I'm as fascinated as he hates Croats. For Vladan Batic, as president of DHSS, Croats are God's punishment, the greatest evil. If we are to learn from Batic, if it is DOS policy, and I would accept it, but with all these 17-18 to join the coalition and to crush Serbia, we cannot do so. You know, we were in a shorter period of history in a coalition with leftist parties (communication in the hall), only when leftist parties were ready to defend Serbian countries, if they defended the Serbian Krajina or Republika Srpska, or if they defended Kosovo etc. Then when leftist parties led pro-Western politics, they were with many of you in the coalition. Not to mention Dusan Mihajlovic, not to mention many other prominent DOS sizes, Nebojsa Covica etc. Who needs to learn from who here. You DOS should learn from Serbian radicals. You can tell us anything that comes to mind, but our morale and our ideological purity (galls in the O.R.), you can never question. (Applause by the Serbian Radical Party MPs.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8199	There is a word from MP Predrag Mijailovic, and after that, MP Predrag Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8200	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the problem of Kosovo and Metohija is not since yesterday. That problem is complex and serious. Any problem can only be solved if it is approached with facts. First of all, if we approach every problem seriously, then first we need to know what the causes of this problem are. Then, we need to know the course of these problems, and ultimately, the consequences of solving this problem. The causes of this Kosovo problem are far-reaching, but some people in our history and culture, science, have dealt with the problem. I will provide some information from these people that we all need to study in order to know properly how to talk about the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. According to Professor Popovic's book "Kosovo - an icon of Serbia", as well as books and scientific works by academics Bogdanovic and Professor Batakovic -- this is the next fact, which caused us to get into the situation that we are in Kosovo and Metohija today -- the fact is that from 1941 to 1945, fascist occupation forces expelled 350,000 Serbs, while at the same time emigrating 450,000 Shiptara to their properties. The fact is that since 1945 the communist regime has not allowed the return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija to its properties, while at the same time it did not banish the Kosovo and Metohija occupier, who occupied Serbian and state properties. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is important when we first have ethnic imbalances in Kosovo and Metohija and now the Shipari take it as the first and most basic asset in seeking an independent state. The communist system nationalized church estates and allowed the occupationr to settle on these properties, and it is here today. Under communist rule, from 1945 to 80 years of national terror, a large number of Serbs were evicted, and at the same time without any control, the Arbanas, who today have no citizenship of Serbia or Yugoslavia, were emigrated to their estates. According to the author's data, Popovica in his book, an eclatic example is the municipality of Podujevo, which had 86% of Serbs in 1966, so that in 1989 the number of Serb population would fall below 1% and in the city 0.6%. The church and church estates were destroyed, in the last century about 1,000 saints were destroyed. According to the 1999 author's data, in a catastro in Serbian possession and possession of state property as well as church property, about 70% of the country's population is occupied. It is irrefutable that Kosovo has been occupied since 1941 and to this day with the Arbanas. These are facts that no one can escape from. The facts are that this problem was not solved on purpose. Unfortunately, we get Resolution 1244, which guarantees the international community the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We now have a constitutional framework adopted by the representatives of the United Nations, which is contrary to Resolution 1244. What's the opposite? According to Resolution 1244, it is impossible for a special constitution to exist, a constitutional court, a national bank, an army. These are all attributes of an independent state. That I don't list other attributes. Now we're coming to solve the problem. I would not like to repeat what MP Marko Jaksic, MP of the DOS, vice president of the DSS, said here I fully agree. But I think we should start solving the opposite of how the previous government, or the government of national unity, handled it. We must present to the international community facts, which I have already stated, that Kosovo and Metohija live a large number of Cypriots who have no citizenship, who illegally entered Kosovo and Metohija and literally occupied it, especially in the period since the arrival of the United Nations and in the previous periods that I have stated. In this regard, we propose a list of residents with all the standards of the United Nations (a resident of one state, if he is primarily a national of that state), the property may be owned if that property is entered in the state institutions designated for that purpose by international rules, standards and laws. The international community must allow the return of all evicted Serbs, particularly Serbs who moved out in 1998. The evicted Serbs from 1941 to 1945, and in a later period, to return property, as well as those emigrated in a later period during the communist system. The church to return the property. Only then can an ethnic factor be taken as one of the arguments to address Kosovo and Metohija's problems, which are constantly strained by Albanians. Then an ethnic factor, which would affect, as an argument, would be greatly strengthened with previous arguments. We must also seek a solution at the same time through the reciprocity of rights for the national Serb minority in Albania. At that time, Albanians in Serbia can have the same rights as our Serbs who, around Skadra, in 19 ethnically clean villages, have no ethnic rights, nor national rights, even in their national name and name. I know that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija must be resolved patiently, with the international community, and at the same time we cannot allow us, as a state and as a people, to face this international community with all arguments. We ask our Government to present all these arguments, and we here in Serbia can only make ourselves unique and compact about this problem. First, to denationalise church property and all other confesions in the whole country of Serbia, thus also in Kosovo and Metohija. We must say that for us, in Serbia, both for the government and for the entire Serbian people, the constitutional framework proposed by the United Nations is not acceptable, so we ask that we strictly respect Resolution 1244. (President: Time. ) After that, we must patiently and slowly try to change Resolution 1244, i.e. the Kuman Agreement, for our benefit, as we did in the area of southern Serbia, i.e. when entering the demilitarised area in southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8201	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, followed by MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, constitutionally blamed by Special Representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations Hans Hekerup is an act that Mr. Hekerup brings, and not having any authority to do so. On point 5. Anexa 2. Security Council Resolutions 1244 of these acts can only be brought by the Security Council of the United Nations. What does point 5 predict? Anexa 2. Security Council Resolution 1244? I quote: "The establishment of a temporary administration for Kosovo as part of an international civilian presence under which the people of Kosovo will be able to enjoy essential autonomy within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which will be decided by the Security Council of the United Nations." Therefore, the interim administration should ensure a transitional administration and in this respect establish and monitor the development of temporary democratic self-government institutions to ensure conditions for the peaceful and normal life of all Kosovo residents. Under this provision, Mr. Hans Hekerup has no authority to bring the Constitutional Framework to temporary administration in Kosovo and Metohija. The constitutional framework provides that the future congregation adopts the constitution and laws, that it has a supreme court and second. This, however, cannot be done because in United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, there is no word about it, that such a assembly can be established to pass laws. The Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations is only a d m i n i s t r a c but not the legislator. If this is accepted and allowed, I must point out that in this case Kosovo will be a sovereign state, that Kosovo's citizens will have citizenship, which is again contrary to the provisions of Security Council Resolution 1244. Because in the same place, it is said that Kosovo and Metohija are under the sovereignty of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so in one territory there cannot be two sovereigntys, as provided for in point 5. Anexa 2. Resolutions 1244, then point 10. Security Council Resolutions and Annex 1st point 6. What does point 6 predict? Anexa One. Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, which is in my hand. I quote: "The political process towards establishing an agreement on a temporary political framework, which will ensure the essential self-government of Kosovo, taking full account of the Rambuje agreements and the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and other countries in the region and the demilitarisation of the KLA" -- completed the quote. So from this provision point 6. Anexa One. Resolution 1244 makes it clear that Mr Hans Hekerup does not have the authority to become chief legislator in Kosovo and Metohija, but is an administrator and only has the right to adopt regulations, decisions and instructions, as provided for by administrative law in the administrative procedure. Until the final solution to Kosovo's status and Metohija, the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative can only organise a civilian administration and nothing else, which means it can establish temporary authorities of the administration that have no right to pass laws or to adopt a constitution. UN Secretary-General Hans Hekerup's special envoy in the most harsh way exceeds his powers, and does not execute what was given to him as an obligation, to ensure the return of Serbs who were exiled from their hearths by Cypriot terrorists, to guarantee their survival, to suppress the violence that still takes place today, as foreseen and to what the Security Council Resolution obliges him to do. What does Security Council Resolution 1244 predict in Section 4? I quote: "Being in mind the principles and objectives of the United Nations Charter, including the primary responsibility of the Security Council for the preservation of international peace and security, determined to resolve the serious humanitarian situation in Kosovo in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and ensure the safe and free return of all refugees and displaced persons to their homes" -- finished the quote. So again we see that Kosovo and Metohija remain in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. What Anx 2 predicts. Resolution 1244 in point 2? I quote: "The agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian personnel will be allowed to return to Kosovo and Metohija to perform certain tasks and functions." So, there's no mention of Serbia anywhere. So, Serbia-Yugoslavija is also mentioned, and anyone who wanted to interpret incorrectly, should read correctly and present to the MPs and the public that Security Council Resolution predicted both the presence of Serbs and Serbian authorities in Kosovo and Metohija, and the Yugoslav. The UN Secretary-General's special representative is obliged to regularly submit reports on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija to the Security Council and to the UN Secretary-General at least once a month. However, there have been no such reports for the past two years. The constitutional framework is full of beautiful phrases, but these are tailored by the hats of Kosovo and Metohija, contrary to that sweetness. How is the President of Kosovo, who is to represent Kosovo and abroad, and also in the United Nations, being elected, to what is this constitutional framework run? How is this again so that the referendum can change the borders of Kosovo and Metohija, so the accession of Kosovo and Metohija to Albania. The Security Council Resolution 1244, however, does not foresee this either, as this resolution envisions Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and under the sovereignty of Yugoslavia. Secretary-General Hans Hekerup's special representative has not called for any provision of Security Council Resolution 1244 on the basis of which he would have the authority to adopt a constitutional framework or constitution for Kosovo and Metohija. It's not there, because it's not in Resolution. It violates both Resolution and exceeds its powers. The constitutional framework expresses the right community, including Serbians, to their lives. That is what Resolution 1244 envisions, which only predicts Serbs and other non-Albanian populations to live peacefully in Kosovo and Metohija, but nothing has been achieved so far. That's how this constitution will go, and what if those beautiful desires don't come true, which, in my opinion, they won't. Is Mr. Hackerup going to hang himself or at least admit he was wrong? He won't. He's not working on it. He works to create a state of Kosovo and Metohija and separate Serbia's territory, wants sovereignty and to give the state to the Shyptarian terrorists. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you that in 1921 in Kosovo and Metohija there were a total of 160,000 Shiparas, so today someone should give these Shiptars Serbian territory and the Shiptars a country that they will give to Albania after a short period of time. I own a universal atlas, which no one in Yugoslavia wrote, was written in 1921 in Austria, in the city of Vienna. It has credible data, is not forgeries, and no one can dispute this fact that everything in Cyprus was in Kosovo in 1921, 160,000. Three years, following us, will be recorded in history as the year of the twilight of international law. This twilight of rights, caused by the twilight of conscience and the morale of all those who were obliged to protect it, has caused the Serbian people enormous destruction and terrible suffering, but has neither broken nor will they ever be able to break the patriotism and unity of the Serbian people. It is now clear to every well-intentioned man in the world that in the aggression of NATO forces in Yugoslavia, officials of aggression committed serious crimes, genocide and violations of the Geneva Convention, then violations of the laws and customs of war and crimes against humanity. Events in Kosovo and Metohija have undoubtedly shown that our country's criminal aggression for brutality and consequences was unremembered even during Hitler's fascism, and was aimed at achieving the strategic interests of the United States in the Balkans and beyond, which among other things is best talked about building a military base of Bondsteel near Urosevic. The Security Council Resolution 1244 of the UN, namely the Security Council, has assumed a special responsibility to ensure the full security of all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, creates conditions for the continuation of the political process and negotiations on autonomy based on respect for the full equality of all citizens and national communities in Kosovo and Metohija, within the framework of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ. However, the former functioning of the UN Mission in Kosovo and Metohija, the non-implementation and rude violation of the Security Council resolution, is a disgrace to the international community and an unremembered accident and the loss of the Serb people and the rest of the non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija. Under the protection of the UN Serb Mission in Kosovo and Metohija, the world's most enraged people. Their rights to life, property rights, labour rights, the right to freedom of movement, the right to defend by SRJ lawyers before courts in Kosovo and Metohija and other bodies, as well as any other rights guaranteed by the General Declaration on Human Rights, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The consequences of the same are the continuation of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija, terrible crimes committed against Serbs, mass crime, violence and ethnic cleansing of Serbs and other non-Albanian populations, under the auspices and tolerance of the international community's forces. The genocide of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija is undoubtedly the criminal responsibility of UNMIK and KFOR. UN Secretary-General Special Representatives, formerly Kouchner, now Hekerup has voluntarily declared himself an absolute ruler. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw attention and point out that the situation in Kosovo and Metohija has not been dating back for 10 years. This condition dates back considerably longer. A crime of genocide against Serb people has been committed in the southern Serbian province, Kosovo and Metohija for a long time. The ethnic structure of the population in Kosovo and Metohija was disrupted after the Kosovo Battle of 1389, the fall of Serbia under Turkish rule in 1459, the Serbian elite was brutally destroyed, Serb monasteries and churches were destroyed, the Islamisation of Orthodox Serbs by Turks and Serbian villages lived after the August wars in 1690 and 1737, when around 200,000 Serbs moved out. About 37,000 family cooperatives moved to Hungary. The ethnic cleansing of Serbs was particularly done after the establishment of the Albanian League in Prizren in 1878. After a large exodus of Serbs from Kosovo, the Arab escapes to abandoned Serb estates were inhabited by Arbanase, Catholics, so-called. Fande, who become the main bearers of the Austrian-Hungarian politics among residents of Muslim religion. In her imperial aspirations in this area in the 19th and early 20th centuries, Austria-Hungarians supported the breakthrough of Albanians in Stara Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8203	Mr. Jojiæ, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8204	On the day of the Kingdom of Serbia's declaration, on February 22nd, 1882, a cease-fire was established in Pristina, which expelled all national champions, signatories of petitions to the Berlin Congress, princes and farmers. The execution of the executions of the infamous Ibrahim was at the time of the slaughter of 7,000 Serbs in one day. That was also written by Consul Branislav Nusic, then Serbian Consul Milan Rakic. That is why Serbian radicals propose to this parliament that this conclusion and this constitutional framework are not accepted. If accepted, it will be the greatest shame of this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-30-0.u8205	Mr. Blazic stays for tomorrow. I'd like to ask the MPs first, and we'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock, and we'll begin in time for tomorrow's session. We've got a lot of reports and we're gonna try to make a deal with the parliamentary groups that, if we can, tomorrow's session and we're done. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 128 MPs attend today's session. Please confirm the quorum. I find there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Miodrag Stamenković, Dusan Petkovic, Dusan Budišin, Dragoljub Vojnović, Dragan Šormaz, Milan Radulović, Ljubomir Mucic, Ljubvoje Slavković, Branislav Grubački, Zoran Bošković, Istvan Išpanovic, Karolj Kermeci, Anton Biaci, Vladan Jovicic and Veselin Janković. Just before noon: Dusan Ilic and Neda Arneric. The delay was announced by Milutin Svetovic, Dragan Jocic, Jon Cismash and Cedomir Jovanovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE "GOVERNMENTAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE COURT OF THE COSES AND METOHY" (addition) Before I give the word to the MP Branislav Blažić, I would like to inform you that we will meet at the break in the hall on the second floor, i.e. that the working group will meet to make up the text of the declaration, resolution or conclusions, as we agree that the document is called. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
