ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9581	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, we have allowed ourselves to complete yesterday's session in a way that is not suitable for serious people and MPs, simply without the order of the chairman, a good part of the MPs, and especially on my left, has allowed himself to rise and not allow himself to reply to those who had the right to do so, given Mr Djelic's presentation. At the same time, the MP objected to the chairman's failure to warn Minister Djelic who allowed himself to say things that were not appropriate to one intellectual and member of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The chairman replied, Mrs Natasa Micic, that there is no parliamentary space to give notices to a member of the government. I shall advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure in this regard, Article 106, which states that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on order at the session of the National Assembly shall apply to all other participants in the sitting, in addition to the Members of Parliament, and shall be applied accordingly to the meetings of the Committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. So, according to article 106. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, the chairman, regardless of what a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, absolutely had the right and obligation, which is why I am advertising the violation of this Rules of Procedure to remind the Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I will not use the right to reply because I still have enough time to say that the way Minister Djelic spoke is only about the man who is and how he became aware of the legal project he defends is missing, and how he does not meet the essential idea at all. He became aware that it was purely political marketing, a political check of political similarities, a political programme and revenge for those who had previously exercised power. I repeat, the SPS absolutely supports the adoption of one of these laws, but complete and complete, and it became clear after two days of discussion, every citizen who has the opportunity to listen to this transmission because in the media, in information shows and it cannot, absolutely not cover four-fifths of the space possible...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9582	Mr. Ivkovic, you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure right now because you used your notice to discuss the law, and you have the right to be president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9583	I, Mrs. Micic, have the right to a replica, look at the presentation of Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9584	You have no right, I've looked at the stenographic notes. Mr. Ivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9585	I understand your double standards towards us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9586	Mr. Ivkovic, you have no right to reply, I have looked at the stenographic notes and you are not offended at all. On the basis of Article 96(3), I do not allow replication rights. As for your objection to Article 106, you missed the same subject. Mr. Seselj advertised the violation of article 101 and asked me why I didn't give the notice to Mr. Secretary, and I said I didn't see the grounds for warning first, and secondly, that according to article 101, the warning can only be given to the MP. Are you satisfied with my answer? There is another one before you, Pelevic reported in the Rules of Procedure, i.e.... You don't have the right to speak, we're not going to take it out on Mr. Ivkovic, why the replica on me? I was just giving an explanation. Here you are, Mr. Markovic, are you the same in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9587	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I suggest that tomorrow is not a matter, tomorrow the Federal Assembly decides on the future of the SRJ, and we know that someone wants to break the Constitution and that what is by law, is being debated in the Federal Assembly and transferred to the Republic Assembly. That's what citizens need to follow directly on the second program. I suggest we don't work tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9588	Mr. Markovic, do you want me to put your proposal to the vote? Okay, I'll put it to a vote. I have to finish the last one. I didn't give you my word at all, Mr. Seselj. I'm sorry, Mr. Seselj, I didn't say I had to put the motion to a vote. I would like to put Mr. Markovic's motion on vote that the National Assembly is not working tomorrow, on 21 June, because of the work of the Federal Assembly. For 58, against 100, two of the 169 MPs were detained. I find that Mr Markovic's proposal has not been accepted, to make tomorrow an unworkable day. Here you go, Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9589	You've broken the Rules of Procedure twice. Here, you now announce the results of the vote, you say 58 for, 100 against, two abstentions, and a total of 168. Where did you learn math, what does that mean? That's what you just said. I listen to what you're saying. In the future, and when you give me your word with your hand, I will not react until you speak my name and name, because you just gave me your word, and you brought me back from the pay phone. Next, you called me yourself, otherwise I wouldn't answer for a word, because it wasn't your first time, so you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. This morning you insist that the minister is not referred to as the other MPs. Why don't you read the Rules of Procedure? In Article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure shall also apply to all other participants in the sitting, in addition to the MPs, and shall be applied accordingly to the meetings of the committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. Therefore, all who take part in the meetings of the National Assembly shall be subject to the same provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which concern the session, which shall be subject to the MPs. You need to read the entire Rules of Procedure, and then try to interpret it, not by heart, that you're giving your statements and your thoughts on the subject and you're telling me I'm wrong. It's not me you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, it's me you're saying I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9590	You're wrong, Mr. Seselj, I'm sorry. I also read article 106. The truth is, you've read it, so the provisions of this Rules of Procedure refer to the order of the session, to all the participants. But you have a special member of 101. All you asked for was a warning, so the reminder can only be given to the People's Messengers. So, Mr. Secretary, I could, according to the provisions to maintain order, warn of time overruns, but I can't give him a warning, especially because there was no basis for that. Let's get back to work. I have another explanation. Maybe you weren't there. Your colleague Tomislav Nikolic asked me not to read as much as I didn't vote, and that's why I didn't read it, but I'm going to read it today because of my stenogram. It's a mistake in the Rules of Procedure, Article 109. Let me explain. According to the Rules of Procedure of Rule 109, which was advertised by Mr Nikolic, he was right, because it is indeed a mistake in the Rules of Procedure: MPs vote "for" the proposal, "against" the proposal or abstain from voting. So there are no MPs who have not voted. But that's why we have a Article 112 that says in Section 4: a decision is considered to be made, if it was voted by more than half of the identified MPs, i.e. by the Constitution, most of them, which means that there are MPs who have not been identified, i.e. who have not voted, and I will read and so from now on, although yesterday I wanted to please Mr Nikolic. I think you're satisfied. (Mr. Seselj asks for a word in his Rules of Procedure)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9591	You're constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure. First you say there's a mistake in the Rules of Procedure. Imagine a judge who interprets the law to give a verdict, who says it's a mistake in law, so I don't want it to be legal, but how I think it should be. Well, that's how you interpret the Rules of Procedure, and I assume you're a lawyer by education. And secondly, you say by Article 102. It shall relate to Members, as if Article 102, which precedes Article 106, excludes what is added in Article 106. Article 106 states that all matters relating to MPs in Article 102 apply to others, who attend meetings of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9592	Mr. Seselj, we've discussed that question. You've reached out to the same member, you have no right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. All you can ask is to put it to a vote, unless you're satisfied with my answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9593	You are constantly giving away the more wrong interpretations of the Rules of Procedure. Of course you'll put it to a vote, because I want it to stay and it's written down that DOS majority has confirmed your violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9594	I'm putting Mr. Seselj's proposal to vote that he's a injured member of 106. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. Articles 109 and 112 are in collegiate. In Article 109, it was left out to say that MPs could not give themselves up and not vote at all. For 52, against 112, the three abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 174 MPs. I find that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 106. By the way, I missed seven seconds of explaining to you, time to vote. (Mr. Seselj asks for a word by the Rules of Procedure, under Articles 109 and 112) You have no right to advertise. That's what we explained, Articles 112 and 109. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: I have not reported by this member before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9595	You violated the Rules of Procedure because you incorrectly declared to the National Assembly that there was colitision between members 109 and Article 112, paragraph 4. There's no collapsing. Article 109 reads: National MPs vote "for" a proposal, "against" the proposal or refrain from voting. And Article 112, paragraph 4, reads: The decision is considered to be made if it was voted by more than half of the MPs identified, i.e. the Constitution provides for a majority. For you, the MPs of the people have been identified only those who voted in favour at that time, against or withheld. Those who didn't press the key at all are considered not present in the hall, are not identified at that time, and perhaps even the other cards, as often happens to you, DOS when you need to collect artificial quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9596	I've already given an interpretation for Article 109 and Article 112. Paragraph 4 of Article 112 implies that there are MPs who have not been identified and have not voted by vote, they have not voted. You want me to put this on the vote and this objection of yours? Yeah. ) I object to Mr. Seselj's injury to members 109 and 112. For 28, against 140, there were no abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 179 MPs. I find that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure in Articles 109 and 112. We continue to work. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. We heard his discussion. The amendment was also discussed by Mr. Seselj as president of the parliamentary group, Mr. Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group and Minister Djelic. Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Dragan Tomic to Article 8. For 55, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, out of a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was also submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, he has the word National MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why you think it's a shame to accept the amendment of the opposition MPs. Try it once, you'll see, it doesn't hurt a bit. On Article 8, you accepted Mr Pal Shandor's amendment, which says: "the difference between the amount paid and the real market value". What amount paid and what market values and what and what does this formulation even apply to? My amendment reads: "The difference between the amount paid and the real market value of the purchased property or land referred to in Article 3 paragraph 1 of the 20th of this Act", as well as Mr Pal Shandor's amendment, but this is not seen in the amendment. My amendment makes it quite clear. That's what we've been telling you here for days. No matter what solution the opposition offers, you will accept the moles, nakaradally or any other solution by the MPs from your ranks. What you've accepted, it's so unspeakable, so much not knowing what it's about, so much so it's a shame and it doesn't have to be brought. Really, it's so embarrassing and this law at all. Really, I don't understand anything. The first part of the amendment is normally waste, because I asked for point 2a to be added, which says the base of the foreign exchange tax bought from the National Bank of Yugoslavia is the difference between the dinar equivalent calculated on the market rate and the dinar value of those foreign exchanges calculated on the official course. You didn't want to accept that amendment of mine. You only confirmed our claims that the funds collected from the application of this law would not go where you said they should go, to the compensation of the damaged. If those funds were to go there, then the law would clearly say 30% goes into that fund, 30% goes into this fund, 20% goes into that fund or any percentage. This way you don't know where the funds are going based on the application of this law. You don't know anything, like you don't even know what's going on based on Mr. Pal Shandor's amendment, which was adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9598	He has the word Mr. Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9599	Mr. Vucurovic, apparently, did not follow the whole debate closely. When the country is bought on Flowers in 1993, the tax base must be established. Therefore, Article 3 and in cases where the country is purchased in Flowers in 1993, the tax base must be established. Therefore, in view of Flowers in 1993, we claimed that something was a reason for taxation. Since the basics are being established here, it is logical to add here too - on Flowers in 1993, point 20. It is clear what it refers to, given that Article 3 has adopted an amendment relating to Article 3. Given that the amendment has been adopted, the tax base must also be adopted. The law needs to be interpreted consistently. There's no arbitraryness or anything like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9600	Does anyone else want a word? He has the word Mr Vojislav Seselj as president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9601	Here, in fact, we have two semi-alignments within one single - Mr. Vuchurovic, who basically supports Mr. Shandor Pal. It's just that these amendments, too, raise a lot more big questions. As far as the exchange rate is concerned, we made that question clear yesterday, because there was officially only one course. There's never been a market course. What you call a market course now, it was a criminal course. For whoever was counting on that course was prescribed jail time. That's the problem. Abuse must be sought where the National Bank gave foreign exchanges to someone she shouldn't have given. That's where corruption is sought. In order to apply this, corruption must first be set up. There is the most flagrant example of Joseph Kasa and his 14.5 hectares of the country. It is true that Bozidar Vucurovic and Shandor Pal insists that the price difference, the real market price at which the country was sold during that period and the price at which they account for Kasina's daughter, should be determined as the only buyer. Other customers couldn't even get a look at it. Their offers couldn't even be submitted, let alone considered. What's next in that case? First of all, it must be criminally responsible for someone from the state administration of income in Subotica, who, after a sales tax on real estate, admitted that price, or may have established someone else. That's where we get to the crime scene that's obvious. There is no traffic of real estate certified by the state and the competent court, without tax charges. The transfer is considered complete and it is possible to enroll in cadastar books only when tax is paid. Taxes shall be subject to the correct prices from the purchase contract when private persons trade with each other. They try to avoid tax, so they write a much smaller price in the contract than the one that's real. You know that all the traffic of real estate between private persons is done in cash with us. No one has managed to channel it into some institutional channels, nor will they be able to do it for a longer period of time. However, there was therefore an income management that established the real market value and accounted for tax, regardless of what was written in the sales contract. The gift tax was identical to the sales tax in case the property owner changed. That should be in mind here and here. Therefore, there will be no reference only to the criminal part of Kasa, who was the president of the municipality, so he misused the function, and his daughter who was used, but also to the concrete function of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, which allowed it to be implemented. Therefore, without criminal responsibility, it is pointless to ask these questions. There's a crime to the end. It's as pure as the sun, as many lawyers would say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9602	Anyone else answer for a word? He has the word Mr Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9603	Man thinks someone believes we're gonna get tired. But we're not gonna get tired. We're talking to you, and we know there's a story going on in front of the walls, but at least the citizens of Serbia will hear what it's about. At the worst of times, at the time of the embargo, the economy was constantly growing in production, and it had a fall in your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9604	I ask the MPs not to receive the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9605	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Finally. The entire article 8, essentially, speaks of a clear intention, which is constantly behind this speaker MPs of opposition parties trying to indicate and explain. We support the idea of passing laws that will tax all those who have profited in terrible times for our people, when the international community, following its policy in these areas, in the old American administration, has done evil to this people, and has created conditions to criminalise society, that people without work, in fact, because they have a basis in the part of foreign private capital, create huge profits here. However, your law, which you are proposing, does not in any way include those who have built huge factories, large houses, by smuggling, by supporting foreign capital in these areas. They're not covered by this law. This law covers only the institutional part of the practice, where it was certainly possible for possible abuses. Now, in that institutional part, you're cutting like a knife on a tree. Please - Article 8. - you only go to the nominal value and point, as if there was no cost. If you received foreign exchanges in the exchange rate of 6.00 dinars, in support of exports, as an exporter, you had to have someone to deal with marketing, you had to have your own people to secure the sale of your products through another, third or fourth country, because we were under the embargo. You had to have transport costs, various kinds of costs, various types of taxes that were domestically paid in the exporting country. In the end, you, as an exporter, were in debt from five to 20% of the exports realised to sell at the same rate of 6.00 dinar per mark to the National Bank of Yugoslavia. What's the lawmaker doing? He forgets all that. Absolutely forgets all that. Why? Because we have a targeted law that pursues moral-politically inadequate, and nothing more. Worse yet, this same proposer, nowhere in Article 8, gave no methodology, didn't give criteria. He has kept everything past the Assembly as a right, especially in Article 9 to negotiate, negotiate, and he is the chief supreme judge beyond the judicial system, past any legal authorities. The worst part is that the promoter even gave himself the right, if someone did everything by law, that he estimated that the law was incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9606	The word is given by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9607	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, seems to me to be repeating the story that is characteristic of the whole debate that follows the adoption of this law, and therefore we are obliged as those who support this idea and who seek to specify it in that formal legal form, to say that this law does not exclude any criminal liability, nor is anyone amnesty, especially those who have acquired wealth in a criminal way, in a criminal environment, which was the criminal truth and because of the circumstances in which our society existed, and because of those who then created an ambience in our society. I want to tell you that this law deals specifically with old foreign exchange savings, the organisation and business of pyramid banks and savings banks, the misuse of the loan for Serbia's rebirth, the primary emissions, the purchase of foreign exchanges on the interbank market, the misuse of excise and other products that were in the contigence and quota regime, the misuse of trade in commodity reserves, the misuse of available funds, the abuse of use in privatisation. So these are areas that have nothing to do with the international community, with sanctions and with all those pressures that we were exposed to as a society. If that's the case, I'll remind you of some specific examples. An example of old foreign savings. It is estimated that only Slavija Bank has paid 520 million marks to privileged persons. I remind you that the old foreign currency savings, which disappeared between 1989 and 1993, disappeared most directly between 1989 and 1992 before the imposition of sanctions, amounted to 8.7 billion marks. Organisation and business of pyramid banks and savings banks. Established officially: 1. That the idea of creating, constructing and working financial institutions, above all "Dafiment Bank", was followed by the competent state authorities; 2. That pyramidal banks and many savings banks worked in direct contact with the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the National Bank of Serbia, the SDK then and other state institutions; 3. That certain business moves by these banks were taken with a direct agreement with the country's political leadership. The loan for Serbia's rebirth, 1989, according to the party's account and credit of all payments made and the repayment of loans from 1990 to 2000: the real value of the loan received was 145 million, paid back 83 million. The primary emissions, according to the data available at this time, of the base of taxation amounted to 650 million marks and were not created by either the European Union or the United Nations Security Council. That primary show was created by those who then exercised monetary power. The purchase of interbank exchanges on the basis of processed data has been found to have been achieved by buying foreign exchanges in the official course at a time when the market rate was far higher for 1992, 1998, 1999, 2000, one billion German marks. Where are those funds? There is no reason to defend those who have thus taken away our right to a different future. There's no reason to amnesty these individuals, because no one's accusing the whole system of something like that, and in situations where you're frontal defending those who don't deserve that defense, you're becoming their associates in this business. There's no reason to run from something that's so obvious. This is not an example of political rematchism. This also obliges us to think about the political moves we are making, and it gives you the right to one day if we are bad at this job, you make us this kind of account. This is not the account of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party, or any party that then created the ambience in which we lived. This is a debt to the citizens that we have to settle. It's true that there are damages, but who are your damages? Companies, individuals, but also society in general, and that society will in some way be compensated for everything that has suffered in the past 13 years through the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9608	Mr. Seselj, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9609	We don't want to protect any criminals. We don't want to protect anyone who has abused function, and we don't trust you to have these things in an extra-institutional way to bring them into order. We are for all criminals to be brought to justice and to the law, all those who have abused the function, all those who have acquired privileges by illegal use of primary emissions, buying foreign exchanges per course, funds from the Serbian Renaissance Loan, the Development Fund, etc., but in an institutional way, in a way that is applied in all civilized countries, not that justice tailors are Minister Djelic and Aleksandar Radovic. That's the point. They are the tailors of justice here with discretionary powers. They all need to come, and they can tell from the eye what to pay and they can still guess when to who and how much to pay. That's the point. In all civilized countries, courts do the job. We don't believe much in these courts under your control, but it's the only institutional way to solve a problem. The problem exists, many have been kidnapped, many have abused functions, many have been exploited, etc. The court's way to determine which they are, to implement the court procedure and then to satisfy both law and justice, and not to give one executive authority the opportunity based on some discretionary rights to retaliate with people from some of the previous ruling furniture. That's the point. Only for that reason do we dispute this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9610	Mr. Ivkovic as representative of the parliamentary group, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9611	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's not nice here to impute something that doesn't stand. No one's trying to defend themselves. On the contrary, the Socialist Party of Serbia argues that, besides those covering this legal project, which is only 1/5, the rest, another 4/5, that does not cover at all. It's about making a target law. All those who have and how they have profited, who are also the real war profiteers, who have not paid taxes, who have worked with cash, who have built houses of 1,000 and 2,000 square meters, swimming pools, tennis courts, factories, trucks, planes, they are not, and that is what this is about. We're not keeping anyone safe. On the contrary, we want to create a sense of responsibility for you to push those who may be with you or have funded you into that legal project of yours. You shouldn't, my dear gentlemen, with a whole new law that has no methodology, no criteria, old abuses and injustices to correct new abuses and new injustices. What better example than Saturday's SPS rally? One quiet rally, no excess. The minister mentions criminal charges, and where are the criminal charges for the burning of the Assembly and the burning of the RTS? They're gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9612	Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 55, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9613	This amendment has been sparked by my knowledge of the state's criminal buyout, carried out by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Kasa Jozef. As far as I know, the country's bids were scheduled, say, on Sunday at 10.00 a.m., and then on Friday, before the end of the work, on the ad board, it would have been said that the bidding would have moved by 9:00 a.m., because the commission, which held the bidding that day, was too busy. So Mr. Joseph, his daughter, his near relatives, were mostly lyciants. There was no real bidding, and when there was no real bidding, then there was no ransom for the reality of the country. And there's one amendment you've accepted. However, I think that the amendment I have proposed is more precise, because the whole of Article 8 in such cases formulates the real value of the funds received, the real value of the funds recovered, the real value of the loans received from the primary emissions, the real value of the funds recovered. So here and here, the real value, the real amount paid and the real market value of the country, and then that would be the right way for DOS to be dealt with in its own lines, as you said, and not for the Democratic Party to publish lies, mostly by mentioning me. You've reached out to me, I seem to have the privilege of being beaten and harassed by every authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9614	But focus on your amendment, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9615	I will, I will. Just enjoy yourself. When I focus, it's all going right. When you focus, there's a fight in the congregation. So today, the Democratic Party announces that I am in vain buying out acres of land in my father's hometown, in the village of Bajcetina, on the Adriatic mountains. Now, this is already the highlight of non-civilisation, the peak of pointless attacks on a national MP, who only bothers because he is doing his job at a pay phone in the Serbian Parliament. In my father's native village I have a fatherland worth as much as all those peasants a dozen acres of land they have, and they have no way to the village. They only have monophasic current, there are 21 households, 18 live people, 12 houses live only one at a time. Now, somebody's really interested in buying out acres and acres of land, and I'm not even arriving at the Forests on Saturdays and Sundays to cut down in the yard, how much I work to prove that you are the worst government that ever ruled Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9616	The word is Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9617	You may be eager to rage against Serbian radicals, but no provision of this law of yours can apply to us. Absolutely can't, whatever you make up, whatever you're installing. Secondly, we were only two years in power, and your Dusan Mihajlovic was four years, from 1994 to 1998, and the introduction of a multi-party system took him into office in 1990 as vice-president of the last communist government of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9618	Mr. Seselj, please, amendment to Article 8, which Mr. Tomislav Nikolic has submitted, that is the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9619	You should have warned Cedomir Jovanovic, who talked about everything, everything and everything, and it wasn't about the amendment he came forward for. You should have shown your respect for the Rules of Procedure then. As far as this amendment is concerned, it also points to another terrible problem -- no man, an individual, under the laws in force so far, could buy from the state more than ten acres of wages for individual housing, exceptionally maybe up to 15, or 20, mostly in smaller municipalities, where this was more tolerated. And Kasa Jozef, 14.5 acres, that's you: one hectare, which is 10,000 square meters, so that's 145 thousand square meters. Now, that's what you should have in mind. And as far as the apartments are concerned, here, I'm going to give you information about how principled you are. We have never disputed that some Serbian radicals, by law, have been given a flat from the state, but now Minister Bozidar Djelic's apartment, in Ljeskojulica, of 160 squares, and Aleksandar Radovic, who is director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, is also on Leška Street, 180 squares. You recently distributed 70 apartments to officials of the Republic Public Revenue Administration. We'll give you a list of all those who got those apartments, so you see, and the secretaries of two years of work, how they got it. Now, that's the point. So they can win, and some others can't win. All apartments are assigned to use, and there is a law, you have not yet abolished the law, which allows for the purchase of dwellings, which the state assigns to use, because these are not official apartments, but apartments that are leased, indefinitely. Let's break that law, which allows apartments that are leased indefinitely to be bought. There may be a violation here, if the ransom has been committed under the regulations, but if there is a regulation that allows the assignment of the apartment, then everything is legal and by law and nothing retroactive can occur to you to apply it. But I agree, let's make a decision - the state can no longer give public officials apartments, make laws. Or to pass the law - you can no longer buy apartments that are given for use. Until such laws are passed, this is pointless. In the case of Casa Joseph, it's such a crime that it's no longer allowed by any law to drag it under the carpet. It's not a question of whether Casa Joseph will pay for what he took, but whether he will be held accountable for it. You can't afford 14.5 acres. There's no legal basis. And this extra tax of yours means nothing - that Kasa Jožef comes to Djelic and Radovic and they agree on how much Kasa Jožef will pay. Don't, please, there's crime first and crime should be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9620	The replica was reported by Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9621	First of all, there's one notorious lie, and I don't know about the other. As far as I'm concerned, I didn't get any flats in Lezhko, I don't know where that is, on Ban's Hill? So that's just a lie. As far as I'm concerned, I live with my aunt, and given how much this housing fund has been robbed, given my personal material situation, which is the product of my former work, I decided, because the former regime has robbed the housing fund so much, it's how many people in the government are waiting for that apartment, that I'm never going to ask for anything from the state, and for my family I'm going to pay out of my pocket. Thank you. [[Vojislav Seselj is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9622	You don't have the right to a replica, the man has brought forth only facts. Is anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 53, against 108, there were no abstentions, no vote of 20, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9623	The Honorable Presidency, since the government is working past Parliament, is no wonder, since we are here, and sometimes Mr Djelic is there, so they could not adopt these amendments. What's this about? There's been a lot of talk about these amendments. But the point is, in the primary show, when the money was taken, when the banks were getting money and investing it in agriculture, you were all saying -- they were trading grains, the furniture factory was also involved, like everyone else, in that. But all that money that's been received, and 80% of it's from agriculture. Mr. Djelic, you've never told who your money will be returned to. Will they be returned to the peasants and to the farms that are almost all bankrupt? Please calm this lower home a little bit. As far as you know about agriculture and how much you love it - it can be seen by you. Now, agricultural goods are all bankrupt. The banks owed them big money. That tax money should be returned to those of whom it was taken. To those who were hit by the harvest the other day, to those who worked day and night, to those who held this land for ten years, and these are agricultural workers. They were the only ones who paid for the black final course and oil and oil, spare parts, protection, and at official prices you sold them agricultural products. The day-to-day this government is lying, and that's why it's the worst. She promised 11 dinars for wheat. They bought seeds, fertilizers, at the most expensive prices. It wasn't the prices you promised. It's a pure lie, and now you want to buy wheat for 7.5 dinars from them. And you're all tied to a peasant's head, especially this government. You convinced them not to pay taxes. They didn't pay. That's true. Now that you have to pay them what you promised them, you won't pay them. They were almost your educators, a week ago, so they left, yesterday the minister sent kisses to the paramedics. When the peasants come to you, and they'll be here soon, then you'll all be flying along with this whole congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9624	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you go. Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9625	Of course Bozidar Djelic won't admit anything. However, here's a concrete deal -- to go together to Lesko Street, see who owns the apartments, and a 180-square apartment of Aleksandr Radovic and 160-square Minister Djelic, that they nicely hand over to the Serbian Radical Party, if we find those apartments, because we have more personnel problems and we'd have to move some people in, so let's do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9626	Mr. Seselj, you've already talked about this. That's not the subject of the agenda, please go back to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9627	If they're not yours, they're the Republic Public Revenue Administrations, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9628	The word is from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9629	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the MPs of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia to try to preserve at least part of the reputation of this country's parliament. It is so humiliating that there are not enough good words to respond to this humiliation. Insulting families, insulting especially those who have chosen us here is the clearest message about the character of one who strives for such a policy. I have never offended anyone (regarded to comment from the O.R.) and will behave in the future. If we can't influence the MPs of the opposition acting that way, please let us be consistent with what we've been doing for ten years and continue with the work we started here in January of the month. This amendment by Mr Marjanski is an amendment which the committees have not accepted and which, as a parliamentary majority, we cannot support, which does not mean that we disagree with what is said in the light of such an effort. It's true that the peasants paid an expensive price. It is true that it is very difficult to respond to their demands. But also, it will be difficult to find arguments that will identify what we have done so far, according to agricultural producers, with what was done in the previous period. Why it used to be like that-- let them match the other one. I don't want to think that someone had the intention of destroying Serbian agriculture, but I can say that the policy that was led was conditioned by many factors and that it resulted in very difficult consequences in that segment of our society. In any case, we tried to get through the budget, that agrarian part of it, with tax relief, through the defined price of buying agricultural products to meet the peasants, to the extent possible. The price of 7.5 dinar per kilogram of wheat is defined. The price on the market in countries in the environment is 6 dinars. The stock market in Amsterdam or Constanta is 5.5. Two dinars, poor Serbia, overpaid a kilo of wheat to help peasants in this way. Seasonal agricultural products, raspberries, products are over which there is no longer a monopoly. Until last year, only authorized companies in this country could trade them, or say, just one or two. I remember very well the Deputy Prime Minister who criticized such a policy but didn't change it. He didn't do what he said in 1997 or 1998. We changed that. No more state monopoly in agricultural trade. The laws of the market rule, except in situations where we are forced to subsidize agricultural production for everything she's done for the past 10 years, when she's kept our society alive. But I don't see who can benefit from one misreading of everything that's going on in our country. If we're overpaying for two and a half kilos of wheat, we're helping the villagers in the most concrete way. And here's a chance to talk to them, and they say - 10, but this economy can't take it. It'll be from real sources. There won't be a primary show. And that's exactly what the results remain for us in the previous 120 or 130 days of the Republic government. Among other things, relations in the area of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9630	He has the right to the replica of the People's Ambassador Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9631	Yes, wheat is in other countries five and six dinars. At the beginning of the sowing, this government, or government, promised 11 dinars. Then she promised that artificial fertilizer would be about 25 dinars to 32. Now it's 40 marks a metre of artificial fertilizer that was to be dumped, or that was to be dumped. All products affecting the production of both wheat and corn have been collected compared to what is based. By the way, wheat is a base and a basis for calculating all other prices in agricultural products. As much as wheat is, parity is known. There were words that parity would be 1:1, and now it's 1:2 for artificial fertilizer. That's the problem. That's why people aren't happy. That promise was kept at the beginning, all parity, 32 pfeniga wheat, etc. - wouldn't be a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9632	Anybody else answer for a word? Here, there is a word Mr Markovic is a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had to apply for the discussion when I heard that Mr. Ceda Jovanovic said it was a quite satisfactory price for grain of 6.5 and 7 dinars, respectively. He forgot that his minister, before being appointed minister of agriculture, had promised farmers in January this year that the price of grain would be 11 dinars. When the villagers heard that, they bought artificial fertilizer to feed that grain and entered some investment. When we came, 15 days before the harvest, and I don't think you know when the harvest is, Mr. Jovanovic, when we came 15 days before the harvest, we say the price of the grain of 7.5 dinars. The SS has asked for the replacement of the agriculture minister, precisely for these reasons that nothing has been created for agricultural producers since this new government was formed. And even the oil you got from Italy, badava, you sold that same oil to farmers. Agricultural producers are asking you not to compare them with farmers from the Netherlands, Switzerland, and how there are some parities much better than here, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9634	Right on the line, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9635	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Markovic, since you were unable to change politics through a coalition with JUL, will not be able to change politics through the suggestions you give DOS. You and the wheat have much less connections than you're trying to present here. You can interpret what the MPs say, but it is necessary, however, to strive for proper interpretation in that interpretation. I said the price is 7.5 dinars, that there are 6.5 dinars in the surrounding countries, that there are 5.5 dinars on the stock exchanges in Amsterdam and Constanta, that there are only 10 dinars in the country. These are the facts I was talking about, and all that you think could be done today, you could have applied through a coalition with JUL, which you ruled, in a region where you ruled so well, that you are now an opposition as in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9636	Mr. Markovic, you don't have the right to a replica if you're looking for the right replica. You're the one who caused the replica. You've already spoken as a representative of the parliamentary group, please don't. He now has the word, Mr Dragan Tomic, as representative of the parliamentary group, has been given the authority in a timely manner for the deputy president of the parliamentary group, the authority of June 13th, for your information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9637	Gentlemen People's MPs, Mr. Marjansky's amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9638	Excuse me, Mr. Tomic. I'll make it up to you. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to listen to the speaker and be aware that serious state affairs are being conducted in this room, that there is no room for propagation, for insults, for throw-offs, and please listen to the speaker who's coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9639	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marjanski's amendment has been misused to some extent. The topic was quite correct and talked about the part of the extra profit that could happen in the area of agriculture, and it happened in the previous period, as this law will, when it comes out in the Official Messenger, end the existence of extra profits in the next period. No, there will be extra profits based on agriculture and in the next period. That was the subject. I know everybody likes to call the peasants, you just have to be born, live, and share the expenses with them, talk. They know my Swords well where I was born and what I do, what I do. So I was the director of the Administration of Revenue, but I'm currently processing four acres of land. If you don't mind, you don't need to know about it. So when we talk about the amendment, then please, there's a basis that there's also an extra profit in that part, we just don't want to admit it. We said the price of 7.5, and when the state is going to buy 600 grand, who's going to get the credentials to buy it, what about the other two million and 200 thousand tons? No one's gonna buy it. The Minister of Agriculture himself said that the state will buy the grain, and will the grain industries get credentials from the banks to buy, think about the rest of the production, then what will the peasants do with the rest of the production? Now, these weather conditions are difficult, so you simply don't know how this circus is going to end and the question is how the production is going to end and how it's going to come out of this buyout. There's another fact -- we said 7.5 dinars. Please, all other prices were made during the period when it was a real course of stamps. Today, that course is not real, it's one serious fact because all the other dependent costs are up, they're calculated at this price. We can't talk about that parity. He doesn't exist anymore and it's not true. That's it. Last year the price of raspberry was 45 dinars, and now it's 40. Please, gentlemen, let's see where your real relationships are, where the parities are. It could've sold raspberries before, everyone could, but nothing has changed, the same people who give money, they're still the same. It's not gentlemen, it's just cheaper, even lower, and it's even harder to position agricultural production. That's the only thing that's true. And even bigger extra profits in that area, just for individuals. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9640	The Minister, Mr Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9641	So very briefly about it, I think we see here the key difference that we've been trying to cultivate between what's been going on in the country for the last 13 years and what we've been trying to do, with great pain, to do from now on, which is less pulsism, less stories, more facts and more real things for all of our citizens in the given frameworks. It's hard to accept that there's no such thing as a course right now. There's been something in the last 13 years that's been called a course, and we knew all well that a real course is happening on the street and that what was like a course, it's just some people could get and so there was extra profit. That's what we're going to tax today. Today every citizen, every businessman can enter any exchange office and change, because the dinar has been converting since 9 December 2000, we hold on to it and we will insist on it. It is security and it is a guarantee to all our citizens that they are in one equal position in this economy. It's very important that we maintain. As far as peasants are concerned, let's see how the purchase of wheat happens this year, a price of 7.5 dinars is guaranteed. That price is attractive, if we compare it to the countries in the environment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has noted that it will buy it into three wars, 40%, 30% and 30% more in July, August and September. We're going to allow for some diesel exchanges, for fertilizers, for very attractive parities. As for the quantity, it will also be good, and the government of the Republic of Serbia will say exactly how much it will buy at the next session Tuesday. That's the facts. Believe me, in three months we'll see that we've also done in the agrarian frameworks what's reality, and it's not talking, not cheating through some prices, through a primary show, and through inflation that's going to eat it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9642	We are going to vote on the amendment to Article 8, which was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 53, against 99, a abstentioned one, was not voted 28, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in Article 8. The draft law shall provide a feedback to the provisions of this Article. In accordance with Article 134(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 134 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, specifically determines whether there is a general interest in return. The Finance Committee has assessed that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 8. It's a bill of law. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, contained in Article 8. Proposal for a law on the feedback of the provisions of this article, for which there is a general interest, according to the government's assessment. For 102, against 53, the abstentions were not voted 27, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 8. It's a bill of law. On Article 9 of the amendment, essentially in the same text, the MPs Vera Marković, Pal Shandor, Sladjan Mijalović, Dragan Marković, Borislav Pelevic, Tomislav Nikolic, Bozidar Vučurović, Nebojsa Jović, Stevan Gudurić, Dragan Tomić, Dragan Todorovic, Radojko Petrić, Ljubomir Mucic, Bozidar Vujić and Djorđe Mamula, who are proposing to delete Article 9, i.e. to delete this member and subtitle above Article 9. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted, and the Legislative Committee has adopted this amendment. Do any of the applicants I've read want a word? There's a word for Mr. Pal Shandor's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9643	Dear colleagues, I think it would be very elegant to explain the amendment, Mr. Djelic withdraws, and then we achieved everything that was essential. My colleagues and I have suggested that Article 9 be deleted. Not to quote it completely, the essence of that Article 9 is to allow a contract between taxpayers, which would pay this particular tax. I think the government will best protect itself, if the whole adoption process of this law is fully explained and left without any doubt, without any doubt that those who are now in the opposition can say: here, we have passed the law for political reasons to mainly tax us, and they will forgive their kind of tax in the direct contract. It's one of the arguments, which is why I think this Article 9 should be withdrawn. The reasons, which first of all the government had in mind, in order to make the funds into the budget faster, are reasons to be respected. But other than what I've said here, no other laws regarding tax in our country provide for the possibility of a contract. If the entire legal system does not provide for the possibility of a contract and if there is this kind of political heat and charge around this law, it is necessary for the government to withdraw from the process, when it could possibly come to doubt, in this way and to allow it to be paid in full, as the tax authorities have determined. I have confidence in the government, in the vast majority of government members, except for one, for which I couldn't put my hand in the fire. Since the one recently, which means January 21st, in the newspaper "Majar So", said the following, let me quote: "Of course, I took a double-per-x-sum loan. I asked him to build an apartment so that when my little boy goes to school, he'd have a settled housing issue in Subotica, because from Kelebia, where we live, at the very border, a child still can't come to Saturday every day. I took the loan along with my wife, under the applicable terms of credit. I've got all the proper paperwork. The credit and I and our wife pay off on a regular basis. I don't deny credit, I don't deny anything else, but rumors that... And so on." Now, if the government hadn't come to the situation that eventually in that commission, which will be struck by some of the taxpayers, it would be this vice-president of the government himself, who is otherwise an economist of the profession, I think it is best that the government withdraws from the process, because the gentleman concerned, by his own recognition, falls under the provisions of this law and should, of course, pay this special tax. So in order to actually protect the government, to make the whole process completely controlled and without a doubt, I think it's really best that this Article 9 withdraws. It may be that way that the funds will flow a little slower into the register, but indeed, the government, which has proposed a key step towards the current system, will remain clean, regardless of the small settlements in our ranks. What Mr. Seselj and other MPs said was, of course, true, but the problem is that every time it's spoken of, given that the means of information in Subotica are controlled by his wife, who is the editor-in-chief of Radio Subotics, then it will be said that now there are Serbian chauvinists attacking the poor Hungarian minority. I think Mr. Seselj made a little bit of a mistake, exaggerated in that attack, and the media might not be so good, but the essence of the auctioning on the Flower in 1994 is true. What's the problem? When you were in government, Mr. Seselj, and you knew about this, then you didn't start reporting it as criminally as you're proposing here right now. I guess that's why. Because you were in the coalition with the SPS, and the SPS was always protecting its secret and public coalition partners by nature. This is where we know who it's about. Therefore, once we adopt this Article 9, we will be in a position to publicly determine, without any mortgage, who is required to pay the tax on which grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9644	Mr. Secretary answered for the word. Just a moment, this is a debate on amendments, and there is a order in Article 134, which includes representatives. Mr. Bozidar Djelic answered the word, the MP, Mr. Vojislav Seselj, answered the line. I remain in respect of the right of order, since the determination in whether the shortcut is a replica or is an obstacle to order is not something to be decided by the National Assembly. It only makes sense if it's right now. I agree with you, this congregation makes sense if the order is respected. So he has the word Minister Bozidar Djelic. ( Seselj answers his words in the Rules of Procedure. ) I quoted Article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states the order in which those who have, according to the Rules of Procedure, are to be registered during the debate on amendments. I said we could respect that member of the Rules of Procedure and that Minister Djelic answered the word, as a representative of the government. Under Article 134, a representative of the Government, or a representative of the act, is listed in the second position of this member as the last in a series of those who appear in the debate on amendments, and under Article 96, as an authorised representative of the Government, has the right to receive a word whenever requested. It is up to the Chair of the National Assembly to decide whether to apply Article 134 concerning a direct debate on amendments or a member that implies giving a word to a representative of the Government. I find the word is given to Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9645	I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9646	You'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure and for the replica. Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9647	As a representative of the government, I'd like to say a few words, including the government's position. I said this law is extremely important, because it has an economic but, above all, moral background. I have appealed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that we have as high and wide a debate as possible. We are also ready for many amendments, perhaps more than on some other laws, because it is very important that this law be made better and arranged. This member has caused a lot of reactions, not only in the opposition's ranks, but in the DOS ranks. That's why I'd like to say three things. First, what this position that was proposed on the agreement in determining the tax base is not, secondly, to say what it wants to do and, thirdly, to express the government's position. This member is not a member of the mob, he's not here to pick up a bribe, he's not for someone to make a deal at the expense of the people. For what? For two reasons. The first reason is because the people wouldn't forgive anyone if they did. In this matter, we're talking about the biggest robberies, the organized robberies that have been made in the last 11 years. The idea of someone going and making deals to get some private benefit from it is extremely surprising. Whoever would want to do this would put himself at great risk, not only on morals, in this country, so for that reason, by proposing this member, we thought it wouldn't happen. Another reason that seems even more convincing to me, if you read that article, you will see that it provides for very strong control mechanisms to carry out this process. The Director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, as head of one of our largest administrations in the country, is authorized to enter that discussion, but certainly not authorized to decide for himself, nor is the idea that this person decides for himself, but to propose to a commission that counts more than half of the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and includes the Governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, that the proposal adopted by the Commission or not. This is not the end of the story, as the government of the Republic of Serbia should approve a proposed agreement on the establishment of a tax base. The third degree is the control of a parliamentary commission, which we expect the National Assembly to form. It's a very powerful control mechanism that's not in any other law. It's not surprising here, because this law is very specific. According to this article, there would be very strong control and the public of all these procedures that would be for those of the biggest taxpayers who would go through this procedure. That's why we think this member was good under this law. So he's not up for mumbling, he's not about making a deal, he's not about doing something against his people, and there's parts in law enforcement where someone should allow themselves, and so that if we have such a control mechanism that allows and what control not only happens in RUJP, what happens in the government, and not only what happens in the National Assembly, but also in the commission, where we expect opposition representatives to be involved. Secondly, what does this member represent? Based on the example of some other tax systems, and not only of them, where for the largest taxpayers in one complicated situation, we have seen that there are commissions that can enter into the agreement when there are more sources of taxation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, seeing that this complicated matter, because of the possibility of appeal, can be brought into one very long, judicial and other procedure, to make it difficult for the Commission to work and - most importantly, after the vote - to collect, and this fat, maximum possible, so that we can repay the maximum funds to our people. The only goal of this member was to make it possible to charge as efficiently and as quickly as possible what our people are looking for, and that's tax collection. It is obvious that the provisions in this law (I have moved to the position of the Government), I would like to quote Article 13 which should provide for a more efficient and faster charge, met a large and broad understanding not only of the positions, but of the opposition as well. In fact, if this member were deleted, life would be easier for the government. Here, now the opposition is trying to attract suspicion of what the RJP and the commission are doing, which will remain. On the other hand, my responsibility on behalf of the Government requires me to say that eradicating this member will make it difficult for us to work, make it harder to charge, and that we will most likely manage to raise less funds than this law. However, between more funds and faster collection, which is always the goal of the executive government, since we want to have certain results of this, and some doubts that would be attracted to work and this law that is extremely important and has, I repeat, above all, a moral background, we accept the removal of this member. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9648	The stenogram works, since it is possible that, in the context of this amendment, as well as an amendment to Article 13 of this Act, there will be reports by the Government's representative, the Proposer in this case, to be applied. 88th and 134, if I misquoted them in the previous explanation. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9649	This is terrible how you violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's faceless and flagrant. First of all, when an MP reports by the Rules of Procedure or by a replica, that is beyond any order. And in order, in accordance with Article 134. Rules of Procedure, the government's representative is in the last place. First comes the applicant of the amendment, then the authorised representative of the MPs, if it is a group of MPs, then the committee's rapporteur, then the president of the parliamentary group, then the authorised representative of the government. That's where you obviously broke the Rules of Procedure. But that's not the worst violation. You just broke, and for the third or fourth time, putting it to the vote whether retroactively a provision will be applied. This whole law is retroactive. This is shown in Article 2. This law applies exclusively to the past tense. He's already against it at the beginning. There is no constitutional court that will not bring him down. It's all about the past tense. It says it will apply for the period from 1 January 1989 until the entry into force. The date of entry into force is the time limit of the duration of the law. It only applies until the day of entry into force. Such a law does not exist in Europe, and when Tominist Djelic here tries to explain it, he calls for his morale. We don't question his morals. We will never discuss Minister Bozidara Djelic's morale, because the very fact that he was an adviser to Anatoli Chubajs speaks best of his morals. He was the advisor to the greatest Russian criminal of all time, Anatoly Chubais, and don't tell us about morality. This is about your violation of the Rules of Procedure, and now are you giving me a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9650	It's connected.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9651	There's nothing connected. I have a replica of Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9652	If you're good enough to get back to your seat in the MP's bench. National MP Vojislav Seselj warned of the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman and if there is one thing in which we all participate together in this assembly, and it is good that there is at least one, then it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I explained in this part where Minister Djelic was told that there is a right to chair the assessment of the application of Articles 134 and 88. The MP who warns of a breach of the Rules of Procedure would have to, in a desire not to violate the Rules of Procedure, quote a member of the Rules of Procedure and say what is the provision in breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to ask the People's Parliament, under the obligation of the Rules of Procedure, do you want to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Vojislav Seselj: I even read article 134 and say I did not specify a member. What are you doing? I read the article in front of you. ) We vote on MP Vojislav Seselj's proposal that article 134 has been broken. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 59, against 104, one abstention, did not vote 23, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has negatively decided on a proposal to violate Article 134. National MP Vojislav Seselj asked for the right to reply to the presentation of MP Pal Shandor, who submitted the amendment to Article 9.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9653	Pal Shandor mentioned me in two contexts. First, on the matter of relations with the Hungarians. I've never said a single negative word in my life about Hungarians, and that's what Pal Shandor should know. Even at a time when I was on television with him running fire political dialogues, he knows that we were meeting and divorcing as friends and that I was always full of nice words towards members of the Hungarian people, who I appreciate and respect for his history, culture, tradition and honorable conduct in these most critical times in which Serbia has been found in the past 10 years. As for Joseph Kasa, I remind Pal Sandor, unfortunately he was not in the previous term in the National Assembly, I do not know for what reason that MPs and ministers of the Serbian Radical Party, and I, as vice-president of the Government, were with a bunch of material all the details of the affairs of Joseph Kasa in Subotica, which we knew and could document. We didn't have the strength, although we were in the government, but as a minority partner, don't forget, to go through the institutions of the system, so that Joseph Kasa would be brought into law and justice. He had some deal with someone from the regime, but from another party. With whom, you now determine. Like Dusan Mihajlovic - I was telling you here that from "Yugopetrol" he was getting huge money for his company, Lutra. That's reliable data, and you now determine who's been dealing with anyone before. Everything the Serbian radicals did, they did publicly, and we have no dirty leads. As far as Joseph Kasa is concerned, everything he has done is not out of date, because it's not about tax obligations, it's about much more serious violations of the law and crimes. That's why we're against these provisions...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9654	I ask the MP not to express his judgments in the character of what is contained.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9655	I'm not talking about the character of Joseph Kasa, and I'm not giving judgments about his character, I'm talking about his actions that are documented here. It is about 14.5 hectares of the state country, which he has adopted, and could not by any law, in any version.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9656	Those parts shall become documentation when they are established by the competent authority of the State.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9657	The competent authority has established. The speaker serves to present the facts. The Commission of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, whose minister was Gordana Pop-Lazic, has established and documented everything. The state authority has determined, but the courts have not responded. That is the problem, and it is unbearable for Jozef Kasa to adopt those 14.5 hectares, he can go and deal with Minister Djelic and Aleksandar Radovic, to pay a little more and nothing. This is what is unbearable and therefore this provision of the law cannot survive. We do not believe you, in your morality you cannot convince us, because your past speaks quite differently and therefore, do not argue with the oath of morality something that cannot be maintained from the aspect of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9658	The word has a minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9659	How do you trust a man who starts first in five minutes and tells you that he will never question your morality, and after 3.5 minutes, he questions him? That's the first question. Another thing I'd like to mention, since it was Russia, I'd just like to say that Mr. Cubace is the president of the Russian EPS today, and it was a great honor for me to meet President Putin last week. The meeting President Putin had with a high-level delegation, with President Kostunica and Prime Minister Djindjic, yielded extremely good results. As we know, we will have much more stable and good gas supply mechanisms, stabilise our trade relations with them, and it has been a great honor and pleasure to see that President Putin said on his return to Moscow that the talks in Belgrade were extremely favourable, that there was no difference between Russia, the Russian Federation, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia. Russia and Serbia, Russia and Yugoslavia have tighter relations every day. It's an extremely important relationship that we have, an important ally, and we're going to have that relationship and how to cultivate it. Just one last note regarding morality and institutions, and that may be just one, if you like, and a personal lesson. Of course, what the government is doing and what Parliament is doing should not depend solely on the quality of people. As someone said, everyone is honest until they come to some great temptation and then it is proved to be the integrity and morality of that man. I guarantee it to me, and as far as the evidence is concerned, it needs to be proved every day and it's up to me and everyone to prove it every day. The lesson and this Article 9, if I can return the discussion to that, is that, obviously, not only from the opposition but also from the DOS, it is shown that we have a very long and painful way of restoring trust in the institutions, in the institutions of government, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the administration, in the commissions we form. Obviously, that trust is not still at that level where it should be, and I am sure by further work of the government, by further exposure to the very broad public, and by transparency in the work of the government and this Parliament, that we will quickly restore that trust of the citizens, restore the trust of the economy, restore the trust of the Parliament. It's up to us to work, and obviously we didn't get to that level that was desirable. Therefore, I repeat, we agree on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to delete that member. There will be less money, less and slower to come, but if it's a reflection of our situation and the mutual trust we have in our institutions, it's a picture of our country. [[Employer Vojislav Seselj is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9660	People's MP Vojislav Seselj is looking for a replica - a basis for replication? (Employer Seselj, from the post: The basis for the replica is that the first part of the presentation, Minister Djelic, dedicated to me and my presentation. ) I think that Mr. Djelic has enough serious business and about this member, and that he has not concentrated part of his discussion on you in such a tone of misreading, to get the right to replication. I find that the mandated representative of the draft agenda, in the part of the amendment's proposal to Article 9, has said that the proposer practically accepts the amendment, i.e. accepts that Article 9 of the draft law, which is in the debate, is deleted. I feel that this is no longer necessary to discuss this amendment, or amendments, and that, by accepting the Government, Article 9 of the Bill has been deleted from the proposal for legislation. The legal - technical order is such that the other members of the law, in a legal-technical sense, will adjust to the government's decision that has just been made. Does a representative of the government want a word? No, I don't. Ambassador Seselj is looking for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. I hereby conclude that Article 9 of the Law does not exist in the draft law. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj, MP of the people, Ceda Jovanovic, signed in. I apologize, the first is Ceda, the secretary suggests -- MP Cedomir Jovanovic. (Employer Seselj from the site: Who suggests? ). A secretary who's been following me while I'm reading. Here's a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9661	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I give up the objections arising from the disrespect of the Rules of Procedure, as I am afraid that I would in this way look like some representatives of the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9662	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9663	You have broken the Rules of Procedure three times - first, which you have not allowed me to replicate Minister Djelic, which you have explained that Minister Djelic has too much to do in his presentation to deal with me. That's one violation. The second violation is that, at the statement by Minister Djelic, that he accepts the amendments, you have suspended the debate on the amendments. Let's see, first of all, when you opened the debate, you said there were larger numbers of amendments, which are essentially consistent. But they are not identical, so it was not possible to bring together the debate on them, and now it is not clear which amendment was accepted by the government at all, if she accepted it at all, and if we can believe the word of Minister Djelic naked. Which of those amendments? Or she accepts everything, and one by one she orders. Well, that really doesn't make sense what you're doing here. And thirdly, first you give me your word in the Rules of Procedure, then you list who else has reported to the Rules of Procedure, and you say - the secretary suggests that some other MP is. So think about what that looks like, what does that mean? There are no members here, because what the chairman is doing now cannot be predicted by any rules of procedure in the world. This is a miracle unseen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9664	One at a time - a statement by the authorising officer, who is proposing that article 9 be deleted, does not doubt what is happening to that member. At the time when an authorised representative of the proposing declares that he is withdrawing a member of the law, which is the subject of the debate in the National Assembly, all other amendments relating to the member, which no longer exist, become groundless. The second part of the Rules of Procedure - I have explained it once already, but it is okay, once again (if we can, Members of Parliament, listen, if we already have objections to the Rules of Procedure and in the way of holding the session, then let us hear each other by the end) - so, with what means the subject of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, by the intervention of MP Vojislav Seselj, and as regards the order of the registered speakers, that is, the Secretary of State intervened in the order of the registered speakers, according to the same Rules of Procedure, is there to assist the chairman in the conduct of the session. If you have nothing new in violating the Rules of Procedure, and if the MP is pleased, do you want to vote on the provisions that have been violated (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Let me plead. ) - what provisions have been broken, the provisions of which member? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I want to plead. No, you tell me from the scene, because it's supposed to be put to a vote. It may, if the MP, in communication with the chairman, has to make a statement about whether he wants to vote, then that is how it is done. Do you want a vote? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I want to plead, I don't know if you can hear me.) ) I hear you and I will repeat what you said, in the same text, come out of place if you want. If you don't want it, it's also your right. I think the fact that you're whispering is you're trying to mock the communication between the chairman and the MP. You're not accomplishing anything. Do you want it or not? It can also be verbal, and non-verbal communication. I figure he doesn't want to. He has the word National MP Branislav Ivković (intervention, violation of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9665	I thank Mrs. Comic, and I must say that you have brought this session, and us MPs, into a very unpleasant situation. What is it about - my dear gentlemen, I would ask you to look at the Rules of Procedure, to look at the chronology of the writing of the Rules of Procedure, and to understand and understand very easily to be a member of 88. The Rules of Procedure refer exclusively to the debate in principle. The chronologically complex order is further in the Rules of Procedure and comes to Article 134, which exclusively refers to the discussion in particular. Chuck, the first sentence says, "If the bill is accepted in principle, the National Assembly will move to search in detail and decide on amendments." So, the 88th member to whom Mrs. Chairman was called refers exclusively to the order and possibility of performing after this speaker of those who debate in principle. Article 134 refers, and it says in the first sentence, only to discussion in particular. With the malicious interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, we have come to the position that the chairman has made it impossible for MPs, who have amendments, to speak about all amendments, or to declare whether they are withdrawing their amendment. The authorising officer, the proposing representative, does not have the right to withdraw a member of the law. He only has the right to agree to an amendment, or to reject it. We here have delivered material from the Government of the Republic of Serbia (dated with 11 June signed by the Deputy Prime Minister, in which amendments are rejected). Now it's coming out, co-operation with the chairman, a representative of the authorised legislators, and he says, "I'm pulling a member." No, it doesn't. It doesn't say anything that a proposing's representative can pull a member. He can, and that's why Article 134 arranged it, to listen to those who have submitted the amendment, to listen to whether someone is withdrawing the amendment, and finally to say - before the vote I accept, or - I don't accept the amendment. Therefore, my dear legalists, who swear to it, understand and see, do not embarrass us as a congregation. We already voted against the Rules of Procedure once today. Article 88 exclusively regulates the debate in principle. Article 134. Exceptional discussion in particular. Therefore, six SPS MPs have amendments. If Mr. Pal Shandor spoke, each of those MPs who submitted the amendments have the right to speak, and finally - a representative of the government to agree or refuse. We need to know which amendment he agreed to. To pull a member can't. It doesn't say he has a right to do that anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9666	National MP Branislav Ivkovic... He's leaving the O.R. I ask the People's Assembly, if the MPs care about being clear, and I don't think Branislav Ivkovic cares about what he had and left. I will address the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, as I assume he is replacing him in all cases, even if the president is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's hear from the authorised representative whether he will be pleased with the comment on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The fact that the MP here has convinced what has happened in his own way is something that is meant for the application of the Rules of Procedure. The difference between the MPs who interpret the Rules of Procedure or find a procedural error in the application of the Rules of Procedure and the one who holds the chair is that he who, according to the Rules of Procedure, is bound by the normal course of the session and by order of the sitting, that the sitting takes place in accordance with the procedure of the amendment. At the time when, to remain completely clear, the government's authorised representative said that Article 9. (as an authorised promoter) no longer exists in the bill, at that moment, my assessment is that the need for amendments to a member no longer exists ceases. The fact that some MPs have been cut off for their time should mean that they are satisfied because, together, everyone has saved time in the debate of the National Assembly, and they have achieved the goal agreed by MPs and opposition and positional parties. Is the representative satisfied with the interpretation? Does the Assembly want to vote on the fact that the Rules of Procedure have been violated by these findings? Mr. Tomic, you can nod your head to tell me if you want to vote or not. To avoid whispering. Do you want to make a statement to the Assembly or not? I can hear you if you say it loud enough. Do you want a vote on breaking the Rules of Procedure or not? [[Employer Tomic, from the site - the comet is not heard.]] You don't have to explain, yes or no. Do you want to or not want to? Yes, you do. I put to the vote - MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the parliamentary group, as the objector of the breach of the Rules of Procedure came out of the room, uninterested in the response, seeking a vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare that the Rules of Procedure are in breach of the Rules of Procedure in the procedure of considering amendments to Article 9. For 50, against 111 abstentions, there were no 27 votes, out of a total of 188 MPs. On Article 9 of the amendment with the correction together... (More MPs simultaneously advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) I ask the MPs, if they wish to object to the Rules of Procedure for a debate already under way, that they should not appear in this debate. If they have a new objection to the Rules of Procedure, they really do it as an objection to the Rules of Procedure. National MPs - Marijan Rističević, Tomislav Nikolic, Aca Radosavljevic, Stevan Ž. Gudurić, Đorđe Mamula and Bozidar Vucurović - I ask the MPs to try to remember the order in which they appear in connection with violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Article 95(2). Rules of Procedure. I quote - the MP who advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure is obliged to state, in his opinion, what provision of the Rules of Procedure is violated, that it is quoted and reasoned. For the second day, an MP, who has been here for five hours, and who's got half the security cut out, who comes out here, advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9668	I ask the MP to take care of the speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9669	He advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure by not citing which member of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion has been violated. Mostly, none of the members are broken, except members of the Communist Union that Hakia Pozderac threw out. I ask that the Assembly vote that the gentleman in question has injured the Rules of Procedure because he has repeatedly advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure without quoting a provision that has been violated and not by a member who has been injured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9670	The answer to Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević - cannot vote on the fact that an MP has injured the Rules of Procedure, nor can such an explanation be given to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. But it's not boring anyway. MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9671	I am reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 137, because you have allowed the Government's representative to do something he has no right to do by the Rules of Procedure, and even now I am not sure whether what he has now said is the Government's position or not. In fact, the day before yesterday, this same government official said in a principle debate over these same amendments that the government did not accept these amendments. He even asked the MPs of the majority and repeated it on TV both night and night last night to think hard, because the government won't give up on this member, because it's a member who's making some big revenues and it's actually the basis of this law, as he said. However, not all amendments were identical. For example, I've submitted an amendment that I've predicted would erase the name of this head.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9672	I ask the MP not to explain the amendment to the non-existent member of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9673	Aman, let me go. I have three minutes to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9674	In the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the subject is the subject of what you are reporting for after the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9675	You know, it's called campeicism, what you do. Think about it. Read some books and try to contain them in some ways. That uncontrollable stream of words, which comes out of your mouth without any meaning, and here and for no reason, since I speak exclusively to the Rules of Procedure, you don't need this moment. When I get off the phone, I'm gonna have the nerve to listen as much as you want to talk about this. But you're wasting my time. I have three minutes to explain how you hurt the Rules of Procedure. I am explaining - you have accepted Mr. Shandor's amendment that does not contain all the words to be deleted from the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9676	I warn you, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The debate on the amendments was suspended after an authorised representative of the draft act, who in the procedure, completely independent of the fact that the applicant of the amendment, one of the amendments, was given the floor, said he was withdrawing Article 9.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9677	Oh, my God, are you finished? Ma'am, the proposaler's representative has not deleted the words - the contractual determination of the tax base. He deleted only a member that the government had provided for, and that now means that the government can provide for a regulation to agree on a tax base, because the law did not provide for a member and leave it to the government to regulate it itself. That's what you should think about when you write laws, because I don't trust the government. On the basis of a proposal from the President of the Commission to examine abuses, the government allowed the Director of the Republic Administration of Public Revenue to be affected, and he signed the proposal to the government. Aleksandar Radovic signed a proposal to the government that Aleksandar Radovic is now in second position, bargaining with taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9678	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9679	No, you just have to quote to take it away from me. How can I believe, the privatisation minister has a privatisation company, the energy minister represents... which is now being presented as the only energy supplier in Serbia. The Minister of Agriculture is lying about what the ransom price is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9680	I ask the MP to use a polite dictionary in speaking from the National Assembly's pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9681	What word did I say that offended someone? Did Minister Vesenov say that the ransom price of wheat would be 12, did he lie to the peasants how much the ransom price would be?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9682	Four minutes and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9683	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9684	I ask you as MPs, that the fact that it is about the amendment to Article 9. The National Assembly had this procedure, don't use the insolent because there was no discussion about the amendments. Article 9 on the guessing we've all called for here in the debate, no longer exists in the bill of law. Who was next? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9685	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, we have witnessed the last months of a constant violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this directly in Article 95, when MPs are asking us to speak to the Rules of Procedure or to speak to the Rules of Procedure, and that is exclusively the heads of the SPS and the SRS parliamentary groups, and for the past period, they could discuss everything, and they can't speak to the Rules of Procedure because the Member of the 95th says - the MP who wants to talk about the breach of this Rules of Procedure. So you can only talk about injury. And just before me, the speaker, referring to the Rules of Procedure, was obliged, and the next position of this member says - the MP is obliged to specify which provisions of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion were violated, to quote and explain, in which the infringement consists. It's all talk, but not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I ask and appeal to the chairman to take care and to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure and not allow abuse by representatives of opposition groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9686	If the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 95, refers to what MPs have done in this assembly, then I can only conclude that it happens from hour to time, whenever a word is asked for by the Rules of Procedure. The Chair of the National Assembly is obliged to give a word when the MP announces that he is advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. To the seriousness, personal culture and political pragmatism of the MPs, is how they will use the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This way is broad enough for the Rules of Procedure to be used and misused, and for this is the responsibility of each MP in person. There's nothing I can do but respect that Rules of Procedure and ask the MPs to respect it, along with all of us in the National Assembly. If the MP Radosavljevic is pleased, the word has a folk MP, Stevan Ž. Gudurić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9687	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if only one member of the Rules of Procedure had been broken, it wouldn't have been so terrible, it was broken more, in this debate - could the MPs who submitted the amendment speak or cannot? In Article 140, the legislator, the committees responsible, and the Government, are obliged to consider amendments submitted on the draft of the law before the meeting of the Assembly and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. We got from the government that she turned them down. Yes, it is. Then another article in 141 is told, "In the course of the legislative review, amendments that could have been submitted by the legislator, the competent committees and the government, but only if there is a need for amendments... "In this case it was not, the Government did not refuse any amendment and no correction of that Article 9 and its erasure was proposed by written means to the Rules of Procedure. Article 142 says, "The National Assembly shall decide on the amendments submitted in accordance with the order of the members of the bill, and if several amendments have been tabled to the same member of the bill, the amendment proposing to delete the provisions of that article and then the amendment proposing an amendment to the whole article shall be decided first." The third position says: "Amendments submitted by the legislator and adopted by the competent committees and the government", the committee that, the government does not, "as well as amendments adopted by the bill's legislator, the competent committees and the government, become an integral part". The minister, as an authorised representative of the motionor, did not accept the amendment, but was abolished by a member, it is not and it does not say anything in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, in addition to what is said in Article 134, paragraph 2 states: "The debate in particular takes place by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled, and by the oamands proposing the introduction of new provisions, and in the debate can take part: the applicant of the amendment, or if the amendment proposes several MPs etc." Therefore, you have violated a dozen members, Mrs. Comic, and Mr. Minister here said - the answer to that, to me and the government - yes, that Article 9 should be preserved on the contractual establishment of the tax base. That's what we heard and that's what it says here in Mr. Djelic's statement. What are we talking about here right now, who makes me crazy and who goes crazy with who? You can also vote that the country is fourth, the Japanese made a fourth watermelon, but that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9688	National MP Stevan G. Guduric spoke about the violation of members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, who were not at all in the application of this procedure for the withdrawal of members of the law. What the legislator has done under Article 137 - he has the right to withdraw the bill until the law is completed. If you want it to be interpreted, if it can withdraw the bill, it can withdraw part of that law, it can be one, it can be less, and the author said that the government is withdrawing from the bill Article 9. So, we can make a deal, do you want to vote on the injuries of the Art. 140 and 141? (Stevan Ž. Gudurić, from the place: No need, give yourself a first break to study the Rules of Procedure, you have no idea, it is a shame... ) I ask the MP to declare whether he wants to vote in breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? He doesn't want to. National MP George Mamula, violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the People's Messengers to treat each other politely in the O.R. and listen to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9689	Ambassador Branislav Ivkovic injured the Rules of Procedure by saying that the session was led to the astonishment of the assembly's MPs. I have not authorized him to speak for me, nor have the DSS MPs authorized him to speak for us. Since it's become his habit, I'm asking you to start taking care of it. Therefore, Article 99(2) and Article 101(1) of the last indent were injured. He can't be an MP without authority to speak for everyone else. That's the fifth, sixth time. Since this is true, I don't think it has to be put to the vote. (Employer Seselj asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9690	I thank the People's MP. The MP simply reminded the MPs and the National Assembly of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we all should respect. Is this a exhausted list? No, I don't. ) There is a word from the People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Joca Arsic reported earlier, according to the Parliament's secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9691	Since he's called before, I don't care about that, because you gave me your word. And what the secretary says, I don't care either. Article 137 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "The legislator has the right to withdraw the bill until the finalisation of the draft law at the National Assembly session." The government is an authorized legislator of the law. The government can pull the whole bill. Anyone who can do anything can do a part. So it's undeniable. The government can withdraw one member of the law. However, after notifying the National Assembly that it had rejected all these amendments, the government had to hold a new session, change its mind, and inform the National Assembly that it had accepted all these amendments and abolished the whole member. That's what the government had to do. It may have been a cabinet session, where such a decision was made, but then the government needs to inform us in writing. I have no objection and that the government is verbally informing us, but that Minister Djelic here says: The government held a session then and then decided to delete the member. Because Minister Djelic, as a representative of the government, has no right on behalf of the government to make a decision. There is a Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose Article 12, in Section 2, says: The Government, through its representatives, presents its views on issues on the agenda of these sessions, as well as views and explanations when examining the draft law, other regulations and general acts and other materials, which it submitted to the National Assembly. It may propose to examine a particular issue and take a position on it or to postpone the adoption of a certain act or a search of a particular issue, while the Government shall not take a position on the matter and no later than eight days. So the government's representative can't decide on behalf of the government. Only what the government has decided can he represent in the National Assembly and strive with his eloquence, with his arguments, with his act to convince the National Assembly. He can't replace the government on such a serious matter. So either it was a cabinet session where the government decided to abolish Article 9, to delete Article 9, or, if it wasn't for that session, to take a break, to hold a session, and then the Minister to inform us what was decided at the session. Maybe it was a government session. Here, I also accept an oral statement from the government, but not from your own, but from the government's statement. We don't need any paper, even though we'd normally need paper from the government. You go out here and tell me -- it was a government session that day and that day, and the government in the session, where the record was conducted, decided to delete Article 9 of the bill. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9692	National MP Vojislav Seselj warned of a violation of article 137. I'm obliged to give an explanation. So, the MP advertises a violation, assuming that some of the actions and some of the decisions prior to the declaration of the government's authorised representative have not been made. He may warn the chairman that he has allowed the government's authorised representative to speak at the National Assembly's address that the government agrees to withdraw Article 9 and that the National Assembly can vote on it. But, of course, the National Assembly cannot vote on assumptions that something has not been fulfilled before the minister, as an authorised promoter, told the speaker that the government is withdrawing the entire article 9. Would you like to vote on the violation of Rules of Procedure in Rule 137? You can plead yes or no. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: To plead with yes or no from the pay phone.) ) Please say whether you want to vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not (Glasses: No. I find that the MP does not plead either for or against. (Vojislav Seselj, from place: You are breaking the Rules of Procedure again. Ask Minister Djelic to declare whether she was a cabinet session. If it was a session, okay, if it wasn't a government session, it's not right. ) As chairman, it is clear to me what the intentions are and what decisions are made by the authorised representative of the Republic Government. As MPs to you or, some of you, it may not be clear, so I will repeat, to clarify the dilemma about whether there is a Article 9 in the bill or not. There is no longer a statement by the Government's authorised representative in the draft law. As for others, who have a different opinion or feel that they cannot do so, they will have a way to challenge the government’s decision or notification, which the government has made to the National Assembly. National MP Joca Arsic, violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Mihajlov, MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9693	Dear fellow MPs, first there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure due to the misreading of Article 137. Rules of Procedure. In Article 137, several times repeated, it clearly states: the legislator has the right to withdraw the bill until the finalisation of the draft law at the session of the Assembly. It's about the law. The minister here made it clear that he was withdrawing Article 9. The law. Article 9. The law isn't the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9694	I thank the MP for clarifying what actually happened here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9695	Furthermore, I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure by interrupting my exposure. This is about Article 149, final position. Why would it stand in Article 142: The National Assembly specifically decides on any amendment, which the legislator, the committee responsible or the Government did not accept. We see from the government's report and the report from the board that this Article 9 has not been accepted by the board. Minister Djelic has not declared himself under this Article 142, which accepts from the amendment. And it can be declared when it hears all amendments, you submit to Article 9 of this Act. Therefore, when the minister declares which amendment accepts on behalf of the government, then the assembly does not have to decide and vote on it. Therefore, it is a procedural mistake that you, either on purpose or out of ignorance, will not accept and adopt as such. It is not at all disputed, but let the minister plead which amendment of the MPs accepts. Because if you accept an unsuitable amendment, you will be in a situation like the Law on Salaries, that we must apply Article 135 because of the disagreement, which Mr. Toma Nikolic explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9696	This discussion was already under way once. To repeat that, if possible, I ask all those who wish to repeat, to end it anyway. This is for the seriousness of the work of the National Assembly. The government of the Republic of Serbia has its responsibilities. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has its responsibilities. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in the capacity of the government's authorised representative, informed the Assembly that it had withdrawn Article 9. It's a bill of law. Thus, any debate on amendments becomes unnecessary in the National Assembly. Please, let's get this debate over with. I can understand all the MPs who have prepared themselves to defend their amendments and who have prepared themselves for what should be a parliamentary point. But as for 45 minutes we have all been misusing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not doubting the imagination and creativity, as well as the ability of the MPs, you can have these discussions prepared by this member and knowledge, of course, to express yourself before the public of Serbia, in front of this assembly, and to respect what is the division of jurisdiction between the Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He has the word Mr. Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9697	I have a remark that several members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. First, I have a remark that the injured way the session is conducted. This speaker is given the right to injure the Rules of Procedure used for the rallying performance, which is not allowed. My objection goes in this direction that the chairman must warn the MPs who thus violate the Rules of Procedure and abuse the infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure, which is allowed at any time. The second thing that has introduced an additional confusion is Article 142. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3, which states that the amendment adopted by the legislator, the committee responsible and the government, becomes an integral part of the law. In this case, there was further uncertainty whether Mr Djelic withdrew a member of the law or accepted amendments that delete the member in question from the bill. If we find that amendments have been accepted to delete a specific member, any further debate is unnecessary. The National Assembly no longer decides or argues about these members. We lost almost an hour discussing whether it's good or not, whether it's done or not. Please (repeats the chairman) to hold a session a little more stringent and a little more efficient. We've been wasting an hour in the pursuit of the Rules of Procedure, completely neglecting some important things, not thinking about what we're supposed to do here, which is that today or, eventually, tomorrow we adopt this law and allow the further work of those who need to work on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9698	I respect the remarks of Parliamentarian Dejan Michaelo about the abuse of this speaker and the lack of frequent interruption and warning of speakers. I only do this with one goal, to bring a little respect to each other in the National Assembly. If there is no goodwill on all sides, there will hardly be a good atmosphere in the National Assembly. Can we close our objections to the Rules of Procedure? Does MP Dejan Mihaylov want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? I accept that the Rules of Procedure have been violated in the treatment of Members of the 95th and the rights of Members of Parliament to speak. Four times, the government's mandated representative stressed that he had withdrawn Article 9 of the law and that it was becoming immaterial to discuss amendments. I'm asking you to stop discussing this. A representative of the government has come forward. With the urge to resolve this problem in a business way, I ask you once again, and I remind you that the next amendment, too, is to Article 9. You should all get some rest. You will have the opportunity to intervene with the Rules of Procedure and the next member of the amendments to a member who does not exist. He has the word MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9699	Ladies and gentlemen, when I answered the word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it really was about time. I never do that. Please, why are we wasting so much time when there's absolutely elemental logic, for God's sake, people? If the minister, as an authorised representative of the government, said he was withdrawing Article 9, he did so because he accepted the amendment. Several MPs have submitted an amendment saying that article 9 is deleted. A colleague named Pal Shandor came out and suggested. It was enough for Mr. Secretary to withdraw Article 9 in the name of the Government. It's over. What do you want? To come out Mr. Djelic and say he accepts Amendment number 50? All right, let him come out and say he accepts Mr. Pal Shandor's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9700	He has the word Bozidar Vučurović, an intervention according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9701	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I will not speak of Article 137 or Article 142. I want to point out the flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman. Article 128, in relation to Article 101, since the beginning of this session, has been forcing the Members of Parliament to declare themselves from place. This Rules of Procedure prohibits - adopted and changed who knows how many times - the MPs speak from place. You are required to provide the People's MP with a pay phone and explain whether or not he is required to vote on the Rules of Procedure. Everything else, too, the MP should do from the pay phone. You make the Messengers of the people whisper and earn from your place, and we have lost 25 minutes. You're not being held up by a member of the 12th. The Government Act which explicitly states that the Government's representative cannot withdraw before the government's session....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9702	I ask the People's MP Bozidar Vukurovic to complete his presentation on the violation of the Rules of Procedure by saying whether he requires a vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure or not, while he is at the speaker of the National Assembly. Explain for the fourth time. It is about a completely natural and expected struggle in the National Assembly because of the fact that by the decision of the government of the Republic of Serbia's representatives -- I have no doubt -- an extremely interesting parliamentary debate on the amendments tabled. That's what this is about, and it's not about breaking the Rules of Procedure. Are we gonna end up breaking the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9703	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really ask you to put the ball down on the ground and suggest that, in accordance with Article 46, we take a break, that the Legislative Committee sits down, because there are several things that are now impossible to balance. It is quite true that the minister cannot impose legislation in principle by withdrawing one of his members when the debate takes place in particular. That thing is indisputable, and it's in the Rules of Procedure. If Mr Djelic wanted to accept the proposed solutions proposed by several MPs by amendment to Article 9 he should have said - I accept Peter Petrovic's amendment to article 9 and the matter would have been resolved two hours ago. Since the procedure has been violated, I really think that the only Legislative Committee has been measured to ensure that this thing is in line with the rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9704	The Legislative Committee has declared itself to these amendments and I ask all Members of the People who have knowledge and experience in the Assembly to know their rights, their duties, their obligations. The way the Government's representative will work is governed by the rules of the Government, the way the National Assembly will work is governed by the regulations of the National Assembly and how the regulations are applied and the regulations are applied, so that I consider your intervention under the Rules of Procedure to be non-intervention under the Rules of Procedure and I do not consider it a broken member, but by wishing that you would otherwise enter a tone into the debate, which is only taking place because the applicants of the amendment did not get the opportunity to expose their discussions and arguments. So that's the point and it doesn't say it in the Rules of Procedure. You have before you a republican government that has accepted what is the position of the opposition and the position. You don't like the government when it accepts, you don't like it when it doesn't accept, it's a little bit of a problem, but a government official once again. The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9705	As finance minister, I have to follow how much these sessions cost, and it's just amazing that there's been one procedure here for an hour, and I'm not a lawyer and I don't know the Rules of Procedure, I'm trying to teach him at every session more carefully and better. It seems to me that for our people it is simply amazing and especially on the side of the opposition to make such an obstruction an hour and a half when their request to delete a member is accepted. If I may repeat once again that I accept Mr. Pal Shandor's amendment and hope that this discussion is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9706	I ask the People's Messengers to take their seats and do not worry, for all the MPs who have asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, to discuss Article 9 in this assembly, each one will be given his word, and it would be good for everyone who seeks the word to have sufficient personal culture and respect for others to listen with silence and attention to others who seek the word. The Prime Minister has now informed the National Assembly, in a desire to end the debate over the Rules of Procedure and save the money of the people who finance this assembly, that the government is ready to accept the amendment of MP Pal Sandor. ( Bozidar Djelic: I accept all other amendments. ) The minister wanted to shorten this time of democratic struggle in the National Assembly said that the government accepted all amendments from all MPs, which were submitted to Article 9. If this decision comes to the need for a legal-technical order, I am obliged to make a proposal by Minister Djelic to accept all amendments to the conditions for it to be in the legal-technical order and in agreement with all amendments. In this case, I find that this congregation has the government it should have. Thank you, Minister. I find that this solved the problem of Article 9. MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9707	Article 28 has been broken. Rules of Procedure relating to the President of the National Assembly. You've been breaking the Rules of Procedure for almost two hours and it doesn't make any sense. Now here's the crown argument. As you have explained and accepted Djelic's presentation, this is an incredible violation of the Rules of Procedure, because Djelic comes to you twice with very different views which he says are the government's views, and the government's position is only what the government at its session determines, its position, which is recorded in the session, because the government is not incoherent but the collective body of the executive authority. Let me help you. Don't attack me for obstruction, because I'm the most constructive here. What's the solution? There are two possible solutions, two possible exits from this situation and these are the only two legal exits. To keep the government sitting to say that it deletes Article 9. It's a bill of law. That's one. The government's representative can't decide on behalf of the government. He can only represent the government in those legal frameworks established by the cabinet session, and the government has already declared that it rejects all amendments under Article 9. The second is that you of the DOS majority choose one of the amendments, you can Pal Shandor, since he's DOS, and vote. As soon as his amendment is passed, it is declassified to discuss the other amendments. It is pointless to assume what the motive of the opposition MPs is. Now they are sad opposition MPs that their amendments are being accepted. No, I don't. The procedure has to be respected. Minister Djelic here is attacking the procedure. Well, the procedure is the essence of democracy. And one more thing-- don't talk about how expensive the National Assembly is anymore. And when Hitler abolished Reichstag, one of the reasons was -- it was too expensive for a German nation in war conditions. Now, don't end democracy under the pretext that democracy is expensive. The National Assembly can never be more expensive than the Government, yet the National Assembly is a little higher authority in the system to divide power from the executive authority, or government, which is the highest authority of executive authority. And therefore, that argument is not valid here. You have to admit sometimes when you screw up, so you're looking for the right solution and a way out of it, not to keep falling off, and then you use a bunch of words to encourage that collapse. Here are the two only possible legal exits -- that the government holds a new session, to decide to delete this Article 9 from its proposal, or that you, as a majority, vote to choose one of the amendments submitted. The most natural thing is to vote on the amendment of one of your members, not the opposition member of parliament, and to resolve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9708	There's a word from MP Stevan G. Guduric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9709	I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 113 and Article 114 that they say (that I don't read it to you) that when someone comes out of the O.R., they throw a card in his pocket, when he enters the O.R., he takes the card out of his pocket and puts it in his seat. (You can play now, whatever you want - speak to the MP in the O.R. The whole time here, you gentlemen have 38 cards and 15, 16 to 18 in the O.R., in that part sitting in front of us. And at least be honest enough, when you get out, put your card in your pocket, then go outside for coffee, and when you get back, put it back where it's supposed to be. Because I could say that while we were still voting, in the beginning, the oamandmans on Article 8, Mr Budimovic violated this particular member, who says - when someone votes instead of someone else, then something happens that happens, etc. So stick to the elemental order. At least it's not hard and it doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9710	I find that MP Stevan G. Guduric warned that he noticed that some MPs do not respect Article 113 and Article 114 on identification, and I agree with that. It has been happening here since 22 January 2001, and has once been treated as the right of MPs in the framework of a parliamentary struggle, and the second time has been treated as oblivion, the third time being treated as a violation. I agree with you, I can't tell you anything else. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9711	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me remind you, when this law was adopted in principle, it counted 27 members. Right now we're in a very complicated situation. I understand, so it doesn't matter whether the minister said - one way or another, it's more important - if we don't have a member of the 9th, then the 10th becomes a member of the 9th. And we still have an amendment to a member of the 9th People's MPs, about which no one has come forward. It's an amendment number 51, which the government said would not accept. The Messengers have not spoken of him. We have a serious problem -- how do we solve this now? But in that amendment, the president must demand that the MPs be made known, and we have already said that there is no Article 9, and the amendment still exists, we need to hold a debate about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9712	If we are done reporting under the Rules of Procedure and infringing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would ask the National Assembly to listen to the proposal, which will finally resolve objections, dissatisfactions, and all that we have heard in the discussion, which concerns violations of the Rules of Procedure, because of the inability to discuss the subject itself. So, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia said in the National Assembly that, on behalf of the Government, he accepts all amendments, submitted to Article 9 of the Law. These are amendments submitted by MPs Vera Markovic, Pal Shandor, Sladjan Mijjlović, Dragan Markovic, Borislav Pelevic, Tomislav Nikolic, Bozidar Vučurović, Nebojsa Jović, Stevan Gudurić, Dragan Tomić, Dragan Todorovic, Radojko Petrovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Bozidar Vujić and Đorđe Mamula, who are proposed to delete Article 9, i.e. to delete this member and subtitle above Article 9. Given that the Government, as a representative, has accepted the removal of Article 9 and subtitles above Article 9, I find that this has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, according to Article 142. I thank the MPs of the people, especially those of the MPs who really contributed to their constructive discussion to solve the problem that was parallel. So one is the struggle in this democratic arena, to gain and exercise its right, and the other is the government's recognition to listen and respect the National Assembly. Thank you very much. On the 9th amendment with the correction, together submitted a group of MPs: Branislav Kovacevic, Teodora Vlahović, Ratimir Svirčević, Karolj Kermeci, Zivica Predojev, Zoran Bošković, Bojan Kostreš, Branislav Pomorički, Branislav Grubački, Višnja Nežić and Novica Djuraskovic. The Financial Committee accepted this amendment, with a correction, with the text of the amendment being systematised as Article 8a of the Bill's proposal, which was agreed by the Government's representative at the committee's session. Once again - so, formally, MPs: Branislav Kovačević, Teodora Vlahović, Ratimir Svirčević, Karolj Kermeci, Zivica Predojev, Zoran Bošković, Bojan Kostreš, Branislav Pomorički, Branislav Grubački, Višnja Nežić and Novica Djurasković submitted their amendment to Article 9. The Financial Committee, by adopting this amendment, with correction, has systematised the text of the amendment as a member of the 8a Bill proposal, which was agreed by the Government's representative at the meeting of the Finance Committee. The Legislative Committee considers that the proposed solution to the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Since this amendment, with a correction and a proposal from the Financial Committee, has also been accepted by the relevant committees and the Government, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, as a member of the 8a Bill's proposal. Minister Djelic wants a word, as an explanation. I hope we've all followed closely what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9713	To thank the MPs who have completed this law. What is it about-- these provisions now have the opportunity to look at the whole basics of taxation. The addition is that, if the taxpayer has multiple types of taxation, they will be viewed collectively and, instead of looking at rates only separately, and to remain in some lower ones, that they are quite high, as has already been said several times in this debate, then to look at the tax liability collectively and that there is also in these cases this strong progressiveness, so that it is neutral, and that it is not, if I may put it so, games in it -- what is the amount of taxation. I thank the MPs for this very constructive and interesting idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9714	I thank the minister. We're moving on to Article 10. There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9715	This member of the law, which is now subsequently inserted into the text, is the most impressive testimony to how much you have just violated the Rules of Procedure, because it was unconditional to conduct such a debate. It was enough to accept this amendment. It amends the preceding Article 9, because it makes no sense now to be a member of 9a or 8a, and there is no Article 9. But these things happen because you don't pay attention, because you don't understand yourself right and you don't care what the Rules of Procedure contains, what the law in the government contains. If this amendment had been accepted, and it had already been a positive response to the Legislative Committee, the government had already made a positive statement on the Committee, all this debate on Article 9 would have been declassified. You could only in your reminder to change the order, to first go these amendments that were already acceptable in the beginning and thus a whole series of other amendments are rejected in advance. They're pointless. That would have avoided that two-hour debate. I just wanted to warn you what your mistakes are leading to here and don't accuse the opposition parties of obstruction. Obstruction here is caused only by unprofessional session management.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9716	I ask the MP that if he tells me about the obstruction, to quote -- when, who and where I said -- you're guilty or not, or you're like this, when it comes to obstruction. I'm just commenting on your interventions to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The order of amendments is what it was. We solved the problem, we got a new member of the 8a, and I have no doubt that a lot of things in this assembly could have been done shorter and better, but we did how we did in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I stay in such an interpretation. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9717	In Article 10, I suggest that Article 2 be deleted. For what? If you were to remain in Article 10(2) of the Bill's proposal, the taxpayer would be in a position to sell the property to 90% of this tax, 30% in the name of capital gains, 5% in the transfer of absolute rights and 2% in agency rights. What does that mean? For example, if someone inside has got an 80 square-square apartment, which has a family, or children of a different sex, who normally get married, get married, get married, go their separate ways, and be the tenant of that apartment gets a job in Belgrade and get a 30 square-square apartment, what happens then. If he wanted to buy that apartment in Belgrade, which costs approximately 60,000 marks, he would have to pay 90% of the extra property tax, which is 54,000 marks, 30% on capital gains, which is 18,000 marks, 5% on absolute rights, which is 3,000 marks and agency services, 1,200 marks. So that's an obligation no longer worth 54,000 marks, but 76,000 marks. The difference between 60,000 marks and 76,000 marks means he has to sell another apartment to pay for that difference. Then, in that other apartment, this is what's waiting for him again, these taxes. The level of the tax base referred to in Article 10(1) of the proposal for this law has enabled the progressive taxation of those who have come into possession of the uniform values of social property, so there is no need to remain a Article 2 of this Act. This should be added that otherwise a large offer of apartments can be expected, which will cause a significant drop in their price, due to the desire of the owner of the apartments to get the money as soon as possible to pay the tax, so that no interest of 6% per month can be made in order to avoid tax debt. Finally, it is also possible to prescribe that the state should be registered as co-owner in a property for a value representing a tax liability, immediately after a tax ruling has been adopted, if the taxpayer agrees to do so, in order to avoid large costs for the sale of dwellings. Since Minister Djelic is not here, I think this is a very big failure and that this position of 2nd Article 10 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9718	Anyone else want a word? Please, MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9719	This amendment is very meaningful, because if a list of taxpayers was first established, so the tax base is determined, and the percentage of tax payments on different tax bases, then legal logic would suggest that all taxpayers are in the same position. By avoiding here first making a difference between those who got apartments by law and those who didn't get by law. No one who got more than one apartment could get by law. Provided he didn't bring back the last one when he got a new apartment. You completely ignored it and put it in a position and those who got more apartments that even by eased methodology can settle their tax obligations. What else does it matter here? If that tax base is the same for everyone, then it should be applied in the same way. Why make an exception only where there was least illegal behavior? In a more unfavorable position, one with whom there has been no violation of the law compared to one who has committed an undisputed crime. It's something that's also, from the point of view of legal logic, unbearable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9720	Anyone else want a word? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9721	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the amendment refers to the establishment of a basis we will never be able to determine, and then we apply this rate proposed here. The meaning of the amendment is related to points 10 to 19, and this is where the rate will be applied from 63% to 90%. The previous discussion and the previous amendment have shown in part what it can say in the tax solution. I am saying this because of the conditions for obtaining property based on the use of special conditions for one-time tax and in Article 8, we are talking about ways to determine the basis, where no cost is recognised at all. For example, someone got a loan from the primary show. He invested the funds in production. No one acknowledges on any basis that there is any production, but that credit is taken at a nominal amount and it serves as a basis at which the rate is applied depending on the amount of credit that will be in the dinars and will be shown in foreign exchanges, or German stamps. We come to the situation that the funds invested in production, in this case will not be recognised, although we have one part of the explanation, means we have the nominal amount of credit and the amount of credit, which was mostly less real than those costs that existed between those two stages. By applying this method of accounting, we will come to this and by applying this rate we will simply come to the point that whoever receives a loan based on a primary emission or on another basis means when it comes to amounts greater than a point 10, it can come very easily to the situation to pay back more than he had, even if he has a certain asset, even if the property cannot stand for this amount of credit. Therefore, although we have warned this member and the previous to the possibility of certain illogicalities in the making of a tax solution, it is said from this pay phone that there is no rematch when it comes to this law, this lady is laughing, she really isn't there, so let us discuss this question then. What happens to these situations, do you really think this isn't how we said it, or do you really think we should take it all, and make it up to him there because the family, aunts, aunts, all the way to swastika. Yesterday it was also mentioned and whether we should consider all this or really want to charge exactly how much extraprofit or extra profit is achieved under this law. Either we want to put someone's key, or a lock on the company, to make it impossible for them to do anything, to take away their right to do anything in the past 10 years at all, or to be a member of another political option, or, God forbid, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, this narrowing is not meant to affect everything, because this is how everything is handled, if costs are observed, and there is an attitude 2 in which it remains applied, in certain circumstances, but this way we will come into a situation where we charge someone something that has not been credited, that we charge him for something that didn't belong to him, which is not there. And when he got the loan, he invested in production, and we don't admit that he invested in production, and every production is a material thing, and it can be easily found...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9722	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9723	Just one more sentence, if it's production, it can be the production of clothing items, it can be residential construction, it can be the production of any company, anything can be seen or accountingly seduced, and it can be seen exactly, but you can also see the income resulting from that production. It can also determine the extra profit, and the loan that was returned, which is not real to the loan that was given. All can be determined and an exact number of extra profits can be obtained. In the way you predicted, it absolutely can't and I guarantee it 100%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9724	Mr Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9725	And this amendment by Dragan Tomic shows how pointless the whole law is. Why? These few last points of Article 8 relating to the amendment to Article 10 also concern cases from practices where the law has been violated, and cases from practices where there has been no violations of the law. So both criminals, and those who are not criminals, are brought into the same plane. What does that mean when it comes to point 13, when someone got a loan to build an apartment and he built a house, so that house is much bigger than the apartment, 90 square meters. I think you've adopted some amendment in that sense, how much memory it serves me. You see, it's not the same to have an apartment on Prince Michael's street and on Terraces, or in any other part of town. You set the same amounts for all of Serbia, for Knez Mihajlova Street in Belgrade, for Vlasotince and Black Treva, etc. That's what you didn't take care of. Then, look now, an employee in a company gets a loan that, for example, is in the value of a two-bedroom or three-bedroom apartment. These were always favourable loans, and if there were no abuses, these loans are welcome to a large number of employees in this country. Someone who gets a loan, enough to build a two-bedroom or three-bedroom apartment, instead of buying that apartment on the market or going through a residential cooperative, to build that apartment, he builds his own house. For the loan you get for a two-bedroom and three-bedroom apartment, you can build a house of 150 or 200 square meters, when a man builds himself a wall, so when he adds his workforce, he invests some of his money that has no record, etc., and sells some fields, too. You know, when a man builds his own apartment, it can cost him less than 500 marks a square meter. One who had to buy an apartment through a residential cooperative in the city center cost him an apartment meter of 3,000 marks, depending on the location. There's been a huge difference, in fact, a huge difference in specific cases. And the question is, is whoever used the loan to build the apartment legally got a loan, so he built a much bigger house than he was supposed to have to have, now he has something to pay any taxes on, if it's his only house and if he lives with the whole family in that house. You'd better kill him then, rather than cut him off this kind of tax, especially as you did for this item, which applies to housing loans, foresaw an unconditional tax liability of 90%. You gave everyone a discount, and you ranked everyone, with those who stole money from the primary show, from the sale of foreign exchanges in the official course, etc. You've all made a rock, and these poor people don't have any rocks. They can't pay the tax liability you're predicting. This shows that you haven't thought enough about this law, that you haven't considered all the possible cases in practice, it didn't occur to you that this law is inapplicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9726	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Tomic. For 41, against 101, the abstentions were not voted 20, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 10th amendment was also submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. The bill, not to convince you to accept that amendment, but to show you and to prove that you have done this law on purpose, that you have made certain members of this law simply by missing a photograph and to know who that member of the law refers to. An emissary throws it out of place. Now, my nephew, you've learned so much that all day you've been making up a sentence that you're going to say from place to place. If you have anything to say, come out for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9728	Mr. Vuchurovic, please continue, I ask the MPs not to interfere with the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9729	And not only have you passed that law on purpose so that in every member of the law, someone can be recognized, but you've brought it in to protect the thieves from your ranks. For example, if someone stole nine million marks, they would pay 85% of the tax. If someone stole six million marks, they'll pay 75% of the tax. (One voice: he didn't steal. That's stealing, because you claim it. Were they then such laws that made it possible or not. So, the law allowed someone to earn nine million marks and they would pay 85% of the tax, and one law allowed them to solve a housing issue in a larger square than it might be, and it should pay 90% of the tax. And indeed, this is the law of justice, according to Minister Djelic, this is not the law of law, this is the law of justice, and this is neither the law of law nor of justice. With my amendment, I tried to make something right, but your press releases it again on purpose, and it turns out that I'm advocating not to pay a tax of up to 200 square feet. It's not true, I'm saying that the tax is paid up to 200 square feet, at progressive rates, which you've proposed to Article 10, and beyond that, you're paying 90%. No, your press has been buzzing all day that Serbian Radical Party MPs are insisting not to pay taxes. That's simply not true, because we're saying that up to that square you pay at a progressive rate of 33 to 60%, and over that 90 percent. And that 90% after that is also unfair, if we take an apartment of 200 squares worth 400,000 marks. And on your scale, 400,000 marks are taxed, when it comes to your thieves, by 39%. You've really gone too far. We don't have thieves, thieves mostly sit on the left side.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9730	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? I give my word to Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9731	This amendment obviously affects the essence and that's why you react so nervously. Because your vindictiveness doesn't end, but it's already being held back by the first constitutional and legal norms to which such a legal project comes. Why don't you accept this amendment and why don't you introduce those clauses, which contained every rules on the allocation of dwellings, so that the renting right to receive apartments was accounted for on the basis of years of employment, complexity and responsibilities of work, professional training, the number of household members? Can't a single man who gets a huge apartment from the state to be taxed the same way as someone who has five children. And by this law, you mean both come under attack in the same way and they have to pay the same amount. Under this law, that's how it is. What did you think and if you were thinking, I don't know, I don't want to go into it, but it can't, it shouldn't. Of course, the SRS is against the whole law. We have already declared against the law in general, because it is anti-constitutional, and now we point individually to weakness in each member. In this article, too, there are great weaknesses, and MP Vucurovic points to one of these weaknesses. How can you explain that someone whose possible overrun to the state, according to society, is 100,000 marks, must pay 90,000 marks, so 90%, as well as the one whose overrun is a million marks? She had this rate in every serious law to be identical and to apply equally to all cases. Not to ask for exceptions to some personal affinities and on the basis of these exceptions to be cut off from the eye, as you have learned and how it might suit you. This law certainly won't be able to apply, except for some initial cases, where the tragedies will already occur. It's impossible. These, mentioning the Khrtkovci, warn me that my beautiful political memories don't have to remind me every time. I've heard about it for the first time, and I've been listening to it all day. I've registered it. It's memories I'm proud of. So there's no need to say it in particular, say something about a pay phone. The hamsters are the pride of the Serbian people. You'll see it one day and you'll understand maybe, and maybe you won't. I'm sure you won't understand anything, because if you did, you wouldn't have done what you did. Milka understands, she understands everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9732	I ask the People's Messengers not to interfere with the speaker. We're losing efficiency.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9733	Even when I run out of arguments, they come in handy. So the essence here is in Article 10, because we don't accept anything from time to time, we advise you -- if you need to survive Article 10, then it has to apply equally to everything, an identical scale to apply to all cases, and not to be restrictive in this way, to spare someone, to bypass someone, and to lock someone on the head to pass out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9734	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9735	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is bad, but he's talking about what we didn't want to talk about, but in itself it's inevitable. It speaks of responsibility for the situation in society and the fact that this law cannot still be applied and that it bypasses those who, unfortunately, are among us today. I have proposed an amendment to Article 3. The amendment was accepted and adopted by the government. In that amendment, I have defined 90 squares as something that in itself is enough for housing, and each area above 90 squares as an object of base, to which this law must be applied in accordance with the rate that is defined. Those who have suggested that instead of 90 being 200 square meters, are just trying to degrade this law and avoid the political sequences they've been having. This law has no name or last name. We didn't even want him to be like that. But, of course, this law sanctions responsibility for those who thought it was worth 180 m2 in the form of gifts, counting on one day to avoid personal responsibility. Let's make it pay. Let that be paid in accordance with the proposed tax rate. Make it 90% of the tax on area larger than 90 m2, and that area had to be defined because it is not true that there were decisions within institutions, which made such views which determine the rights of those to which the dwellings are given. Taking over power in the Republic of Serbia, we found an absolutely empty residential fund of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's not a single apartment left in the housing fund. These ministers, who were before us in the Republic Government, may be worth it, but let them pay that value. If the government has assessed that enterprises that cannot comply with their obligations to the state on a contribution, they can compensate that debt through apartments that go to individual government officials, okay, that's your decision. Finally, it is in accordance with the regulations that you then laid down. But it is our assessment that this has caused damage to society and that those who have thus achieved some benefit must pay a tax on it. When you said 200 m2, you said to pass a law that wouldn't pin down our vice presidents, our vice presidents, etc. We're telling you that you should have thought about it when you were assigning yourself apartments that look more like agricultural land in their size than housing. None of us mentioned any private property, none of us pointed to someone's property. [[Applause in the O.R.]] That's what's, in itself, inadmissible. But we say, pay taxes for what you took or, if you can't pay taxes, pay back.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9736	Right on line - Mr. Vučurović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9737	Mr. Jovanovic, it's obvious you weren't in the O.R. or you weren't listening, or either. No one here argues not to pay taxes. We advocate not to be paid in an unconstitutional manner. If someone got an apartment of 180 m2, worth 400,000 German marks, why 90% to him? If someone bought the land for 400,000 marks, it's 36%. That's the whole point. That's why we say this law has a picture. This second attitude has a picture. It's directed against political opponents. If you think that the property Casa Joseph bought worth 7 million German marks should be taxed at 78% and the apartment of 400,000 German marks with 90%, then it has nothing to do with morale or justice. It only has to do with political revenge. Nothing else. How can an apartment that costs 400,000 German marks be taxed with 90%? That's not even 400,000 German marks, it's 180,000. The property of 180,000 German marks is taxed by 90%, and 9 million property is taxed by 85%. That's justice. Law is neither. The law is completely unconstitutional. But that's not even justice. You here carry out political will, tyranny of the majority, democracy of the mob. They're granulating there, and you're saying, "Yeah, well, it's getting adopted."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9738	Mr. Vukurovic, I give you a notice under Article 101. It's the rules of procedure because of the insults.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9739	It has nothing to do with law, the Constitution, anything. It's pure revenge for political inexperience.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9740	I put Mr. Bozidar Vukurovic's amendments to the vote. For 40, against 104, no one was abstentioned, voted 21, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. If you're okay with that, I'll set a break by 3:30. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum, so we can continue our work. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Before we continue to work, only one correction of information and one additional information on the justification for the absence of individual MPs. Namely, MP Jakov Stamenkovic, I read that he was absent, but he was present. Another announcement, the president of the National Assembly, Mr. Dragan Marsicanin, is also justifiably absent. He's been away because he's been on sick leave since Tuesday, June 19th. We're on Article 10. The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Natasa Jovanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Amendment applicants are not present. Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) I put to vote amendments submitted in the same text by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Natasa Jovanovic on Article 10. For 36, against 102 abstentions, there was no vote of 17, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted this amendment. Having adopted this amendment by the Government and the Finance Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 12th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Ljubomir Mucic and ZoranD. Never mind. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9742	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to briefly explain the proposed amendment to Article 1 of this Law. I proposed in the amendment that the process of determining and charging a one-time tax should begin and by delivering a report from the Commission to the Government of Serbia to examine abuses in the area of economy and financial operations, to the competent tax authority. In the text which the Government explained not accepting this amendment really stands for me too, so I would ask, but the minister has no, what it means - the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solutions mean that the tax authority is initiating the procedure under official duty, but also at the conclusion of the commission. I really don't understand what this means, given that there are legal and tax authorities in this country, internal affairs authorities, customs and other state authorities and all individuals who can be involved in the submission of claims, i.e. the submission of tax returns. Also, another suggestion regarding this law. In Article 9, as it's written here, Article 9 is composed of 75 words with several digits, so I've really tried several times to figure out what the goal is. At the end of the amendment to Article 12, i.e. the position of Article 12, it is clear to me that what I pointed out about the amendment to Article 3 - the introduction of new conditions for taxation, i.e. for taxation on the basis of extra income and extra property, that according to the report of the Commission of the Republic of Serbia (which last explained here, Mr. Vuk Obradovic, former Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia) is a list of those who should pay taxes, and also bearing in mind Article 13 which is proposed here and those who should pay only 2/3 of the total tax liability. It is clear to me that both here and there are double and double arches and, indeed, if what Prime Minister Djelic says is true, that this is a government that is so fair, it is not clear to me that so far, and that I have no doubt about any vice-president, not one minister, not one MP, not one member of the Republic Funkconer, then why do I doubt those who have done these jobs so far? It's the same thing, and I said, about the same laws, and even today, there's a sentence in the explanation, which is that today's government is also leading to the poverty of the widest layers of the population. We were talking about wheat here, and I'm going to say raspberries. When last year all the family was bought and paid for at the average price of 43 dinars, it was about 1.90 to 2 stamps, and this year it is one brand and 30 pfenings depending on when it will be paid. And the poverty of the people -- we know from last year that the current was 3.2 times expensive. Does this mean that only the previous government has impoverished, and this current government does not do so in relation to our population? I also think that through these subsequent amendments, everything I have said to this occasion, through one system of amendments and the adoption of Article 9, or amendments to Article 9, can indeed be eliminated from further procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9743	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Mr. Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9744	This Article 12. The law to which the amendment applies would have to be changed from a aspect of legal logic and based on the argument already tabled by the MP in his amendment, and based on additional arguments. First, it cannot be prescribed by law that the procedure begins and by submitting a report to the Commission on the examination of abuses. The Commission is the working body of the Government and it submits its report exclusively to the Government, and the Government is headed by the administrative authority and the government's authority in full precision with other legal texts. The government commission's report may have as much significance as any other application. Someone reported that he didn't pay for it, that he did it, and nothing else in the legal sense. There is another nebuloza here, where customs are also said to be obliged to submit a report on all facts within the limits of its jurisdiction when it comes to certain knowledge. I think, although the amendment promoter missed it, this is an even greater lack of this member. How can the Republic law prescribe any duty of customs? Customs is exclusively the authority of the federal government and cannot give the federal unit customs any obligation. It can be the best commitment in the world, it can be very meaningful, very productive, but formally - it's legally impossible. There is no use that can be sufficient to justify a violation of formal law and constitutional order. In this case, therefore, customs duties could not be prescribed, and of course, it would be sufficient to remain the last position, in which it is said that the tax administration's competent authority, by official duty, whenever there is information, or there is reasonable doubt, indication, anything, must intervene and investigate. That's the point. So, attitude 1 or attitude 2 could not remain in this text, from the aspects of legal logic, because we have now entered into the particulars of this law, since it was not enough for you to prove that the whole law is not in accordance with the Constitution. We now prove to you that certain members do not comply with the Constitution, with very concrete arguments, which are independent of those general arguments, with which we have challenged the law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9745	The word is from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9746	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, if there is any legal initiative to come up with, then it can be imported with existing legal frameworks in such a way that it can never be applied in practice. It is true that in an orderly society, one federal unit cannot prescribe obligations to a federal authority, but we live in a country, or federal unit, which did not comply with the Constitution of the SRJ, even though it was ten years old. And today he asks us a practical question -- are we going to pass a law that we're going to apply, or are we going to cultivate something that is in itself opposed to the logic of normal life? We want to change our company. We've changed in the election, because we've affirmed the idea of change and we're not going to be hostages of an dysfunctional federal state, but we're going to change everything that we have in this operation is an obstacle. We respect the federal state, respect the authorities of the Federal Customs Administration, but at the same time we ask these authorities to behave in accordance with the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These interests are such that we believe that the authorities of the Federal Administration are obliged to notify, within eight days, of the fact that there are grounds for the application of this law, the Republic Administration of public revenue, through a communication that is regular and common, and which exists at the moment. There's nothing controversial about it or anything that could be considered a degradation of rights and laws. We cannot at this pace harmonize Republic legislation with the one found, federal, because it is in itself largely and in time burdened with daily problems, that it is not realistic to expect that it will be brought into line within a quick deadline, and we want the concrete effects of this law. As for the ways that are assumed to begin the tax procedure, we can talk about the first one, that the taxpayer himself is recognised, as all other taxpayers in this law are recognised, and that he submits a tax application. But if the taxpayer doesn't do something like that, and realistically expect that there will be those who will try to behave the way they have acted for the past ten years, through which they have fallen under the application of this law, then we must think about other models, which we will specifically apply this law and do what was our intention. So these other ways are those ways that are defined by Article 12, and it's only about the idea, which can be the way I described it today, about the idea, not the obstructions, but the obstacles to the application of this law, which then raises the intentions of those who behave in this way. Article 12 is very clear and he says that the process of determining and charging a one-time tax begins and delivers, so it does not start exclusively by delivering, but, among other things, by delivering a report to the Commission of the Government of Serbia on the examination of abuses in the area of economy and financial business, to the competent tax authority. It is true that the Commission is part of the executive government, that it was formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but there is also no logical reason why the Commission would be hampered in concrete and efficient action. So, the Commission can also file a tax application, and should file it if I am a taxpayer on something like that is not ready. There are two other positions of this member of the law, but they can't argue with anything unless the intention of those who criticise these members is to degrade the law, so that those who would otherwise be taxed are not taxed, if they are subject to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9747	The word is by Mr Dragan Tomic, as representative of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9748	Dear gentlemen, MPs, we are in the field of tax matter, and this member automatically eliminates all tax matter, all tax regulations, and what we have almost adopted here, in the Assembly. It's not the tax authority that works in any country based on reports, it's the database. So it was supposed to say that the Commission was going to deliver the data. Data, not reports. If we say - the report, then the Commission judges and judges, and the tax authority here does nothing. That's one thing. Secondly, we are on the ground, and in paragraph 4, none of the tax authorities in this country, in any of the procedures, decide to initiate the procedure to determine and collect taxes, it does not exist, but provides a tax-determination solution, and manages the tax-determination process. So there's no previous solution, so there's two solutions. This is criminal-legal matter in the field, and this is where you give authority to the authority of the administration, it violates the Administrative Procedure Act, and believe me, this is all true, whether you want to admit it or not. And I don't argue with the predecessor whether anyone will or won't, but it had to be precise. Therefore, the Commission should provide data to the competent tax authority, not a report, because through a report covering everything, even until the conclusion, the data is used to establish a base, and based on the basis, the rate is applied and a tax solution is adopted. That's the way to do it, and when it comes to attitude 4, we say, we're making a decision to initiate the procedure. We eliminate what we're saying in the previous position, so there's no whether or not it will be, the taxpayer is obliged to file a tax return. We're going to come up with a member that we have to delete, because of what it says, but this is how you run the tax administration. So this is where they're made and they're procedural, and they're legal mistakes. Mistakes were made by mixing matter from criminal law, with administrative and legal legislation. That the solution in this matter would be justly justified, and as it says in the tax procedure, that the appeal does not retain the execution, but that it would be applied and that those amendments, which speak of execution in this blasphemy (?), then we really come up with one detail, and it is not a meaningless amendment that our colleagues have offered for adoption. But obviously we won't read what we're proposing. So we're not against the application of this law, but we're finding an impossible option to apply the law. You'll find yourself in a situation where lawyers will slowly take out solutions in this process, no matter what we say. Well, well, force can do anything. It's just, when we're on the field of rights, this really can't be done like this, and the tax authorities don't know this way in their practice. It is true that tax authorities receive data from other competent authorities and it is not disputed whether the authority is local, federal or republican. It applies information that serves as a contribution to establishing a particular basis. In this case, the report cannot be used as a element for establishing a tax base, but for data from any authority. From that, the tax authority then works, determines the basis, and applies the rate to it. We talked earlier about whether it would be a good application of the basics and whether the rates would be good, and in no way could we meet in the field of tax matter. I'm very sorry the minister won't replicate what I'm saying. Please, this is a very serious part and we can't jump over this like it's about grandmothers and frogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9749	Since there are no more entries for the word, I would like to put the amendments of the People's MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Zoran D. Nikolic to vote. For 54, against 108, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 14, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs: Pal Shandor, Sladjan Mijjlović, Tomislav Nikolic, Božidar Vučurović, Bozidar Vujić, Dragan Tomić, Stevan Gudurić, Radojko Petrovic, Nebojsa Jović, Dragan Todorovic, Borislav Pelevic and Dragan Marković, as well as the MPs Borisvoje Mijatović and Velimir Simonović together, and a group of MPs: Branislav Kovačević, Teodora Vlahović, Ratimir Svirčević, Karolj Kermeci, Zivica Predojev, Zoran Bojan Boškovic, Bojan Kostreš, Branislav Pomorski, Branislav Grubački, Višna Nežić and Novica Djurasković. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP George Mamula, at the session of the Legislative Committee, gave up the amendment to Article 13(1). Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ) The word has Dragan Tomic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9750	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to Article 15(2). The law of one-time taxation. I have to read this attitude and say that we are asking for an amendment to erase this attitude. It says this: "The existence of taxation cases is determined independently of the individual positions shown by the taxpayer's accounting statements, or by another taxpayer if other facts, i.e. other evidence, indicate the reality of the accounting statement". We can't just single-handedly erase a series of laws. We can't delete the Accounting Act and say it doesn't exist. There may be errors in the accounts. These mistakes are subject to a number of authorities, from economic crime, financial police, preventive controls and all other authorities dealing with the control of financial statements. So, one of the complete materials on which the material-financial business rests, in this system, and in the previous tax laws, is absolutely accepted and most of the taxpayers in this country continue to work congratulatingly and has their actual accounting statements. It's also being controlled by the Department of Accounting and Payment. So a series of competent authorities are doing it. If we say that it does not exist, then we automatically do not recognise the existence of any work in these bodies, any of their reports, findings, opinions and accurate data. To remind you, self-authorized auditors, experts, financial officers and all others who contribute to the country's budget with their work to the fullest extent possible. And in a number of situations, we said that the work of these bodies is good, quality, etc. That's what we're talking about from this pay phone. When we mention this attitude, it was to be redefined, explained differently, and said that other data could be valid. But that's where we go to criminal-legal matter, where the avoidance of data in that part, by putting in accounting statements, is already criminal-legal matter, and then it's regulated by other regulations. Therefore, we cannot, when establishing a basis, not recognise an accounting statement. In the accounting statement, all the taxpayer's data were shown, but the costs, everything we previously pointed to, spoke and warned. So there's data that the taxpayer is a user, on any basis, of credit, and he had to prove it in his file. He had to say what he did with those funds, if he invested them in production. We're here to say that it doesn't exist. That there's a nominal amount of credit, there's no dependent costs. The nominal amount of foreign exchanges that have been invested here or there, we will not recognise any of the items. It is impossible that the Serbian economy in the past 10 years was without accounting, without documentation and all will now be done by only one commission. It's simply an impossible variant. I call upon you to listen a little bit, to have reason, to realize that in a situation like this, we can only correctly do business by following these regulations or reports (although I have warned about what the report is, and what the data is), we can put the key in the lock, ban the company's work, that it can't work and do business. So I'm asking you to come out for this pay phone and say that I'm wrong, that this is not true. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9751	The word is Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9752	In this article, the law relating to the amendment does not fully reflect the fact that there is an Accounting Act in this country, that there is a general obligation to respect it and that very severe sanctions are provided for for all economic operators who do not respect the Accounting Act. The writer of this law acts as if the Accounting Act does not exist. I understand the DOS's desire for change. The desire for change is a general desire, but it is a poor appology of change, because the appology of change means an advocate for change at all costs. Change can always be a change for the better and change for the worse. Change for the better must be well thought out, must be logical, must be smart, must be professional, changes for the better must be well designed. If we are not going to change for the better, then we can allow ourselves to give legal order, so we can go to revolutionary changes, because every misrepresentation of the existing legal order represents advocating for revolutionary change. The revolutionary changes are never good. From the French Civil Revolution to this day, there has been no revolution with positive social change, none.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9753	Mr. Seselj, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9754	I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9755	No, you're talking about change, you've talked nice, just focus on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9756	I am talking about an amendment to Article 15(2), where the existence of the Accounting Act and the obligation to carry out accounting operations strictly under that law is undermined. There's a new law here that says in detail - everything that's been stated under the existing accounting law is not applicable, it's not relevant. It's an illegal change within the legal order. If you had put the final provision here to stop the accounting law from taking effect, it would have been more legally logical. But you're trampling in an inappropriate way with an existing accounting law. You do not support what this law requires of any economic operator. It's this revolutionary change that's why I'm talking about the nature of that change, and that's what you didn't understand, which you were told... (President: But you said from the French Revolution...) )......................................................................................................... but incomprehensible. This is one of those revolutionary changes. So something's been established by the Accounting Act for decades, and now it's out of the blue. More important are experts to be hired by the Djelic Commission, than what has been established under the Accounting Act. Of course, there's a possibility of falsifying accounting statements, but it's still a felony that's being prosecuted by criminal law. Where an accounting statement is found to have been falsified, he should go to prison, not because of the fact that there are some who forge financial statements, and then no accounting statement can be considered. That's what's wrong with this law, which is about some revolutionary change. So no law exists, there's just this one, going only blindly on this. If this law is in collegiate with system laws, the team is up by system laws, if it's in collage with the Constitution, they're up by the Constitution. That's the nadal logic on which you rest this legal project. That's why this bill isn't good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9757	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. Please state by voting. For 52, there are no 109 abstentions, 17 did not vote against, of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, as well as the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments, essentially in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment in relation to Article 2 and the Committee considers that the amendment is possible in relation to Rule 3. Do the applicants want a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, in the capacity of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9758	I cannot understand that there is a Government of the Republic of Serbia and that there is a representative who is authorised to accept or reject MPs' proposals here and that none of them have understood that by deleting Article 9 some amendments later have to be accepted. This is one of those amendments. Of course, we don't have a government, we have some people who are currently dealing with certain affairs in the Republic of Serbia, but to do responsible jobs, to act like a government, we unfortunately don't have a single session of the National Assembly. When I proposed erasing Article 9, I went through the entire text of the Bill's proposal and found that by automatically accepting amendments to Article 9, not only in Article 18(3), but also in Article 19(2), it should be deleted, and now that I do not explain it because I think they have to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9759	The word is from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9760	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is true that, as a result of the amendments that we have previously adopted, we must correct in this debate individual members who have been made in accordance with the character of the law that has been proposed and adopted in principle. Mr Djelic spoke of the motives that led him to propose Article 9, and then who led him to accept the position of DOS MPs, so there is no reason not to adopt this amendment and to amend Article 18 by saying that a third position is not allowed - that it is exclusively against the solution made under the agreement of Article 9 of this law. Since there are no more Articles 9, I suggest that this amendment be in line with the new character of the law in this way. There's nothing controversial, nothing problematic, it's an amendment in line with the changes we previously supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9761	We have more amendments, not only this amendment submitted by Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Petar Jojic, but we have several other MPs who have submitted the amendment and also concern that Article 3 in Article 18 is deleted. However, what is the difference, MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Petar Jojic, in fact, submitted two amendments to the same article, which is impossible, are not allowed to submit two amendments to one member. Here I believe this amendment actually applies to Article 18, Mr. Nikolic? Do you, Mr. Nikolic, remain in your amendment to Article 18, paragraph 3? I can't do two amendments? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: I first explained to Section 3, which is related to Article 9, and on Article 2, I will explain. ) Okay, then I'll read which other MPs also suggested that Article 18 be deleted, and we'll come forward with a vote on that. So the MPs: Vera Marković, Nebojsa Jović, Slobodan Tomović, Borislav Pelevic, Ljubomir Mucic and Bozidar Vučurović and a group of MPs together: Branislav Kovačević, Teodora Vlahović, Ratomir Svirčević, Karolj Kermeci, Zivica Predojev, Zoran Boskovic, Bojan Kostreš, Branislav Pomorički, Branislav Grubački, Višnja Nezić and Novica Djurasković. The amendment therefore proposes to delete Article 18, paragraph 3, which concerns Article 9, which was deleted by accepting amendments by a representative of the Government. I ask the MPs to declare themselves by voting on this amendment, which all these MPs have submitted, which I have read. For 136, there were no abstentions, no 35 votes, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment submitted by the MPs I have read. It's also a similar situation with Article 19. ... (Vojislav Seselj: wait, let's go to paragraph 2.) You cannot submit two amendments to paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 to one member. (Vojislav Seselj: I am reporting as head of Parliament's Group on Amendment to Article 2) There is a word Mr. Seselj will explain the amendment to Article 18(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9762	You see how tolerated we, the Serbian radicals, have been, so we've seen some obvious MPs' gaps through your fingers over the amendment to item 3. It wasn't all done the way we were supposed to do business, we didn't want to keep it, we didn't want it to turn out like we were pulling a hair on four, like some people around here do. But don't now deny MPs the right to discuss other matters, which are also on the agenda. You here have accumulated too cumulatively all these amendments of the People's MPs, and those who had two attitudes and those who had one attitude, and you could put only amendments concerning only the third position. It was a mistake, but now -- that's what I thought after the mistake -- it doesn't help much in the legal sphere. I'm not getting into that. As far as the amendments to Tomislav Nikolic and Peter Jojic are concerned, it would be very important to adopt the amendment. Why? Because this is no ordinary and regular tax code. It is true that the government says in its explanation that when the law treats tax issues, usually the appeal does not delay execution. This is how tax issues are treated in almost all countries of the world, and that's basically fine. However, here is the case of a law that is not tax law in its nature. This is by its nature a criminal law and it's retroactive. Too large are the amounts the state will force to charge under the provisions of this law. Here, if the appeal is passed, they won't have anyone to hand it to, as many will exhale before they welcome the decision in the appeal procedure. For example, take one company in the social, state, private sector and establish that company according to all those basics a bunch of obligations. That'll be tens of millions. Such drastic examples are always used rightly when trying to prove the illogicalness and unsustainability of a particular provision. It may seem a bit comical now, but it's the logical thread, which one drastic example shows with the essence of the legal norm. So someone who comes into a situation to pay a huge tax under this law, e.g. A social enterprise, it can actually run out of all assets, it can forget the factory, the private company can lose its entire company, it can sell machines for a while, because none of these, which will be required by law to pay large amounts, I'm convinced they won't have any cash at their disposal. Cash at the disposal of criminals, no one else. Where there are large amounts comes right up to the sale of property, because the tax enforcer, who has the right under the basic tax law to enter people's houses at night, comes in nice and says - did you pay, did you not, prey. What's being taken is going to public auction, for sale. Once it is done, when the company is destroyed, it is not worth what the Republic Public Income Administration's appeal procedure to assess that the complaint is appropriate, justified, and said - the first-degree solution is being modified. It's not worth the change of the first degree solution, if that solution has no one to hand it to, if that taxpayer, who's been taken too far, has been exhaled. This isn't about people, individuals, but first of all, businesses, companies, and for them, the appeal doesn't delay the execution. A company that can't pay for money goes to her estate. Under this law, all companies, both state and social and private, are even. It doesn't make any difference. Legal faces are even with physical faces. And there's no difference. Therefore, in this case, where the alleged tax liability is cumulatively calculated for 12 years, where the amount will always be very, very large, when this provision would be changed and the standard provision in the legal order would accept that the complaint would delay the execution, at least in the first appeal instance, when it is filed, therefore in a regular two-stage procedure, this would already mean a certain relief for taxpayers. On the other hand, from saying the tax obligation under this law to charging it would certainly take a somewhat longer period and for this reason it would be good for the appeal to delay the execution, that whoever comes into the scope of this law as a taxpayer has a little more time to eventually raise money. A smart country that wants to save taxpayers gives them a slightly larger time range. The one who wants to hit them right in the head and kill them, then has to think about who they're gonna charge taxes from. You know, and this government was in a situation where, for some of the tax obligations of the past, it had to determine payment in wars for a long period of time. Now you've got cab drivers coming out, and you're gonna have to give them a break...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9763	Mr. Seselj, time's up. He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9764	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is true that this is a special law, but it is exclusive in the subject of taxation, not in the way in which this taxation is done. Since the usual tax practice is that the appeal does not delay execution, there is no reason for this practice to change in this exclusive situation. Therefore, there are second-degree court cases, which will discuss the validity of decisions of the Republic Public Revenue Administration. The state must take care of the credibility of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, because just as the Ministry of Finance today will have to find funds, in order to return the media being punished under the Information Act, and some future state will have to take account, and the Republic Public Revenue Administration on the situation in which it will have to repay the funds if this law is wrongly applied. But just because he's special doesn't mean he has to use some special technology. He is only special in the subject of taxation, not according to the way it is done and there should be no precedent. Because the tax system rests on the tax authority's right to charge the tax immediately, and then to keep the unsatisfactory one fighting for his rights before the court. What would happen now if all those who are to pay taxes on this basis filed a complaint, started a administrative dispute and for the next five years led by this administrative dispute? Would that be an example for every citizen to file a complaint about the tax authority's decision and not pay taxes in Serbia? It can't and that's why we won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9765	He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9766	You messed up a little Rules of Procedure, you broke it, because it was pointless to have such a discussion. I'm not going to suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure right now. The government's argument is unacceptable that the tax should be charged immediately and that the appeal does not delay the execution of the solution by seeking analogy with regular tax laws which are blamed for the tax system of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia. This isn't tax law. This law ceases to apply the day it enters into force. It's not in the tax system. It's not a permanent obligation. There is no one who has to pay the tax, so that every year a new solution is issued to him. This is a one-time tax, this is a whole new procedure. What's going on? Why don't we let the citizens lead the dispute in front of the Supreme Court? What kind of state gives a new commitment to a citizen and says, "You'll have two degree protection from the Republic Administration of Public Revenue and the Supreme Court, but you'll pay first?" This isn't land, this isn't property, this isn't real estate. This is something that happened, for which people first need to get the strength to pay, most likely by selling property. When he leads the dispute before the Supreme Court, if that dispute lasts for two or three years, then a man can die. What if there's no heir? You don't care! You don't mean the rights of an individual, you don't see a man in any law you make. You just see a monopoly of state forces, a monopoly of state physical forces, and you're just looking at how much money you're missing to cover the terrible costs of this year's budget. You're looking to see if it gets there, possibly, before any donations, because you're a coat by the end of this month. What you finance, finance, and since the end of the month or next month, there is nothing to finance the state from, because the indicators published by your statistical institutions indicate that there is no production in Serbia. We have experienced for the first time since I have been monitoring this data, that Montenegro has a positive growth rate of industrial production, and Serbia has a negative one. The Duke beats us for five index points.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9767	Mr. Nikolic, I give you a notice under Article 101, because you are not sticking to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9768	I can't let you citizens settle the register as much as you want and when you want, but only when it's in accordance with their obligations and their rights. I never told anyone he was a thief before I saw a judicial verdict that he was a thief. Only you can do that because you're from DOS. You can also make judgments, and to condemn them, you can insult anyone. I get a warning because I'm out of time in 10 seconds, and you're talking about thieves here and you don't get any warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9769	You didn't get a warning because you overstepped time, but because you were talking past the subject. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will now vote on an amendment relating to Article 18(2). Although we just voted on attitude 3, this position 2 has nothing to do with Article 9. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 56, against 105, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 15, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Amendment MPs Vera Marković, Borislav Pelevic, Dragan Tomić, Nebojsa Jović, Ljubomir Mucic, Tomislav Nikolic, Božidar Vučurović and a group of MPs together: Branislav Kovačević, Teodora Vlahović, Ratimir Svirčević, Karolj Kermeci, Zivica Predojev, Zoran Bošković, Bojan Kostreš, Branislav Pomorički, Branislav Grubački, Višnja Nežić and Novica Đurasković submitted amendments to the same text. This amendment to Article 19 proposes to delete Article 2. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, with the adoption of this amendment conditioned by the adoption of amendments submitted to Article 9. A bill proposing to delete that member, or amendment proposing to amend that member, which has been tabled by a group of Members of Parliament. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9770	In this article 19, there is something that needs to be deleted automatically. That's attitude 2. That's not what I'd like to talk about, I'd like to talk about attitude one and the entire amendment tabled by the MPs. There's a lot of things here that are incorrectly interpreted and misplaced. It is necessary to distinguish the appeal procedure from the court case. This applies only to court proceedings. An administrative dispute has been allowed before the Supreme Court. The administrative dispute is not based on the complaint but on the complaint, and the complaint is filed only to the second-degree authority of the administration, the tax administration. The problem here is that the regional unit of the Republic Administration of Public Revenue makes a solution, makes a commitment solution and immediately charges. An appeal shall be made within 8 days of the Republic's administration. You're not patient enough to wait eight days, so in three days, the Republic Public Revenue Administration says a transparent solution is being confirmed. This is not about any five-year litigation, and there are no administrative disputes of five years, because there is no main debate, but a lawsuit is filed, a major Supreme Court is appointed to rule immediately. It's within a month of the longest. You are not patient enough to await the appeal not at the court, but at the authority of the administration within 8 days in which the appeal is filed for a first-degree settlement. The Republic Public Revenue Administration may confirm a solution within three days. It's 11 days. What's the rush if it's 11 days? Theoretically, it could be 15 or 30 days. This is not about a court case, but about a regular procedure in the most dangerous administrative procedure. In the administrative procedure, in principle, nothing should lead to a situation in which the appeal does not delay the execution. There's still a precedent here. We have legal violations. And it's a kind of administrative procedure. And there appeal may not delay execution, but sometimes it can, sometimes it doesn't. Here, in any case, the appeal does not delay execution. This is somewhat more difficult than a procedure in which legal punishment is imposed. One more thing. You have completely illegally returned the money to the media who have been punished under the Information Act, the former information law. Because of this illegal procedure, someone will have to answer eventually, but let's leave it for the future. It doesn't matter. No matter how restrictive the Information Act was, no matter how drastic you seem, no one has been retroactively punished under the Information Act. Everyone knew in advance what the legal provisions were, and they were told there if you announced the slander of so much and so much punishment, so whoever loves to have a choice. So anyone who had been slandered knew in advance that this slander would be punished by dragonish fine. No one here knew in advance that one day it would occur to you that you would pass a law 12 years ago that would sanction certain things, which were not premeditated as a subject of taxation, because you called the law so wrongly, or as the subject of punishment. That's the point. That very retroactivity is the reason more for the appeal procedure to delay execution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9771	Dragan Tomic, as representative of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9772	The honourable MPs, and at the time we received materials for this session of the Assembly, were absolutely evident from the first reading of the Bill's proposal that a series of details of this law, where almost all of the political parties were giving amendments, would show that these amendments were justified, as was the case with this Article 19, concerning the management of the administrative dispute, and that, in some ways, if there is evidence and documentation, all that is necessary to justify their claim, that he is right. For this very reason, when it comes to the position of the 2nd law, that the administrative dispute is not allowed, I am now seriously doubting the reasons of the government, in what was happening these days in terms of Articles 9, 18 and 19, what was actually happening here. I have the impression, no matter how we're all in a certain way, that this isn't going to be good, that there's even some civil and constitutional rights in Serbia, I have the impression that we didn't want to hear it, as if the old law -- the cadium is suing you, the cadiya -- had returned to the 21st century and 2001, and it seems to me that we left it behind a long time ago. Throughout history, we have seen that time as a time that was not good for the Serbian people, and today it comes back to us through these legal proposals. I honestly doubt it, and I haven't said so far, that it's the honest intention of the promoter that through this legal proposal everyone who's come up with extra property in some of the ways that are predicted here, these twenty points. Therefore, I think it is absolutely meaningful that we all make one effort together now, regardless of the government's position and the Committee's position on this matter, although we on committees have commented on this same way and said that these amendments are precisely meaningful, that they should be adopted regardless of the political groups, parties, individual thinking, were just saying that not all MPs could be certain rights established by other legal acts, taken away by one back specialissance. I therefore call on all of us to adopt together these amendments proposed by the representatives of all policy options and that definitely on this subject whether anyone has the right to complain, whether anyone has the right to conduct a administrative dispute - he has and certainly has, and by a series of legal regulations it is possible, allowed to prove in some procedure that he was right and to bring the documentation, deliver that his right has been legally valid and that the Constitution has guaranteed him. We've come all the way here to the foundations of constitutionality and the collapse of constitutionality in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9773	The word is given by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9774	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, given the changes arising from the removal of Article 9, it is necessary to accept this amendment which deletes the second position of Article 19, which says that in the case referred to in Article 18(3) of this Law the administrative dispute is not permitted. This is the logical consequence of the changes we have made as MPs. I would briefly only comment on the reasons why the Ministry of Finance has returned the financial resources that have been recovered by applying the Information Act on the name of criminal penalties through criminal proceedings conducted before criminal courts, taken. By decision of the Federal Constitutional Court to which the law and all that stemmed from its application was defined as anti-constitutional, the Republic government was obliged to return the funds mentioned. As for the retroactiveness of the law, it is true that there are not many examples of this retroactivity, but the very mention of the Information Act and its first application are a concrete example of retroactivity. Let the media and journalists themselves explain the situation they were in, it's not good when politicians do it. We have expressed our political position through the intrusion of the Information Act. Unfortunately, Mr. Slavko Curuvija is not in a position to say what I am as a politician, since there is no one here who could do it for me. The first sentence under the Information Law was issued by the "European" list for texts published and printed four days before the law came into force. Mr. Curuvia's fate is tragic and familiar to you, but I was obliged to look back on that kind of inaccuracy. I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment, because it harmonizes this law with the changes that we have previously made.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9775	I put to the vote on the amendment tabled in the same text by those MPs on Article 19. On the contrary, there were no abstentions, no 27 votes, of a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 20th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 20, in the most direct and immediate manner, the third basis for doubt is removed, and the third motive for this same suspicion brought by this legislative project to many MPs, especially with us by the Serbian Radical Party MPs. The fact is that the idea of being run by the legislator should be welcomed is that, in some ways, those who were privileged to be taxed should be subject to sanctions imposed on our state, under the conditions of the blockades, when 90% of the population, and more, barely survived, by any of those who were extremely rich. The fact is also that DOS is not able to do it through official institutions, and we have them, through legislation or through all the competent ministries, the fact is that DOS only thinks that it can do it through this field specialis, although I have argued that I remain in that belief that it is a purely marketing, media and political trick for possible new elections. The fact is that, if nothing else, this law will be approved by their voters, and perhaps others, and they will say, thank God, from October 5th, here's finally something, which is why DOS says it will change. But there's always a rabbit in the other bush. The fact is that this National Assembly has accepted amendments by MPs, including SRS MPs, to delete the government's proposal in Article 9 indicating a possible settlement, means the first basis for doubt. The fact is that this National Assembly, the merits of the MPs of the SRS, has removed other basics, and these are bonities. Now we come to the point of removing the third base. If the government had an expert, and I doubt it is, we expect more from the MPs, then the third basis should be removed, and the third basis says that this tax can be paid in more war, and at the most three, and that whoever comes after the coup of this law will be sanctioned, apply for more war, the competent authority will decide on that and that third war will be no later than six months after the new solution is made. Here, really, the basis for a new suspicion. It will be possible to negotiate when a solution will be made to make the deadlines bigger, to go as far as possible, that the inflation that you are going to do is worth it, and the obvious proof that you are not here to raise funds, to solve certain social cases, but this field specialis is just one media trick for you. Moreover, in the light of this amendment, and I will be free to read it, I wrote: "The tax debtor under the single tax law is making extra income and extra property, using special benefits, and the payment of taxes in multiple wars is a new special advantage, which, in other types of tax, taxpayers do not have, and taxpayers, based on the law mentioned above, do not need to be particularly rewarded." But knowing what DOS is, and DOS is the worst, I believe you will not listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9777	Mr. Vujic, I give you a warning for misbehaving. Well, please let us be aware once that we're really here to run some serious state affairs. You go out to discuss the amendment and abuse the pay phone to offend someone. I really can't understand that. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He has the word Mr. Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9778	You again give a warning to the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic, because of his statement that DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9779	What member, Mr. Seselj? What member did I hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9780	Find yourself a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9781	You don't have to, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9782	By which you gave the warning, by that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9783	On the basis of article 101, I said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9784	Well, he didn't make an insult, and that's what Article 101 predicts, if he was insultingly expressing himself. He didn't take offense. Yesterday I taught you - when you say - DOS is the worst - it's no offense, it's a score. And whether it's true or not, we think it's true, and you think it's not, it doesn't matter. But on the criteria of truth, I will refer to your former coalition partner, SPO, and their newspaper "Serbian Word". The DOS was formed in their headquarters. They say today that you are the worst, and you punish the Messenger of the people, you give him a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9785	Well, okay, but he's able to say that about a pay phone. I won't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9786	It's an assessment, you can't forbid him to say DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9787	Mr. Seselj, if any MP comes out and says the SRS is the worst, I will also give him a warning and I believe there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone still answering for a word under this amendment? He has the word Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9788	First, I'd like to remind you not to give anyone a warning if he says the SRS is the worst. You can only give a warning if some DOS guy says the SRS is the best, that would be an insult to us. Let's get back to the amendment and to Article 20 of this law. What's the matter? Don't, this is my time, and you're holding back. I said nice - if some DOS guy says the SRS is the best, then give him a warning, because it would be an insult to us. If they say it's the worst SRS, know we're happy about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9789	That's why you keep telling us, giving us compliments, then so I understand, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9790	That's right, that's right. Thank you for understanding, but don't count me that minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9791	I won't count on you, please, just relax and talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9792	How can a man in front of such an attractive and beautiful lady be relaxed? He can't. As far as this Article 20 is concerned, it would be very important to take this member and the amendments that have been submitted to him seriously, because these amendments point to the grotesqueness of this member as well. You see, as much as this law has been written -- I'm going to mention two more possible cases from practice. That someone who comes under the influence of this law has an example. 300-400 thousand marks of old foreign currency savings, he can't use that old foreign currency savings to pay off his obligation under this law. So someone... (some of you are gone, I've heard such a voice from your sector, you know, you haven't tried to earn, maybe it's a breakthrough of the workplace, or something else, I can't get into it, but what's at the price, always better gets in the market),... Now -- the old foreign savings date back to 1990 -- who has several hundred thousand marks of old foreign currency savings, can't pay this obligation, can take 300 or 400 marks this year. So that's what's left of him, and that's where his property's being sold out. Or another case, which is inapplicable in practice -- how can this be charged by the man who lives in that apartment, who came under the influence of the law, and there's no other apartment? How can the execution be done? To run off to the street? He can't. In the court proceedings, the only way to get rid of the street is to know how much the minimum needs to be provided is to provide housing space for members of the household. It can't be done. The law says (and what there is with you and lawyers who don't know the law, of course, it's no wonder, because if they knew the law, they wouldn't enter DOS) -- now, these are two cases from practice, where the law can't be applied. What can you do, set up a mortgage on the apartment, or on the house, or build a house and a house on the inside, and leave it in one piece to live, and the other part to try to sell, which will also be difficult to succeed. There's one minute that no court procedure can deny a man. And the third thing, which is most important -- one of the basic constitutional principles is that laws can only be retroactively applied if it is in favour of the one they apply to. If that's better for him, only then can the law be retroactively applied. If the law which is retroactively applied contains a stricter provision than that to which it applies, it cannot be applied because only the laws applicable at the time of a situation in which the law is applied can apply. All civilized countries of the world adhere to this legal principle. He is also prescribed by our Republic and federal constitution. That's what you've got for punishment. Only a milder sentence can be imposed under the new law retroactively, and cannot be stricter. Now, that's the point. And you, by the principle of retroactiveness, can impose a provision to punish anyone who sat down 40 years ago, or anyone who had survived 35 years ago, or anyone who smelled of mouth, or anyone who is not handsome by DOS criteria, or anyone who didn't get married until 30, or anyone or this. It is pointless to pass laws retroactively, except when citizens are relieved of some obligation. Only then can the law be retroactively applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9793	Since there are no more entries for the word, I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. For 50, against 101, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 23, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijlovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the solution proposed in the amendment of the MP legally possible. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9794	By reading the amendments, I found that the MP you mentioned earlier and whose amendment was accepted by the Government was working in a similar manner of matter that I was interested in in in Section 3, which is the solution to whether or not the taxpayer would be authorised to pay the war tax. The legislator formulated this as a solution to the ratei tax payment so that, in any case, the first-degree body would decide that the tax could be paid to the wars. Here I added the words - at the request, so a member should read - a solution to the request for payment of taxes on wars is made etc. And you've adopted an amendment that says, a solution that adopts a request or a solution that rejects a tax claim. I think it was a bit more hornet than my amendment, but now what's done is done. I suppose most of us have asked for a buckle in our amendments, that you then wrote amendments that the government can accept, because this government is ashamed to accept amendments of MPs from opposition, parties and thus try to bridge those bad solutions from laws that do not penetrate the very core of matter. That's why you didn't deal with the amendments that tell you that the law was unconstitutional, that it would fall in the Constitutional Court. You see, the Federal Constitutional Court has already begun to deal with the matter of the Republic's legislation, so we find out that he has brought down the Republic Information Act. This tells us that we will need all our objections to almost all the laws that you've passed in this conference, to refer to the federal constitutional court, unless you tear down our country tomorrow. Anything in this country is possible. Political parties are fighting and immediately say there is no federal state from tomorrow. It's as if it's their grandmother's, as if it's their front, as if they're allowed to talk about a country where political parties can argue, to settle, to form and break coalitions, and you're constantly threatening us here -- or this will be adopted, or the state will disappear, or this will be adopted and... (Glasses: Theme.) Did I ask you the same question? If I'm so interesting to you... She doesn't have the privilege. Neda has the right to yell - the subject, because she knows what this law is and what I am solving with this amendment. So I think you should be more serious about the legislative matter. You must not allow yourself to make this many mistakes in making one bill. I would very much like to see the signature of the Republic Legislative Secretary on this bill, so we know that those who fly from abroad, if they don't know our Constitution and our laws, who tricked them into passing laws like this. For example, the republican secretary of legislation, which should have long since been removed because of so many failures, leads the parliamentary majority into great error and big troubles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9795	Anyone else want a word by amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9796	This amendment that was adopted may have improved the text a little bit. Tomislav Nikolic's amendment would improve the text more. However, when it comes to the amendment and the member it refers to, I find the most problematic this eight-day deadline. One who is required under the law to apply or apply or as it is already called, it was once called applying, that his tax return, the form is not relevant, and he is able to submit this as a first-degree body to resolve it within eight days, if he has to verify it, and it is understood that he has to verify it. There were about 19 or 20 bases he had to check on. It's impossible for a man to get those checks done, especially for a legal person, for a social, state or private firm. Imagine now in Belgrade where this law will apply the most. Keep in mind how many employees there are in the public income management departments and among them how many employees are able to do this job. Because, don't forget, it's one of the services where most of the relationships have been employed over the past few years, because they've always been good wages and a lot of incompetent employees. Now, when regular taxes are charged, the deadline for submission of tax returns is from 1 January to 28 February or 31 March. It's probably March. Three months is the deadline for filing tax returns for something that is constantly, normally, repeated every year. There may be some changes but mostly, not particularly large ones. There's a three-month deadline, there's a much shorter deadline. When a regular tax application is submitted, then the UJP area unit has almost unlimited time at its disposal. Then they collect it all together and look at it, so they send solutions, so those solutions contain the possibility of paying in wars, so mostly over the year, that tax is paid, and it's common to be able to pay in four wars. It's all kind of quick here, and it's impossible to implement in practice. If 10, 20 or 100 taxpayers are found on some area unit under this law, it's absolutely impossible for all these checks to be carried out. Then what does that mean? That whoever wrote this law doesn't plan to do all the checking. He has in advance a list of those who need to be targeted, sanctioned, destroyed, and for others, as reported, so they will be accepted, without checking or won't pay attention to whether they have reported or not. It's impossible to implement this differently. Therefore, both this Article 20 and the amendments submitted to it are further evidence that this law is not only in collegiate with the constitutional system, with legal order, but is in practice inapplicable. A law that is practically inapplicable, it's a senseless law. As senseless, the law must be removed from legal traffic. You know what this law reminds us of? It reminds me of some legal provision that all people should walk exclusively on their hands. Maybe a few, but it can't be long. In principle, the law is inapplicable in practice. Or if someone were to now prescribe that all people must be more than one foot and 80 feet tall. It's impossible. Or, maybe, if everyone had to be less than a meter and 60, it's impossible to apply. So the law is pointless. What is impossible to apply, which is pointless already in the beginning, which is clear to all lawyers that it is pointless, must not even try to apply in practice. Whoever tries, burns on the first case. Then what happens is the state is baffled. Every state that makes sense laws blasphemes itself, primarily its legislative body, parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9797	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to Article 20, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 49, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 20, out of a total of 173 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The word has a minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9798	A few specs and details. As far as the application is concerned, we have in our practice in terms of corporate tax and registration must be delivered to the tax administration eight days after handing over the final bill. So it's not the only case he's turning himself in. We can see it in some way in the final account for the last 11 years, for some people, and they know what that data is and they can do it very quickly and hand it over. Rock's not a problem. Another thing, as far as equipping the Republic Public Revenue Administration is concerned, it is obvious that it is waiting for the adoption of this law to start working, but preparations have already begun, so that there are people in units who are trained and who can apply this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9799	National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9800	Dear Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that would limit the application of this law. The amendment reads this way: "The application of this law will last until 30 June 2002." Why did I submit this amendment? In fact, I think the whole content of the law points to the need to limit the time of its application, and we have also heard from many participants in the preceding days, that it is an extraordinary law, an extraordinary tax, a specific law, a unique law, about a single kind of back specialis, which all points out that such a law should have a certain deadline. In a certain way, Mr. Minister confirmed it when he explained the Bill's proposal the other day, when he said the law would be passed for 2001, that it would not be present next year, although, for the sake of truth, he said that the application of this law would not be extended for the next year and for that year, which does not mean that it will not be extended until it is applied. I think there's a lot of demagogy in this sentence below. If the offences were committed in the years preceding the adoption of this law and you, conditionally speaking, are not violations but privileges are the basis for determining a one-time tax, I see no reason to repeat it in any future period. I don't believe that the existing government will be causing itself certain problems that way. The second thing, in the law, some members set time limits and relate to certain actions of taxpayers, i.e. those of people and legal persons who pay that one-off tax on extra income and extra property. Namely, the obligation of taxpayers, i.e. legal persons, to submit a tax application to the competent authority within 30 days of the date of adoption of this law, is laid down, and the procedure for determining and charging a one-time tax is begun and the corresponding report of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is submitted. It is assumed that the report will not be completed or will be completed during a little longer period, and then there is the tax authority which has found that it is making a decision to initiate the procedure and to determine and collect the tax within eight days of receiving the report, starting certain actions and legal or natural persons are ordered to submit a tax application within 15 days, and a deadline of appeal by the Public Revenue Administration has also been established, which does not delay that enforcement. It is also set a time limit for paying a one-time tax, even if the tax is paid in wars, within six months of the date of maturity of this tax. All these elements in my opinion point to the need to accept this amendment. I think that, within the time frame of change of this law, some of the negative consequences that this law has in itself can be respected and corrected. It's about retroactivity, it's also about some areas that aren't the subject of this law. In fact, although the legislator has established 19 grounds for determining a single tax, we have already talked about avoiding the area of the gray economy, probably not by accident. So, in my opinion, there are a lot of assumptions, there are a lot of subjective estimates. Certain criteria are also politically motivated and this is all about the essence, the law that it is politically by the crater and by limiting its application would avoid possible calculations of the political character and the application of this law indefinitely. For all these reasons, and there are probably more, I mentioned just some, I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9801	MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9802	The amendment of Zarko Obradovic is very interesting, only raises questions as to why he wants the application to last until 30.6.2002. It would be much more logical to put it in one provision here that the application of the law lasts until the Constitutional Court declares it unconstitutional. You know why? For the sake of descendants, not to think of some future people, who are reading stenograms from these sessions and official messengers, that we were all stupid, so we didn't know what the Assembly was adopting, but that we knew that this was against the constitution, but now it's being adopted until the Constitutional Court's decision, so we know it will last until the Constitutional Court declares it unconstitutional. That is, in my opinion, most appropriate, because this law cannot survive in legal traffic and cannot remain an integral part of the legal order. Absolutely can't, if there's constitutionality and legality in this country. If this fundamental dictatorship turns into a formal dictatorship, then all kinds of laws can be passed, then there are no laws necessary, they can be decrete or made public, they can be published. Or neither should you, simply the government should hunt people in the streets, bring them in, which is why guilt, it's not known in advance, it'll be known when they're brought in, everyone will talk for something, everyone will be proven guilty of something. There's no authority that can't prove to every citizen that he's guilty of anything. He must be guilty of something, so he shouldn't even be questioned. He can punish him immediately and tell him, such as Turkish age, fugitives or cadmies, you know what you're guilty of.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9803	He has the word Minister Mr. Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9804	Just two things. First, as far as this proposed amendment is concerned, it is interesting to hear from the opposition that this law is politically motivated and at the same time that there should be a surprise, and on the other hand, when it comes to these principles in some detail, we see that almost all amendments are there to mitigate the effects of this tax, to reduce the tax base and to add some costs to reduce what needs to be taxed. Not everything, but there's a lot in that direction. Since this is a one-time tax, he will not report to the budget next year. It also cannot be separated from the past in five, six or seven years. It has to be done quickly. The operational plans are even more ambitious than the MP said, which is that a good part of the work has been done this calendar year. But on the other hand, it seems inappropriate to give a date, so that some people are very tightly held to that magic 1.7 next year, extending... And get some kind of amnesty. I'm sorry, what is found to be a tax base, this procedure must last until the moment until justice comes, which is measured here. As for constitutionality, all countries are and are numerous and are not developed in a legal sense and were aware of what was voted for because they had emergency situations. Of course, our legislative system shouldn't have a dozen laws, like this one, in the light of retroactivity. This law is about making things right from the past. That's what the entire people expect from us, all the polls, all the conversations on the street and in the family circle suggest that more than 80 to 90% of our citizens support this law and this idea. If we look at what the opposition is doing, it supports the principle, but the surprise is that as soon as it comes to detail, it tries to mitigate the effects of this law. [[The Cheschael is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9805	He has the word MP Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9806	Dear Mr. Djelic, perhaps the citizens really until the beginning of this debate, as we, the Socialists, supported the idea and the law in general, until they read it and heard this three-day debate. Believe me, there are those who are and how disappointed they are because they understand what this is about. Your law of this country is making a bloody avalanche, Eve Andric. They're all guilty, but they don't know why they're guilty. But in that guilt, Mr. Djelic, you and your DOS government are very selective. You're looking for political inexperiences here, which you see as political enemies, and there are no members and sponsors of yours, who have made themselves rich in pure crime. Because you're not asking where someone to buy an apartment for 300,000 marks, but you're chasing someone who worked fair and square and legally got an apartment and bought it by law. Therefore, you go selectively to your politically inadequate opponents and that is the essence of this law. That's what this is about. You can freely reply, I am glad and prove that it is not true, prove that your law does not include those who have invested a great deal of money in a variety of goods, from businesses, apartments, houses. You don't catch them. You're just saying, if someone built a 1,500-square-square-square-square-square-square-house, I'll charge him for that 300-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s. You're just chasing the institutional framework of a possible extra profit and taxing it. In your law, you have shown that you have no sense of how the state works. You didn't understand what the stock reserve meant. Well, is the Apple Trading Company now paying taxes because of the Serbian government's orders of supplies, getting oil, sugar and flour to prevent their plasma speculators, who have raised prices, from making artificial shortages. You're not making a difference that someone who took the money and placed it in export, he had to have expenses. Jugopetrol took six dinar stamps, he did, but he sold gasoline and diesel at a price, approved by the Serbian government and kept prices low. The power system did get a six dinar mark, but it wasn't expensive electricity, like you made people pay the difference of 15-20,000. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia systematically led social policy and did not allow such tax rates. You were talking about facts today. Do you know what a fact is? The fact is that the mark course is 30 dinars, you're right, but the fact is that prices, since you came to power, are four to five, six times bigger not only in dinars, but they're bigger even in stamps. Because the real mark is 45-50 dinars and you today with that course are essentially citizens who don't have money, you take foreign exchanges and you give them dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9807	I ask the MPs to remember to discuss the amendment to Article 20, which was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The Republic was requested by MP Vojislav Seselj. Because of the way you are mentioned in the presentation of Mr. Djelic, insulting or poorly interpreted. Badly interpreted... I'd like you to understand, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9808	Bozidar Djelic attacked the opposition in such a way this morning, and now he is attacking us for allegedly trying to mitigate the provisions of this law. Neither of them are true. Bozidar Djelic, the population was on October 5th and on the pursuit of the National Bank, the Federal Customs Administration and a whole series of other institutions, including Galenika. It's populism. What does that mean? It's mass manipulation. The masses have been manipulated, of course and bitter, and you have achieved a certain political goal. You've spent the revolution, because the populists lead to revolutions, any communist, fascist, such, such as that, there are many. I'm not going to go into the analysis of your revolution right now, because your revolution is still going. Your revolution still needs to express itself. We Serbian radicals are not at all asking for the mitigation of the provisions of this law. We are the only ones here who insist on the prosecution of all those who have violated the law and have made a fortune on the basis of violations of the law. We insist on the criminal prosecution of those who have unwittingly made them rich. And we use this debate to prove your incompetence, to look for weak points in this law. We've been talking about weak points in general while there's been a debate in principle, and now we're looking for individual weak points for you. It's not like we like politicians in the interest of you making good laws. We are glad that you are coming to the congregation with bad laws, for God forbid you bring good laws, we would not have to go out in the next election. You're making extremely bad laws, surprisingly bad laws, and for me who had no illusions about the nature of the DOS coalition and your authority. And to me, it's surprisingly bad laws. I expected, however, something more polite, somewhat more appropriate to the principles of the modern legal order. I figured there were some anti-communist dissidents in that DOS who, at least verbally, have been pushing for democratic principles for decades, for freedom, for the legal order, etc. And from them, now, we get laws that are much worse than what the socialists have come up with in the last 12 years. These laws are much worse. It's not just about this law, it's about that tax-law package. There, that's the point. Therefore, I thank you, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, for writing bad laws. Thanks to your bad laws, we're going to take you down in a very short time. God forbid you make good laws, we would never bring you down.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9809	There is the word Bozidar Djelic, minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9810	You hear strange things again. It is said that what has happened in the last 12 years has been an appropriate social policy. God, keep me safe from the social policies that hold me against the whole world, keep me safe from social policies that cut through social and national income, keep me safe from social policies that are two years behind child support, keep me safe from social policies that are three years late with the pension of peasants, keep me safe from social policies where 26 months of giving to those who are the poorest, who need care. If there is talk of populistism, if populistism is the establishment of control over a professional institution such as the National Bank of Yugoslavia, which after a few years introduces a converting dinar and maintains a course, which now has twice as many reserves as before, then maybe it is a good thing. If populism is to take control of an institution like the Federal Customs Administration, for those who have seen the data of that administration, it will be clear what means the complete destruction of an administration and what happens in one place where what is written is not and what is happening, one place where what is recorded is not and what is given, and what is cash is not known to which it goes. In fact, you know, everything that's been the subject of this law, and that's a deep taxation of what's been organized robbery of our people. As for those free shooters, don't be afraid of those who do their own tax evasion, or have, in some crime, as I said, they'll be in front of you in a few weeks, during which month, by autumn, by September, one new date where we'll present to you what you obviously didn't consider fit to do in 12 years of government, which is the possibility of cross-checking the origin of the property. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9811	Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I put the amendments to Article 20, which was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. For 54, against 110, there were no abstentions, there were no 16 votes, out of 180 MPs. The Parliament of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to the 21st Amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment or the authorised representative of the Vojvodina Assembly want a word? He's not here. ( b) Do any of the other authorized want a word? Mr. Vojislav Seselj has the word of the People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9812	The provision of Article 21(2) is pointless, but even more pointless is the amendment of the Vojvodina Assembly. Why? In Article 2(2), it is intended to be exceptional for legal persons in a social or mixed property with a heavy share of social capital, which are not able to pay taxes in money, the payment can be made by handing over the corresponding share in the capital of such legal entities. This surrender is to the Republic. The Vojvodina Assembly is demanding that it be not only the Republic, but also the city, the city of Belgrade, etc. It's pointless for both of us. After this part of the agenda, we have a privatisation bill. According to this new privatisation law project, it is obvious - although it is not explicitly said - that social property is considered a form of state property. The main evidence for this thesis is the fact that the significant form of privatisation is sales. The Serbian Radical Party has been pushing for the form of privatisation as the primary for more than 10 years. This is not an attack on the privatisation law, but a criticism of this law and a provision to which the amendment and the amendment itself are submitted. If social property is state property, and objectively it is, then it is pointless for this provision to reconcile to the state by becoming part of social capital. He's certainly a state man. What's changing there? Look at the new privatisation law project. All that is not sold or what workers or citizens do not have a free right in one percent remains property of the state and the state of sale through its action fund. Money goes for the state's needs. It's always from that sale. So state property. In that case, this provision is pointless. It's a better provision not to apply this law to social enterprises. It is pointless for this law to apply to social and state-owned enterprises. What, then, in an analogue case, do you work with those companies that are by definition state-owned? Can you say there on behalf of these obligations that part of the capital will become government? It's all state and formal. This law gives some relief, alleged, to social firms, and not to the state. It's pointless. All outflows of money under this law, where it's taxed, in Article 3, if that money still remained state capital, there was no real outflow. It's like me moving 100,00 dinars out of one pocket into another pocket. This is about social and state capital, that is, the sector. Only where abuse has occurred for private purposes should sanctions be applied, but those, by nature, things can only be criminal. Then there's no taxation. In the case of private companies or citizens of individuals who have misappropriately come into possession of a large amount of money or real estate, why is this provision not applied? If the privateer is on the basis of a favourable credit from the primary show or on the basis of the purchase of exchange rates per course at the National Bank of Yugoslavia, investing in production, which was legal, because Dragoslav Avramović himself distributed a billion marks in such a way and to social and private companies, most social, if it was invested in production, why is it not foreseen by the same basis that whoever used the benefits, so that he invested in the production part of his shares in the corresponding value, would transfer to the state 10%, 20%, 30%, and in one private company that today has 100% private capital, to be 30% of state capital? That makes sense already. People wouldn't have to sell wake-up companies to meet this obligation, because if they don't sell themselves, then their company goes off to high school. It's always better when a man sells himself, because that's how he achieves a higher price than when the state sells him at a public auction. It's popularly called a dobosh. I hereby show you that the law has yet another insubstantial provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9813	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have otherwise not accepted this amendment. If no one wants a word anymore, I'll put the amendments to article 21, which was submitted by the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. For 9, against 135, the three abstentions, did not vote 33, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Bozidar Vujic and Radojko Petrić and a group of MPs together, consisting of Branislav Kovacevic, Teodora Vlahović, Ratimir Svirčević, Karolj Kermeci, Zivica Predojev, Zoran Bošković, Bojan Kostreš, Branislav Pomorički, Branislav Grubački, Višnja Nežić and Novica Đurasković. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijajlovic. The Government and the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. National MP Sladjan Mijalovic is withdrawing the amendment. I find that the applicant for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment and therefore there is no need for further consideration of the amendments to Member of the 22nd National MP, Sladjan Mijlovic. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9814	You better protect yourself by being a lady in this congregation once. I've never said anything to a lady, and whoever's throwing me doesn't deserve to be a lady, so hold back Milk, you haven't been in the O.R. in three hours anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9815	I ask the MP to focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9816	Allow me once to take these four steps without throwing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9817	Please, let's all respect each other together and not throw each other away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, position 2nd Article 22. The bill differed so far, until you accepted this amendment, two cases of non-payment of a one-time tax. Article 1 spoke of a taxpayer who does not pay a one-time tax paying interest at the rate prescribed by the law governing a tight rate of interest. Article 2 spoke of how interest will be paid on claims made in accordance with the agreement with the first-degree body and I really think that the legislator was right when he proposed the law, and he was wrong when he accepted the amendment. It is not the same if someone does not pay taxes or has an agreement with the Republic Public Revenue Administration on how they will pay taxes in the wars. Why would a taxpayer even make an agreement with the Republic Administration of Public Revenue if his interest was the same as not making an agreement? Then why do you agree to pay for the wars if the ekamat is the same for those who don't pay taxes and for those who pay the dues or, as expected, on time. I think that when you propose a law and imagine it, that you just so change the provisions of the law in accordance with some amendment that completely collapses one principle, it's not healthy logically acceptable. This is where the principle that you've established with only one member, two members before that, where you said the taxpayer could agree to pay for the wars, and now that you agree to pay for the wars, you tell him, you did deal with us, but it'll cost you the same thing as if we didn't even make a deal, like you ran out of the country, like you were hiding. I think there's talk here about you not being consistent. If the legislator doesn't accept an amendment the day before yesterday, he accepts it today, if the bill promoter writes a member, and then accepts an amendment that completely destroys that member, then he tells me about you, as they say, and those calls that citizens don't pay electricity, that they don't pay taxes. There was even a public dump in the waste cans, in the electricity and tax bills containers, and now they're getting those bills back, only with a new interest, which is being charged to them by DOS. Well, that looks like your promises to me. You say you promised the citizens this law. Did you promise them that with this law their factories would be shut down, some and forever? That's not what the legislator of this law was thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9819	The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9820	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a law that is feared by 1% of Serbian citizens, because 1% of Serbian citizens live in conditions defined as the conditions of enormous wealth. This 1% of Serbian citizens did not gain that wealth by working in social factories and the workers of these social factories themselves know very well who the law will treat. That this is how all those views in which it is a matter of justice and an account for everything that has happened to this society in the past 10 years, a priority question that must be answered quickly. The interest must be paid by those who have committed acts that have been subject to this law over the past 10 years. If they can't pay that interest, or if they don't have the financial resources, the amendments I personally submitted, the charges in another way are fair, much fairer than everything they've done to this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9821	The word has been given by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica, did not interpret your presentation well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9822	Of course, when someone doesn't want to interpret the amendment and just come out to keep the public confused. I'm not talking about whether there was a crime, whether there would be those who pay, and it's not the subject of this amendment. The subject of this amendment is interest, and I did not invent Article 20(3), but the legislator, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the DOS majority, and they said there the obligor could agree to pay in three wars and no later than six months. That's not what I'm looking for right now. That's what the bill says. I'm not looking for any relief here. I'm just saying it's not going to my head that whoever makes a deal to pay for the war pays the same tight interest as the one who doesn't agree, should pay from one time. The other thing is, it's not true, ladies and gentlemen, that the factories won't be closed. The taxpayer of this tax is a legal person. The taxpayer is Krusik, the obligator of this tax is "Freedom", "CER" - Cačak, Zavodje, "Red Flag" in Kragujevac. The taxpayer is all social trading companies, which supply all the cities in Serbia. All will be closed now, because they did not create their business, they could not generate such income, that they now pay this one-time tax, and that they continue to do business, and that Serbian citizens must know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9823	The word has been given by MP Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9824	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it would be high time for this speaker to be told the full truth, not part of the truth. It is not true that all those who took advantage of the extremely difficult situation, created by the embargo imposed on this country in 1992, by harassing this country, by breaking financial flows, by disabling the imports of repromation, by disabling exports, will be covered by this law. That's absolutely not true. This law will not cover many, and Mr Djelic, although the revolutionary speech was held here, did not deny it. I'm saying again -- there won't be anyone who's invested in an investment economy, cash money, foreign currency that he's come to with smuggling, got rich, built factories, won't be covered, because nobody's going to ask him -- where's your 400 square meters apartment from, nobody's going to ask him -- where's your house from a thousand squares, but he's going to ask someone who might have been in power or at the top of a social enterprise -- how did you get an apartment of 105 square meters, you got 15 square meters more, you have to pay taxes. This is a tenorous law, which has selective targets. Socialists are pushing for a comprehensive and comprehensive law, which will cover everything. Everyone has to prove the good they've acquired in the last ten years, but the DOS regime is running away from it. That's what this is about. Why is he running - because he must have been a part of these people and how he was involved in financing, and he is also part of the pyramid of DOS government. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, it is true, and now a story is being opened that I will tell you about, when it comes to the privatisation law, this law achieves part of the government over social property, facilitates and dictates the transformation process. It will be "Simpo", taking six dinar marks, no one will ask him what he did today, in southern Serbia, developed small and medium-sized enterprises, kept women young. The national task has been done, replaced by imports of many repromaries and achieved production, which goes to export. No, he will now be calculated how much money he took from six dinars and part of that value will be part of the value that will be managed directly by the Government and the Action Fund, at the time of the tender so-called. Privatisation, we'll talk about that tender privatisation when it's next law. Finally, I'm sorry, Mr Djelic came out, and I wanted to answer his story about the social story - the respected Mr Djelic, you've been here since March 1994, we've had a steady growth in economic production until September 2000. That's true. Since you came to power, there has been a constant decline in economic production, a reflection of ignorance and inability to manage the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9825	I ask the MP to return to the topic, the subject is an amendment to Article 22.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9826	Production is 10% lower in April, 12% in May, and exports are 30% lower in April, compared to last year, just so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9827	I ask the MPs that if they are already calling for respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and for the full truth to be delivered, then also in their conduct they also hold what they have in the introduction of the speech to say about the people's payphone. There is a word from MP Dragan Pavlovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9828	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm forced to react because we've heard the same thing 25 times. Whether the debate is in principle, whether the amendment to one, to the first or 25 members, is the same speech - sanctions, the success of Simpa - has nothing to do with the subject. Article 98, twenty-five has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9829	Since the chairman is in charge of taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to give the MP an explanation and a solution to his intervention. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall treat work procedures and mutual rights, duties and obligations of all MPs, all persons present at the session of the National Assembly, and the chairman. There is no way to determine to the Rules of Procedure that each MP does not, in particular, take advantage of the well-known right and knowledge from what political communication is and to present the twenty times-repeated thing as the full truth. It is the contents of the speech, for which each MP is responsible for a person. And the minister, of course, and every participant in the session. So the Messenger of the people can be warned not to stick to the matter, but then they would be warned more often than they would talk about and decide. Is the MP satisfied with the explanation and explanation? Yeah. I thank you. He has the word MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9830	Ministers here could most often be warned not to stick to the subject, but I think that all the debate, globally, is on the subject, and that good examples are from broader issues, which can be applied to the given situation. This law may scare one percent of the people in Serbia, with the concrete consequences it will cause. That's true, and I don't care about that in principle. However, this law will scare all people in Serbia who think with their heads, because of the precedent they represent, because it is being brought, and it is known in advance that it is anti-constitutional. Because it has retroactive provisions, which are to the detriment of those on which it is applied, and yet it is brought, because it neglects the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal acts, and firstly brings material benefits to the same level those who committed crimes and those who did not. Now, that's the point. A moment ago, Minister Djelic again held a Filipino about social policy, about the wrong common state policy, over the past ten years and referred to the invasion of the National Bank and the Federal Customs Administration. You see, this member is about interest. Why Minister Djelic, as finance minister, did not first create conditions for any interest in this country to be on an annual level, no matter what percentage. We still account for daily interest - 0.2% per day. It's this tight interest. It was introduced, of course, back in 1993, at a time of hyperinflation, and now there's no hyperinflation. Why is there so much interest now? Why isn't that the same interest that applies to old foreign savings - 2% a year, or why isn't it the interest that counts on citizens who have dinar savings in banks? Why it's tight, I don't know how big it is, it doesn't matter. Now, what's the key to all this -- Bozidar Djelic, if DOS were in power, maybe Serbia wouldn't be in conflict, you said with the whole world, not with the whole world, but with Western forces. But at what cost, who could of the serious, honorable Serbs, in 1991 allow the secession of Yugoslavia at the AVNOY borders? The honorable Serb, who would agree with that, was not. The Democratic Party, which you belong to, was then in the first phase to support volunteering. Gojko Djogo, in front of the party, attended the first meeting of the Association of Serbs from Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9831	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9832	Please, I answer to Minister Djelic. He was in his first meeting and promised volunteers. However, since the Democrats were always silk by nature, there were no reports. Now, if Minister Djelic, on the one hand, asks that this law be applied to precisely selected persons and companies, and on the other hand, justifies the incursion of the National Bank and the Federal Customs Administration, he uses as an argument what those who have fired the automatic rifle are there in time of the document, because the documents might have been destroyed. Imagine if I went to the NBJ now with an automatic rifle so that someone there wouldn't destroy the documents, or I'd break into the cabinet of Minister Djelic with an automatic rifle to keep his papers. Is that an argument? Or, on what basis did Vladan Batic raid the Galenika factory? Was he there saving documents or was he stealing Chinese drugs that were stored there...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9833	I ask the MP to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9834	That's the darkness. You know, in this topic that Minister Bozidar Djelic spoke about...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9835	Mr Nikolic did not mention the rifles and machine guns in the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9836	Why didn't you warn Bozidar Djelic when he mentioned it?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9837	National MP Vojislave Seselj, you have reached out as president of the Parliament's discussion group under Article 22...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9838	I know what I've come up with, but it's interesting what your objectivity is. When a Serbian radical responds to something the minister said, you step away from the topic immediately, and the minister can opt out of the topic, or the head of your parliamentary group, or anyone from DOS. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9839	Here you go, Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9840	More specifically, the tight interest is regulated at the federal level. There was a change in the law two months ago. It is calculated by adding 0.5% to the rise in prices to a small extent in the previous month. And that 0.2% was a year, and that's what RUJP used to do. The Constitutional Court's decision decided that this was not constitutional and since 6 April, a federal law on tight interest has been applied. So that's the interest that's being applied and that's going to be applied here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9841	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put it to a vote... A tail on a tight interest? What's the basis of the replica? [[He speaks to Ambassador Vojislav Seselj, who seeks a replica.]] Let's break up with the replicas. You have no right to a replica. It was an explanation of the strain of interest applied. If we have a representative of the Government who deceives the Assembly, then no replica will help, certainly we do not have a representative of the Government who makes false information. I put the amendments to the 22nd People's MP Tomislav Nikolic to vote. For 52, against 107, there were no abstentions, 20 of the 179 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic has proposed that new members marked as members of 23rd to 23rd be added after Article 23rd. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijajlovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, by proposing a legal-technical editorial of this amendment. Thus, points 1 to 4 of Article 2 of the Final Regulation should read as follows: "1) the cost of forced payment; 2) the interest; 3) the fine for violations of this law; 4) the principal tax debt." This revision was agreed by a representative of the legislator who was present at the Committee's session. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, with the revision proposed by the Committee. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9842	The legislator should always bear in mind the possibility that he can't come up with a forced charge so easily and that it could take place in stages. If it is already happening in phases, then it is necessary to consider which stage can be completed first, and then what phases are important when forced collection. I mean, at the moment when forced payment is made it's important to collect interest and the main tax debt, and we're going to be easy to fine for the offense and the cost of execution. If that main debt is charged, the state can very well forgive if the person concerned, if the taxpayer has nothing to pay the fine for the violation of this article and the cost of forced payment. The most important thing is to charge the debt, because otherwise we'd look like greens. So interest and debt, and then state authorities that certainly work for wages and what their expenses can also account for later when basic payments are settled. It doesn't matter how important you treat the amendments. Whenever there is an amendment from the opposition MPs, there is an amendment that you will accept, which somehow looks different, and that is where we return to that shame of yours when the bill is not good. It's no shame if you write a bad bill. It's a shame to be proved here, and you stubbornly and hard-corely remain in that position and remain to defend what you know is not good. Now we've heard here, today we've heard more than once, that the federal constitutional court has already interfered several times in assessing republican regulations. You know why it is. That's because you hold the Constitutional Court of Serbia on ice. That's because you're conducting to the Constitutional Court judges what they're going to do. Keep them all under your control because you haven't yet published the final results of last September's federal elections and because you still don't know what the Federal Constitutional Court was doing. Who committed some kind of criminal act from the judges. Which of the judges of the federal constitutional court was matured to stand under the bat...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9843	Please return to the amendment. If I have to remind you, I'll read the amendment. Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9844	When it comes to interest, it is interesting that Bozidar Djelic is now being called on to federal law, and when he proposed that his package of tax laws, he was not interested in federal law. Oh, I have a better idea. Minister Djelic would do well to listen to me. Bozidar Djelic, hello, Djelic, let Chad Jovanovic go now, listen to what the opposition says. He won't listen to me. He's a representative of the government. It's not worth talking to if a government official can't hear me. MPs don't have to listen to me, but the executive authority has to listen to me. That's it. As soon as a government official arrives, I have a much better idea for these interest rates. That the amount of interest is tied to the course of the dinar according to the mark. The minister boasts how hard the money is now. One brand of 30 dinars, hasn't changed since October. Well, when you don't change your brand course to a dinar, why don't you even pay? How it's even possible to increase the cost of life and course the same. What does that mean? Is that devalued with us? Now you get us stamps on your domestic interest. That means your course is artificial. Don't call yourself on your success as a mark course, because those who today are the hardest in the country, nor do they have the marks to sell for dinars, nor do they have the dinars to buy stamps. We have higher prices now than in Germany. With us, meat is almost twice as expensive as in Germany. That's the problem. I was there the other day, with Ned Arneric I went to the NATO Pact Assembly. Now that you're interested, let me answer. Neda didn't tell you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9845	Mr. Seselj, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9846	What do I want to say to these? The criteria you're dealing with, the criteria, the orientations, that's a bad start for you. What you call your success means nothing to the people of this country. Your basic failure is that now industrial production in this country is 30% lower than in the same period last year. I guess that's the problem. You promise to pay for the wheat of 11 dinars, and then you drill into your chest that 7.5 dinars is a good price. I agree that 7.5 dinars is not a bad price, because logically, the price of wheat on the world market is between 20 and 25 pfenig, but I never promised that it could be 11 pfenig, or 11 dinars, as they say, 32 pfenig. And for 32 pfeniga Minister Vesenov promised, knowing exactly what the price was. Now, you who should also know why you think the people in this country don't understand anything, you act like the people don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9847	Mr. Seselj, please return to the amendment. If I have to read you the amendment. The amendment is - a mandatory payment from the position of the 1st member...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9848	It's about interest, Mrs. Micic, because you understood that forced payment since the government accepted the amendment of Cedomir Jovanovic, so the MPs did not have the opportunity to speak about it. There's a Falinka in the Rules of Procedure that doesn't bother you -- as soon as the government accepts the amendment, MPs don't have the right to speak about it. They couldn't in principle debate, they couldn't in particular, they couldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9849	How could they not in the principle debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9850	It's something else. I know you don't know what's on the wallpaper right now, it's an amendment that also applies to interest, and I'm talking about that particular interest. Of course, the way I express the problem to make any larger number of people clear, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9851	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to article 24. For 55, against 99, the abstentions were not voted 26, and a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted the amendment to Article 24. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, with the revision proposed by the Committee. The word is Mr. Bozidar Vujic, in the capacity of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is only one word that will explain why, that is, all the absurdity of the government's reasoning. That's really absurd. The assembly found that the government accepted Mr. Sladjan Myajlovic's amendment to this article. This assembly rejected the amendment of the SRS MP, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to this same member. This assembly, and I really hope, will refuse my amendment as well. Here's what this is about: absurd to absurd. The government is proposing this member, the proposed basis for forced payment. Both Mr. Mijalovic and Mr. Nikolic and I have suggested that this article be complemented by a new attitude, which is "katete". The government didn't have that in the basic proposal at all. The Legislative Committee, considering these three amendments, realized that the government had made a mistake, thank God that the Legislative Committee had understood. Then she carried out the legal-technical repair of the amendment submitted by Mr. Mijlovic. He only asked for interest to be entered, and the Legislative Committee determined the order in which the interest should be found, in addition to these three positions, which are the cost of forced payment, fines for the offence and the main debt. In the same sense, adding interest was not predicted by the government at all, this expert government, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic and I suggested it. Even the Legislative Committee said that Mr Tomislav Nikolic's amendment and mine is legally possible if a legal-technical order is carried out. But, no, the government makes a political difference, beyond that transparency. The DOS MP submits an amendment that is the same as the MPs of the SRS, its adoption, and ours is rejected. Is there even a basis to discuss Mr Tomislav Nikolic's amendment... Given that the government has accepted the proposal made by Mr. Sladjan Mijajlovic. Normally, with the Legislative Committee fixed, but there isn't, but it's DOS. We've been trying to prove it to you all the time after this pay phone. Now that Mrs. Micic is leading, I won't say DOS is the worst, though it is, but that's what the people will see, and I won't say it now. What I want to say about the expertise of this government, the most transparent that the people will see is this law. This law has 27 members, and on four members, none of the MPs have submitted any amendments. Of the remaining 23, the amendments submitted in these two or three days by the MPs, 15 were accepted by this assembly. It's that expert government. Such a law has been passed to adopt 15 of the 23 amendments, with the power of the arguments, which the MPs have been trying to explain to all the other MPs, and the Assembly has accepted. Only eight members, the National Assembly did not accept the amendments. That's the expertise of the government. On this case, this law shows it so transparently, it's really not a miracle, and DOS is really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9853	Mr. Vujic, this is not exactly what you lied about. You didn't stick to the agenda theme, you did an analysis of today's work at all, which isn't your part. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by Mr Bozidar Vujic. For 49, there are no 109 abstentions, no 26 votes, and 184 MPs are present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Gjorge Mamula have jointly tabled an amendment suggesting that a new member of 26a be added after article 26. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Dejan Mihaylov, as the bearer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9854	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, as we have determined, this law is an exception in the legal order, one precedent, and it is brought into situations in all states, in which we are now, and that means that those who have abused the suffering of citizens for years, justice and punishment for what they have done. The very nature of this law is such that even in this assembly, it has already been done today, and even in the public, it will cause a lot of debate - whether it is just or unfairly applied, whether they are all taxed evenly or unequally, whether some have or do not have privileges because they are closer or further to the current government. The amendment's proposal went in the direction that in this assembly this law to empower the competent committee, which already exists and works in the Serbian Parliament, to exercise control over the implementation of this law. So, not to interfere with the enforcement of this law, but to be able to exercise control of its implementation. Although this possibility stands in the Rules of Procedure, the proposaler's intention was for this committee to draw its control force from this law, and precisely because it was precedentd in the legal order that it could directly draw control from the law itself. This proposal is fully in line with the Constitution. Article 73. The 11th Constitution says that the Assembly is in control of the work of the government and other bodies and that the Assembly can commit itself by law, because it is the legislator, to carry out certain controls and how it will be carried out. We are not in the government's responsibilities, as it is spoken in explaining why this amendment should not be accepted, because we are not asking that this committee participates in the enforcement of the law, but only asking for the control of the enforcement of the law, because we believe that because of the very nature of this law, this control must be open, public and that the competent committee of the Serbian Parliament, in which other parties, which are now in opposition, can request that individual items be delivered to that committee. And the committee responsible, as it stands in the last position of this amendment, can hire certain legal and natural persons, which will help control the enforcement of this law. We feel it is good to accept this amendment, because in this way we will draw closer to this law to the public and to the citizens, that it will not be secret whether someone is less or more taxed, whether one who is close to the current republican government is less taxed because it is close to it or who was close to the previous government, is more taxed. It is our intention that this law be just, because it is justice for all those who have suffered these years. Addressing the principles, which Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr Djindjic presented in his exposé, which says that the public and control of the two main postulates will be based on the functioning of the current government and the current authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9855	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He has the word Mr. Seselj as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9856	The SRS MPs will vote against this amendment for two very specific reasons. The first is that the National Assembly should not control the work of government commissions. The National Assembly controls the government's work in general. Modern parliamentary systems make only one exception when it comes to SDB or police in general, especially when it comes to secret police. Only this government body is treated individually through the activities of the committee of the highest legislative body. The second reason we are against this amendment is that it is enough that the National Assembly will be dirtyed by the vote of one constitutional law, that it no longer needs the National Assembly to be an accomplice in its application, which will also inaugurate a fully anti-constitutional practice. And when it comes to the responsibility of the government, then this particular question, which is in the hands of the government under this law, will also be considered. We must not allow the jurisdiction of the legislative and executive authorities to intertwine in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9857	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Mr. Pelevic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9858	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, the Party of Serbian Unity will support this amendment, because we believe it allows and provides the functions of the provisions of Article 73. The Serbian Constitution, which controls the government's work by the National Assembly. The government or the government commission should represent the same for us. I believe the government has sown suspicion, proposing members 9 and 13. In an authentic proposal for this law, Article 9 spoke of the government being able to settle with rich people, who gained their wealth, extra income and extra property illegally, using their privileges, i.e. abuse of their official position. Article 13 spoke of the granting of a 35 per cent discount to those who entered their tax returns. To these two members, the government later had to put pressure on the Assembly to adopt amendments and to delete them, which states that it is necessary to establish the control of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent authority, in the process of implementing this law, and that the implementation of the law is controlled by the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I believe it is necessary for us to vote for the adoption of this amendment, because it is, in fact, an integral part of the amendments that we, from the Party of Serbian Unity and many other MPs, have submitted to the members of the 9th and 13th of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9859	The word is from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9860	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if someone opposed the idea of controlling the executive government, alone, even if there was no basis for doubt, would raise doubts about their intentions. In every situation, this parliament has used an opportunity to control the executive government. This country is a country where inaugurated systems of values that were entirely wrong. This was a tragic and suspicious society until October 5th. Now we're trying to change it. It is true that the congregation can control the government through congregation work bodies. It's true to talk about every move of government. It is true that there would be no need for such an amendment in normal situations, because such a thing is already assumed from the function of the Assembly and the functions of the executive authority. There's still no reason to run away from the Supervision. Let parliament take such a step and underline, once again, the rights of the committee responsible to control the work of this committee, because we are not ashamed of this work and we are proud of this proposal and all that we are going to do in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9861	There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9862	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, there is no reason here for any bile speech from this pay phone, for the simple reason why this proposal does no one's jurisdiction, it does not endanger anyone's work, and at least it affects anyone's work. Only right to insight and control in the work of an organ is required here. Since, not only do I know of whose will or request, the work of this commission and everything about this law is very public and of the various MPs from all MPs there have been objections to the basic text of this law, then there are many grounds and it is not unconstitutional (many of which is unconstitutional incorporated into this law in other members) to put a proposal in the law to form a commission, which will follow the work of this. Of course, I don't think anyone is bothered by this commission being formed on a parity basis as we are represented in the Assembly, so according to the number of MPs in the parliamentary clubs, we all follow the work of this committee together. All the heads of Parliament's clubs have said that they are in principle in favour of this law, that we all want this law to make things clear, but also that we want certain insights to exist and that we fear certain abuses, which we have shown by asking to delete them. The 9th and 13th laws. Therefore, this proposal is absolutely justified. We're ready to back him up. Only in this way will the discussions that have been a bile these days show one commonity of this home by forming a committee, a joint commission, where they will be able to systematically monitor the work of representatives of state authorities, the work of a commission dealing with this business. I don't see why there should be some secrecy when we are constantly offered some information in public, and they say there's a report behind it. Nothing is disputed that the Republic Public Revenue Administration, the Commission and the Government report to the committee responsible, that the board has insight into all this and give its consent. That would achieve an absolute series of organs, authorized organs, that could do this. Of course, another way to define this amendment was to form a special commission. But since the proposal is like this, we need to give him absolute support.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9863	He has the word Mr. Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9864	According to the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible to impose this obligation on the committee responsible. The committee responsible shall be the Committee on Finance. The committee responsible shall have its responsibilities prescribed by Article 53. Rules of Procedure. Then, under the Constitution, Article 73 point 11, paragraph 1, the National Assembly shall exercise control over the work of the Government and other bodies and officials responsible for the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law. The National Assembly cannot be in charge of overseeing the work of a government expert. The government has formed its commission as its auxiliary working body. The congregation can only supervise the work of the government in general, not the work of that working body. In Article 41. The Rules of Procedure states that to consider and to look at issues raised in the work of the Assembly, therefore only questions from the competence of the Assembly, the proposing of acts and the review of the state of policy management, the execution of tasks, etc. committees can be educated. Permanent committees cannot have that jurisdiction. Could be a polling committee or some ad hoc formed committee or commission. The board of directors can't, because this isn't his jurisdiction. The board of directors can control the finance minister, but not some working body formed by the government or the finance minister. That's funny, then. It's a misrepresentation of the National Assembly. Even what might seem wise to you at some point, if it's not in agreement with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, it's actually funny. This law cannot be amended by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9865	He's got the word "Dejan Michaels," according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9866	It is interesting how someone is trying to pull this parliament out of the hands of the control mechanism given to him by the Rules of Procedure. This can leave us with doubt as to why someone needs to get as few people as possible to find out what's going on, who's going to be taxed and what are the facts that are going to get to the citizens. Okay, well, that's an honor to everyone, including whoever's against this proposal. But it's their right. The truth works, and the citizens do, is said in the last sentence of Article 53. Rules of Procedure: as well as other issues in the area of finance. This is one question from the area of finance. This committee has jurisdiction over both the law and the work. This is the Rules of Procedure that you brought in, and this was what this was all about. I don't see why such a gallant debate, why are you resisting one of the opportunities that has been given right to the Parliament where you are sitting. This is exactly what we were looking for: parliamentary control of the work of the government, executive bodies. That's what we all stood for. It's the only way we can have the right executive organs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9867	This was actually the answer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He has the word Finance Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9868	I would like to briefly explain why the government has not adopted this amendment. That's because the legislative authority doesn't enforce the laws. We can see that there's something going on here for some law enforcement authority. The executive authority is enforcing the law. The legislative authority controls the executive power. That's what needs to be preserved. In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure enables and that it is absolutely necessary to adopt a committee of inquiry, given what kind of matter it is, the executive authority does not run away from control but is very eager to control it. We all see well together what's going on here. As someone said, both Article 3 and Article 9 have shown that the level of trust that can exist in one country, at this point in Serbia, is not at an envious level, so any discretion may be that it was not desired for you. I would not agree with a speaker who said it was under the pressure of the congregation. In my opening statement, I said that this is a very specific law, that it's very important that we have a good and rich debate. I think that's exactly what she was. If I've calculated correctly, 15 amendments have been accepted. That's good. That makes this law a lot of bricks than it was at first. As far as the amendments are concerned, it seems unnecessary to us, because it requires the legislative authority to do what needs to be done, and that is not necessary. On the other hand, all this is written is absolutely made possible by the Rules of Procedure. There are all provisions in the Rules of Procedure to do so. In conclusion, the government doesn't want to get out of control of anything. But of course, there is a way that is constitutionally arranged and we desire control and we agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9869	There is a word from MP Joca Arsic - objecting to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9870	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, has already been violated several times by article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in that the minister is given the floor to comment on each amendment, i.e. the authorising officer, or representative of the Government. He is not in this case equated with MPs, and by Article 136, the word receives when the debate on all amendments is concluded, to give the final word, i.e. the Minister or the Prime Minister. I don't dispute law, but I'm asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure. We break it several times, and here we go to advertise when it comes to the Rules of Procedure in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9871	Mr. Arsic, you're wrong. You did not read Article 134 paragraph 2 well. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says "the debate in particular, takes place by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and the amendments proposed by the introduction of new provisions, which may be discussed by the applicant of the amendment, i.e. if the amendment proposes several MPs, the authorised representative, the proposer of the act", and as far as we know, the minister has been authorised to propose the act. Mr. Arsic, it's about the law. What are we doing for two days? Before we move to the vote on the amendment tabled by Dejan Michael and George Mamula, I find that these MPs have given up part of the amendment relating to Section 3. I put the amendments tabled by the MPs Dejan Michael and George Mamul. For 141, against 27, abstentions 7, 17 of the 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 26. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendment tabled by Mr. Borislav Pelevic. For 35, against 120, one abstention, was not voted 36, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments, does the representative of the act want to speak? The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9872	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, in which minute you will vote in favour or against this law. Of course, as in the opening statement, I urge you to vote in favour of this law. I would just like to point out that this law is in many ways unique because the situation in which our country has been brought into being is unique and therefore there are some provisions that really differ from that of regular practice and it is very important, and we will do so in the application of this law, in order to properly separate what is unique in this law from what is a regular tax practice in our country. Neither are these the same people, nor are they the same objects, nor are they the same times and for that, as we see in this law, which now comes to your vote, with a little more amendments than usual and we in the government are proud of it. It's not pressure, it's the democracy of some new government, because this matter is rich, too rich, unfortunately, for our country. It was good that we had such a discussion and it remains only for the sake of the Government of the Republic of Serbia after the vote of this law to repeat what I concluded last time, which is that there is no greater harm than when someone uses someone's misfortune, that I hope this government will do everything in the next few months and years, of course, to apply this law consistently. He's done this matter well, which is very complicated. From the moment of the vote of this law, the administration will go to work, as will the commission, and we will very regularly, along with this commission and other ways, inform you of what results we have come up with. As I said, since there were questions about what will be done with the money that is collected, it is ungrateful and not necessarily and even, I would say, it would be counterproductive to say how much money we collect with this law and this tax. It's not recommended because there's no reason to tell those who need to pay this tax, as much as we expect them to. We will, of course, collect the maximum number and the maximum amount. By erasing Article 9, if you wish, we have simplified the lives of the administration, including the Government, to some extent, but also made it difficult to work. However, this does not remove responsibility from the government and from the administration to do everything in its capacity to collect as soon as possible the maximum amount of money, so that through a special account that will be opened in the Republic of Serbia's budget, it will focus on a programme that will, of course, be public and it is certain that the programme will give priority to those who have paid the most, i.e. The poorest layers of our society. In the end, all that was said was that this law wasn't strict enough or it didn't cover the matter enough, to say that he and how well he covered the matter of what and the subject of what this law was made of, that is. The coverage -- perhaps in a simple way, but I don't see a better way to characterize it -- the organized robbery of our people, what was adopted through the privileges of some who were close to the top, who had some benefits, to which others had no right, to correct that injustice. This, of course, does not take responsibility from the government to continue to work on the improvement of our system as soon as possible, so that the tax administration law, which we will propose in a few weeks, foresees, what many today have sought and what is justified. We have provisions, as in all other countries, in the environment, in the West, that will allow the tax administration that, when it sees one villa, it doesn't say - whether you paid a tax on a villa, or not. You paid your taxes, everything's fine. Now, to go a little further and say -- did you pay the fairy tax, let's see cross-check -- where did the incomes that allowed you to buy such a villa, and then compare with the business results that were reported by that taxpayer, and through that cross-check, which exists, come to some conclusions, and it's safe to go to an additional tax. That's what we're going to do, just like we're going to continue a consistent fight against the gray economy and corruption. One resolution will come to the agenda, after the privatisation package, we will have the opportunity to talk about it. If we look at the results so far, we see that we are also in the oil domain, and in the area of cigarettes, and you will see, in many other domains, as you will see through the proposed law on gambling, which is over, and after some brief debates will be proposed to this assembly for adoption, that we will gradually, but very quickly introduce order, not only through this organized robbery, but also what is simply a robbery of our people, those free shooters, who through tax evasion or smuggling are taking away from our budget and from our peoples the resources that are necessary. And to conclude, as I have concluded in the opening words, this is one tax that does not only have an economic background, but also a deep moral background. In carrying out this, I can't wait to see if anyone will ever think about receiving any bribes or corruption through it. We have enough mechanisms to control and I believe that the people will never forgive it. And in the end, if I'm talking about applying this, it will allow us to break up with the past. The closing word can't be any different, but -- it didn't happen again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-20-0.u9873	I thank the minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Single Tax on Extra Income and Extra Assets acquired by taking advantage of special benefits, in general. For 134 against 47, there were no, no, 9 votes, of a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the bill on one-off income tax and extra property, acquired by using special benefits. Since we have 30 minutes left by the end of our working hours, in order to be rational, and in accordance with Article 93(3), I suggest that we stop the work. I'm putting a motion to vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 144, the 13th, the 1st, did not vote 12, out of 170 MPs. So we're breaking up. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 136 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Vojislav Doshen, Dusan Budišin, Srdja Popović, Jon Čizaš, Dragan Maršić, Mihajlo Jagodić, Petar Misic, Stevan Lilic, Vojislav Janković, Vuko Antonijević, Ratimir Svirčević, Emilia Krstic, Dusan Tubić, Branislav Pomorički, Višna Nežić, Predrag Stojanović, Goran Vesić, Vojislav Obradović, Milos Radivojčević and Karolj Kermeci. Only in the morning is Ružica Veljovic away, and in the afternoon, Vojkan Tomic and Sinisa Mitrovic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PRIVATION LAW, PRIVATION AGENCY AND THE ACCTIONAL FONDU (joint principle search) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws proposed by MP Dušan Proroković, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on privatisation, a draft law on the Agency for Privatisation and a proposal for a law on the Action Fund. He has the word of Economy and Privatisation Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, the legislator.
