ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12557	Advertising the violation of two members of the Rules of Procedure: Art. 79rd and 83rd. The 79th specifically states that meetings of the National Assembly are held between 10.00 and 19.30 hours. Now it's 10:30, so put it there all you who accuse anyone of obstruction, for the slow work of the National Assembly, enter that the Assembly didn't start at 10.00, but at 10:30, and no one told us the reasons for not holding the session. As far as I know, no committee is in session today. At the same time, I remind you, Mr. President, that yesterday I advertised that we had not received the minutes from the previous session, although the beginning of yesterday's session was the last deadline in which we could get the minutes so the session could even begin. You promised we'd get through yesterday's minutes from the previous session. The minutes have not yet been received by the MPs, and today we should have adopted it before the beginning, or the change to the agenda, or the continuation of the work on the agenda. I am increasing my suspicions about the work of the National Assembly. It's a record from a session where we chose prosecutors and judges. I am convinced that there are great reasons why we have not received this record in time so far, and therefore I ask you, Mr. President, to give us a break until we have received the record, or to finally give the right explanation why the Assembly does not function according to the Rules of Procedure, which is valid, or to convince us that you will ever respect any rules of procedure as a congregation majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12558	Are you asking the Assembly to plead? (Glasses - give an explanation. ) Explanation of what? Why didn't she work from 10.00 to 10:30? What kind of explanation do you think you can get? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Are you speaking to me? No, your colleague who speaks as your patron, since I asked if you were looking for a statement, and you kept your mouth shut and scratched your nose with glasses. Are you looking for a statement? I give you a warning. [[The answer of the messengers is not heard.]] I don't know, we'll check it out. If you're looking for a statement, I'm asking you one last time, and if you're not looking, we can keep working. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic, followed by Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12559	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 39. The SRJ constitution guarantees freedom of speech and performance. Article 44. The Constitution of the SRJ citizen has the right to publicly criticise the work of state and other bodies and organisations, officials, to submit performances, petitions and proposals to them and to receive answers if requested. In Article 65. The Constitution of the SRJ states: "Every one is obliged to perform an honorable and responsible public function." The provisions of the Federal Constitution have mostly been transposed into the Republic Constitution by quoting them, but this act governing the work of the National Assembly has violated all constitutional rights which we, as citizens, or MPs, representatives of these citizens, have, according to these members and other members, which the MPs in their amendments have mentioned. I think that this act is publicly said that this is not just about breaking the Constitution, but about closing any public words, and for these reasons I would give some comparative indicators, which is why these rules of procedure restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are being achieved through the MPs representing them. Just a few ideas about the amendment proposal and the additions of the existing Rules of Procedure. One of the basic characteristics is the restriction of the parliamentary group and the rights of MPs to express their public word, to make proposals, to criticise and propose. If the MP has the right to propose the law as the largest act in the legislative body, i.e. in the Assembly, then - why would it be limited to the right that some act proposed by the Government or by another body that is competent to supplement it, criticise and implement that democracy that you advocate and which you promised to the people and citizens of Serbia in last year's elections. Limiting the right to debate to five hours, the MP only for a few minutes, or when it becomes a minute, cannot lead to this being presented and the citizens' interest being fully represented. Then, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, where only representatives of parliamentary groups have the right to give their opinions, proposals and to put the Rules of Procedure on a check, refers to the fact that the representative or president of the parliamentary group should be here all the time. He should be sure to consult with the party's leadership on certain issues, attitudes, criteria, and in this case he should be around all the time, to be present. Then what do we MPs represent here? We only represent robots that aren't really supposed to be there. If adopted this way, there's no need to be 250 MPs. We choose by this criteria or the way we're going to agree, to make it 10-15 parliamentary groups, to have all the presidents of the parliamentary groups come into this room, to cut costs, to talk to the people yourself, and to explain to the people what you promised after a year, and you didn't make it. To submit amendments to one member, that this right has only one MP from the parliamentary group, I mean totally, not to say so. There is no way to find a way to give an explanation that in this strong system of democratic approach and the principles that you stand for as a future party, it can be adequately criticised and complemented by a certain legal proposal. The peak of all this (heard in discussions that were in previous days), it refers to the fact that at a certain point, in the opinion of the majority of the opposition MPs, the executive power took over the legislative power. So, in this case, when it comes to fines, it appears that the legislative authority has taken over the judiciary. As far as we know, a week ago we chose judges of municipal courts, district courts, economic courts and the list of these judges, there is no president of this parliament, there is no vice president of parliament, there is no president of the Administrative Board, who imposes penalties, there is no possibility given in the Constitution that someone who is fined with money or any other penalty has the right to appeal. For this reason, my commentary is that this body is taking over the judiciary and that Serbian citizens should know in this way what is being done and what is being done by the DOS government. This is the way and approach to giving one act, which should be in the role of all our MPs, is the ultimate cynicism, the twilight of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Serbia, the collapse of DOS democracy. I think the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Martian, as vice-president of a democratic party who gave this proposal for debate, should be here in front of the MPs, after these discussions that were held during yesterday, to withdraw this proposal, to return it to the commissions, or bodies formed in March of the month, because in yesterday's presentation, he himself suggested that, in a nice way, with a lot of parliamentaryism and democracy, the Rules of Procedure be treated in the manner that corresponds to MPs, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12560	Just one correction, not the vice president of the Democratic Party, but the Democratic Party of Serbia. It's not a replica, and I'm not too offended. The People's Messenger Zivko Selaković has the word, and after him, the MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic. First of all, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12561	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, because of you, and also because of the public who is following this session, I would like to point out to the President of the Assembly that he is breaking the Rules of Procedure, which we are already used to, but we simply cannot go over and want to always show him whenever he makes mistakes. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has advertised the violation of two members of the Rules of Procedure and, on the basis of Article 95, Article 3 of the Assembly president was obliged to give an explanation. The explanation was to refer to why this congregation did not begin at 10.00 hours. It is his obligation to be in this room at 10.00 hours, to begin work, to determine whether there is quorum or no quorum and whether the session can begin on this basis or not. He comes first at 10:30 in this room, and then someone else, mostly the opposition, is guilty of having sessions as long as they last and of losing as much time every day as we lose because of the lack of quorum. I could also comment on your inappropriate behavior, but it is a matter of your education that is absolutely no longer in doubt, and you are the one who turns this assembly into a market, so I ask you to change your attitude with the MPs for all of us and for the sake of the public, who is following the course of the session, after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12562	Former Minister Mrs. Pop-Lazic has been joking again since early morning. You know very well... Sit freely, it is not usual for MPs to stand. No need, you can sit down... That the National Assembly cannot begin work until the quorum is secured. You also know very well, or you would have to know, that there is an official record of the number of Members of the People's People's Parliaments arrived. You know very well that it is absolutely impossible to have quorum in the room unless there are sufficient number of MPs recorded in the official record. Are you Mrs. Pop-Lazic, pleased with the answer, or are you asking for the National Assembly to come forward? Of course you want the National Assembly to declare whether there has been an injury to Article 79. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 20, against 102, abstention 21, did not vote 28, a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Zivko Selaković has the word, and after him, the MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12563	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, given the time in which we are and the state of our people in which we are, and the time obviously is not working on our hands, I think there has been a substitute here for the thesis that the burning issues of Kosovo and Metohija and the elections ahead are being put on a completely different agenda, and that we, MPs in the National Assembly, are having a debate about 10 days, which, in my opinion, should not have come on the agenda at this time. That's why I'm saying it. In the last eight months, we've been changing the Rules of Procedure twice, and we all realized that 7-10 thousand marks cost one day of the National Assembly. These two debates will certainly take nearly 20 days, so now you see that it is about 200,000 marks, and when it comes to agriculture, or investment in agriculture, education, health care, the question of pensioners, there is an excuse that there is no money. I would rather support my statement that this Rules of Procedure has contradictions, i.e. it is not quite in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Constitution of the SRJ. Given the limited time of five minutes, I cannot quote all members, which are members 22 and 23. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia; let's say Article 76 says, "The MP represents the citizens of the electoral unit in which he was elected," and here we see that the amendment of the Rules of Procedure wants the MP not to speak at all, but to take over the intelligence groups. I argue that parliamentary groups are further organisations of MPs in the Assembly, as they should function, and given that MPs from various regions are elected and make up a certain parliamentary group, I think they should be able to transfer their base's opinion, because we do not represent the same regions in the Assembly. Also, Article 77(2) states: "The MP cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for opinion or voting in the National Assembly. "By applying this new Rules of Procedure, which is most likely to be adopted by most, it is contrary to all that the rules of procedure want to achieve. Furthermore, I would like to say that the MP is elected, as a representative of the citizens, to represent the citizens and represent the excessive interests of the people, normally, respecting the laws and the Constitution. As I said before, these criminal measures -- we need to know that well, every guy who hits his pocket, there's the most sensitive. What do I want to say? Perhaps in an indirect way he wants the MP to shut up and use it as a voting machine in the Assembly. What's especially burning my eyes, that's reading my speech. I think the abolition of these provisions would be counterproductive. We know, when the speech is written, it can be more constructive and more said in a time that might be a minute or two for exposure. I'm not saying everything's wrong here. For example, interpretation is a very good intention, but in the way it is predicted, it is not good - 50 MPs are difficult to provide, because there is no opposition party. The only holy member in this is to shorten the work of the National Assembly, because after 18 hours, the MP is mentally unable to monitor the work of the session, and especially to participate in its work. Let me just finish - the ambassador's group is proposing that this draft be withdrawn, since this is already said to be a temporary solution, so that until one detailed solution, we do what is old and that the new proposal includes representatives of all political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12564	The People's Messenger Vladimir Dobrosavljevic has the word. After him Neda Arnerić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12565	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, unfortunately, Serbia has not shown too much capacity for modernisation processes in two centuries of its modern history. In many ways, in economic, social, inter alia, and political spheres, we have lagged behind other European developed countries, which does not mean that the experience of these same countries is not to be taught. Sometimes the length of the existence of certain institutions, their development, does not mean the automatic quality. Sometimes countries with far less historical experience and much less time in the development of political institutions have far more developed political institutions than those where these institutions last much longer. For this reason, it is clear that there is also a need to see the shortcomings, but also the virtues of some of the values of other developed countries. Since we are talking in this case about the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament, I would like to point out one thing - not a single member of this draft is made up. Each one has been taken over from the already existing rules of procedure of the developed parliamentary countries, notably the French, German Ikanad. It has been mentioned several times yesterday that some of these things are not true, that some of these members do not exist in any of the Rules of Procedure. You'll allow me to mention several members, above all the German and French Rules of Procedure, who treat the same things that treat this draft. So, a member who speaks of the inability of an MP to read the already prepared speech, exists in the French Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, and that is Article 54. Also, there is a member of the 32nd Rules of Procedure of Labour who, however, allows notes, but denies the possibility of reading the pre-prepared speech. Of course, I'm not adjudicating this and I don't want to say it's a good solution. I think that's where the opposition MPs should meet and that this member should be expelled because, first of all, you can't tell anyone in advance what they're going to say at the pay phone. After all, when you talk about exact topics, you can't and Priory can't talk by heart. You have to quote certain data and certain figures. On the other hand, the issue of fines also exists, above all in the French Rules of Procedure on Labour, which is a member of the 73rd French Rules of Procedure. So, with the difference that I believe, in this case, the Serbian Rules of Procedure on Labour should adapt to the labour law that provides that the maximum discipline rate can be 30% of the salary. In that sense, I believe that the suggestions that have been made here should be respected. The mentioned story about Article 77. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There was talk of the right, or sovereignty of the MPs of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, if that is the case, if this Rules of Procedure is thought to in any way denying the right to speak, then I will remind you of one other thing - then the electoral system, we are all elected, anti-constitutional. We've all been chosen by a proportional electoral system. The bearers of our candidates are not sovereign MPs, but the parties who have run us and the lists, or the Catholics who have run us. For example, in case my party is unhappy with me, I cannot stay in this House, but the party will pull me out and put someone else in my place. So, if we speak this way, we must be aware of one thing - the parties, hence, and their parliamentary groups are the bearers of the mandate of the MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is a natural thing, therefore, that parliamentary groups formed from certain coalitions of the political parties themselves are the basic bearers of work in the republic's own parliament. For this reason, I have another suggestion relating to Article 4 of the abovementioned decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. on the pre-latest position, where it refers to MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups. I repeat, we are all selected by a proportional electoral system. We were nominated by either the coalition or the parent political party. (President: Time. ) Therefore, it is clear that no MP alone could have been able to vote for entry into this parliament, if it hadn't been for the party to apply him. For this reason, I believe that this earlier position of Article 4 should be thrown out of the said draft of the Rules of Procedure, because it must institutionalise the political scene in Serbia and give a stronger character of political parties, at least another ten-fifth of years, until a creative political mile is created that will later be able to modify election systems. In this case, I believe that proportionality should also be maintained in the work of the Republic of Serbia Assembly, that part of its Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12566	The word has a People's MP Neda Arneric, followed by a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12567	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People, I will rely on a colleague who spoke before me. He was a good introduction to these three questions I'm going to ask myself, to you and to the public, about changing and changing our rules of procedure. First of all, the amendments and changes to this Rules of Procedure, especially the things concerning the time limits of exposure, should, in my opinion, be the most affected by those of us who belong to the largest coalitions and parliamentary groups. We've actually been denied the right to individual promotion, because we're not going to be able to all get in line. Small parties will even be able to come to order. The second question, why are there in this building a huge office, a lot of service, why are there working groups, committees, why are there parliamentary groups? To bring solutions, findings, objections to what is already on the agenda, and I absolutely do not see that this hall is a place for personal promotion of MPs, who talk here as if they had not previously agreed with their fellow MPs or with their colleagues from the base. Therefore, I do not think that this hall should serve to make personal, individual, but established views and remarks. Then, of course, everything would go faster and faster and shorter, and that is how I hope it will be, and representatives of the parliamentary groups will express our opinion. A third thing, just to remind you, and since there is a constant mention of the abolition of democracy, the abolition of the right of MPs to public opinion and so on, it seems to me that in 1995 I have been voted to suspend public transfers from this assembly. Of course, we have no idea what to do, even though after yesterday it occurred to me that maybe it wouldn't be bad for us to talk about it so we don't break the level of this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12568	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic, and after that, MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12569	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have quite the opposite of understanding the concept of urgency and emergency procedure. For me, it is urgent that something should be done under the circumstances when the house is on fire, when the flood, when cataclysm, especially when it comes to solving all the burden on Serbs in Kosovo and those exiles from Kosovo. Certainly, as for Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, and the promoter believes that in an emergency procedure, we should discuss amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia. Why is that? I guess that's why, first of all, we take away the right of an MP who has given his opinion that he's been talking for 10 minutes like he's been talking for five minutes. The very act of estimating an opinion implies that someone has some argument, some evidence, some facts they want to make. I'm not sure it could be in five minutes. We had an example of a fellow MP who last separated his opinion on the judiciary and it was useful to hear from him why he did it, and it lasted as long as it lasted. Now we want to limit it. By emergency procedure, we also want to take away the right of the presidents of the parliamentary groups to speak three times so far, but once in 10 minutes. Should they have the opportunity to say in the opening statement what they are pushing for, to give some further explanations at the very stage of the discussion and to have the opportunity to finish the discussion. Of course, by an emergency procedure, they need to be taken away from it and reduced to just one 10 minute occurrence, and maybe it doesn't take that long, because they know in advance what kind of decision to make. By an urgent procedure, it is necessary to abolish the right of every MP to come for this pay phone and say what he thinks about a certain point, rather than transfer it to a parliamentary group, to allow him to deal with the law within the parliamentary group. The emergency procedure requires discussion at any point of consciousness at five o'clock, and I ask what are the criteria for which, by what method, gentlemen of the promoters, you have found that it is five hours, which is the method, explain that method. What does that mean? In principle, the aim of each debate is to treat in one critical, analytical way what is related to the agenda. That therefore means that anyone can and should, who thinks he can contribute, report and participate in the debate, depending on the subject and the number of debaters. The number of debaters, therefore, will determine how long it will take. If someone's calculated and has an exact or at least approximately exact method for it to last for five hours, let's explain it and see if it can fit into our idea, and can it even fit into what's proposed here. So if that's not the case, then all the other members who talk about it absolutely need to wipe and change. By emergency procedure, we want to derivate the right of the People's MP that, if he thinks that the Rules of Procedure is injured, he is talking about it, we are already giving this right to the president, the head of the group or someone to whom it is determined. Please, do we discriminate between the rights of the Members of the People. Both are MPs, except the one in the situation, has a coordinating function in the group. Also, by emergency procedure, we want to ban an MP from reading what he wrote or from looking at it like I'm doing right now, to expose what he has to expose. Please nice, it's an individual thing how anyone will expose what he imagined. Someone may have a phobia when it comes to microphones, cameras, but it needs to be allowed to bring out what he intends to say, what he wrote down or said he would talk about. But we're in an emergency procedure and we want to put an end to it. By the same urgent procedure, we shall take the right of the MP to state his reasons and objections through amendments to individual proposed members and shall give it as a right to the group. Please, it is not possible to transfer the right of MPs to the right of the group. You can't say - just one amendment to one member within a single parliamentary group. The proposals that fall within the pearls of the imagination of the promoters, which refer to the members who foresee fines for giving the measures of warning and estrangement from the session, I will not say a word because I do not find a decent term to characterise the stupidity of the idea of monetary penalties for the MPs to take the knowledge of the law. Then what's the emergency here? It is urgent to withdraw from the procedure this proposal, it is urgent to activate an earlier working group composed of representatives of all options and to make the working group a valid Rules of Procedure for the work of the National Assembly of Serbia, one whose useful value and duration will be longer than several sessions. So such a Rules of Procedure that will never and will never be a dedicated document for single use. It's an urgent matter, gentlemen, and I'm asking you to let us know about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12570	The People's Messenger Hranislav Peric has the word, and after him is the Messenger Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Vice President Maravic, I would like to welcome the members of the government, but they are, as a rule, never present here. I guess they went to get money abroad, so they never have time to come to the assembly. In the spring session of the National Assembly on the agenda was the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure, and then we resented that the Rules of Procedure were not good, that your changes were not good enough, but there was not enough time to see for yourself that you did not then move and make a good Rules of Procedure, and that we did not change the thesis, so when we had nothing to put on the agenda of the Assembly, and we put the Rules of Procedure, we do the Rules of Procedure, and we do it on many occasions. Again, you are proposing amendments and additions, and there will be no wonder if by the end of the year there is once again an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, because you will soon see that the one you are proposing today is not good. There are plenty of MPs in this House who participated in the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly in 1994. I would ask you to read the stenogram from that session, so you will see what you were saying then about the Rules of Procedure who was much better and with greater democracy than you suggested on two occasions. And then the Rules of Procedure was held for several days, but then you spoke and criticised the Rules of Procedure, why does it bother you today? This is just another sign that all you want is for every MP who tells you what you don't like, you say, stop, I give you a warning, I give you another warning, I take away your word. In 1994, you told this speaker that the Rules of Procedure was unconstitutional, to prohibit the right to speak, to take away the right of the MP to give the voter's opinion, that the speaker of the Assembly would have the role of educators in the child's kindergarten, or of an elder in the barracks, or of the director of the KPD, would lose the role of Parliament's president. I won't be surprised if one day in this House we get a dictionary that we can use, and if you say a word that isn't given in that dictionary you'll be punished. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the intended criminal measures, they have no meaning at all. Then the president of the assembly would have to be one of the judges, or a lawyer, someone who understands what a misdemeanor is and what a fine should be. The draft decision does not provide for disciplinary bodies, which are to be chosen by this assembly, the disciplinary procedure, as well as the violation of labour obligations. A particular reason for erasing the principle of the proposed decision is an infringement of the constitutional principle, since legal protection is not provided for the measures put forward. And finally, I want to compare the proposed Rules of Procedure with sport, because in political theory, the multi-party system is represented as a political match. This Rules of Procedure has as much weight as if in football these current rules were replaced by, say, the following rules -- the player can't get anywhere near another player within a meter, he can only hold the ball for 20 seconds, no free kicks, no fouls, no kicks to the goal. So to get rid of the rules all the things why fans love football. That's how football is destroyed. That's how this Parliament is doing, so the political game that our voters are watching is being destroyed, that is. Our fans. And at the very end, don't forget -- however black the Rules of Procedure you do, we'll find ways in it to bring out what we want and what voters require of us, that there are more important issues to be found on the agenda of the Assembly. The other day, Deputy Prime Minister Covic made a statement -- all cities in Serbia will be attacked by terrorist groups from Kosovo. Why doesn't a member of the government come to the Assembly's pay phone to say that? There's no time, there's more jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12572	Compared to sports, we're not the most successful, we're the most successful in basketball and handball, where the limitations in holding the ball exist, and in football, where there's no limit, we go the way we go. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12573	Gentlemen, as part of the reforms and all the changes that have taken place in the last year, which bring about and in the interest of democracy betterment, prosperity, and all because of this people, there is another amendment coming to us, not only the amendments, but the addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The third time, and as the President of the Assembly said, this is because the commission that has been formed hasn't written a letter in months, so now we're going to make some changes here, not just changes, but additions, but we're going to be discussing the Rules of Procedure again soon and again for the fourth time, to bring a new one, because this one is already old and run away. Who, we about the Rules of Procedure, and that fine, brilliantly, one fraction of the DOS parliamentary group, from the DSS, brings also a brilliant new solution to the Rules of Procedure with 17 members. You know, the skeptics are going to say -- democracy is choking, skeptics are going to say -- it's being taken away from the MPs to speak, the skeptics are going to say -- it's going to be charged here, like with cops, immediately. But these, gentlemen, are the skeptics who want to prevent what? To allow an MP to speak, to go out for this pay phone and say - expensive electricity several times, gas several times, harder to live, health chaos, in school, production falls. That's what he's talking about - just the work. Please, it must be known here who is destroying the liquids of the petoctobar revolution and it must be known that this liberating struggle must last, it must not be interrupted. After all, one year gentlemen, what is one year, it is very little, in 100 years it will be better, I am convinced and sure. It might happen to someone to come out here and, using the Rules of Procedure, accuse this government of nepotism, so they say the presidents of the state write, or the women of the president write the Constitution, women of some ministers send laws, aunts something else. No, I think that it must be fully protected by this congregation, the public, to prevent anyone from in any way endangering everything that is the interest of the majority in this congregation. In 1994, a lady signed here, from this faction, handed over a thousand amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, I won't name who it is. So was morale one, and today it's another? But what's for sure, gentlemen, don't rewrite this -- the Germans in that member, this French; why do you take all the worst, you won't be speaking German here for this speaker. Shut it down, gentlemen, fire with gasoline. The more restrictions, the more terror, you show fear and cause more resistance. If not at the pay phone, then at the rally, like on Friday, at 15 o'clock in Novi Sad, you'll be told what we think of you, and the people will follow through with their reactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12574	There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, let me explain something to you - football has been going badly since the '90s, when politicians took over football management, and today the DOS has taken over. Serbia's Football Union president is from New Democracy, he was formerly from the SPS, and as long as there are politicians in football, it will go bad. So much for your information. As for the proposal of this new Rules of Procedure, you first refer to the Constitution. We know that on October 5, 2000, the Constitution was suspended. We know there's no Constitution, the Constitution only exists on paper. When it's supposed to apply to someone, and most of us don't. They write it as it suits them. Since this Rules of Procedure is quite unconstitutional, when should we appeal to the Constitutional Court, who should we appeal to? We haven't even had a Constitutional Court in a long time. Is there an institution where MPs who think the Rules of Procedure are unconstitutional could complain? Whether you admit it or not, this Rules of Procedure is certainly one of the most shameful acts to be brought into this assembly. Since 1991, there's been everything in this room. They beat us, bullied us, changed our rules of procedure, etc. We've put up with it. They'll suffer this Serbian radicals, too. Don't mind, the SPS acted just like you did, but the boomerang came back. He was much stronger than they thought, and you'll be back in boomerang. You'll see what it's like when a boomerang hits more than it should. I'd just like to mention two things. The Democratic Party and the DSS are accounted for through this assembly booth and through the Assembly. The Democratic Party of Serbia wants to prove and has proven more than once that the DOS is a protagonist, Zoran Djindjic. That's what you can do at DOS, but not here. As for the restraining order, they were trying to ban a lot of things they were trying to ban. They tried to ban some films from Italy 35 years ago, but they didn't. Today we'll reactivate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12576	The word has the People's Messenger Dusan Ilic. Let Anita Beretic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12577	Perhaps five hours of debate for one law is not enough, however, it is one question that we can discuss here and which most will propose, or support or challenge. But what is certain is that this proposal came about as a result of the irresponsible behaviour of individuals in this House. We're sitting here in front of cameras and in front of the public, which perhaps some previous council members didn't have; I'd like to explain and clarify some of the delusions and some of the delusions that are spreading from this pay phone. First, is the increase in the efficiency of Parliament's work contrary to democracy? I don't think so. MPs in their 30 minutes, or parliamentary groups, have enough time to make their arguments. I believe you will all agree that repeating the arguments does not strengthen their strength. Usually when your arguments are weak, you slap your hand on the table and make a circus. So that's the first one. Secondly, the parliamentary job isn't just a speech in the O.R. It's the committee's job and work. Are we contesting this rule of law? I don't think so. Then, we don't even dispute the writing of the amendment. Do we dispute contact with voters? No, I don't. So that's also something we need to clear up. Do we prevent MPs from contacting and controlling the government's work? No, on the contrary, we're introducing impelation as an entirely new institute of control and contact with the government. The question is whether it should do 50 MPs or less. But let me remind you, 50 MPs don't have any parties within DOS. So that's something that doesn't stand as an argument to you. But what's very important is that the interpretation can trigger more parties, so only when the question is serious enough. In order for different parties to programmely agree that the issue is the most important at the moment and that the resolute minister must appear before parliament. In the end, the way you work. The way parliament works so far has obviously been more controversial because of individuals. I think yesterday's events -- getting out of the O.R., getting some stuffed toys -- are the best indicator that this proposal by the Rules of Procedure is the right way to clear up these problems. Of course, there is also an amendment to this proposal to be supported and to be discussed seriously. There are amendments to MP Mucic, Mr Ispanovich. I believe most MPs will seriously consider them. Unfortunately, there are amendments, such as amendments to various shootings of balls, so MPs can catch balls to get to words as soon as possible, and various amendments related to the carrying of refrigerators, TVs from the house in the event of punishment, which best tell us that we are on the right track and that we are best told that this should be supported. I urge you to vote in favour of this proposal. [[Alexander Vukic, from the place:I'm looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12578	That's the name of the drop-off from the scene, please. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: He called me for the amendments. It's not for amendments, it's just a name. But if you care for up to three minutes, go ahead, but it was neither offensive nor misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12579	I don't understand why you care about every time you try to be the supreme arbiter, the one who's gonna salt your brains out to all the MPs. I don't mind that at the end of the line. As far as interpretation is concerned, I must explain to the predecessor that the essence of this is not the right interpretation which is a legal - political institute, for the simple reason that the interpretation in the legal theory and in legal practice is one institute between parliamentary issues and a request for a government to be removed. In this way, you have set such restrictions in the process of putting up with the interpretation, so that 50 MPs can do so in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (but don't throw away...). those who have no idea, who haven't read any books and who don't know anything about it), fifty MPs are needed and these are usually from parties that have three voters, not counting those from the DSS, who have something more right now. So the interpretation would make sense if it were possible for 20 MPs to do so, so that the government would be forced to go out much more often in front of the National Assembly, to answer here in front of the MPs, from certain areas of social life, or from the work of the ministries. At that time, the interpretation would make sense, and it is so much more mandatory and significant, as a legal-political institute, than an institution of parliamentary issues. As for the fact that some have spoken about how and how it is limited in certain parliaments to freedom of expression.... Here, I've taken off... We downloaded an Albanian Rules of Procedure from the Internet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12580	It's got nothing to do with what you've come forward for, Mr. Wolfie. Don't mind if I deny the right of the People's MP to speak, but he still has to talk about what he said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12581	I'm done. Will you let me finish? Here's in one sentence. You cannot be banned from speaking for less than 10 minutes in the Albanian Rules of Procedure either. Now, what is the democratic code of procedure you're talking about? And in the Philippines, no less than an hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12582	According to the Rules of Procedure there is a Mr. Tomašević, you will now hear why.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12583	Gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 99's 2nd position. The Rules of Procedure, which says that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Mr. Vukic has repeatedly insulted us all here, calling us illiterate, ignorant, etc. How does Mr. Wolf know what anyone's reading? (Glasses -- you can see that. ( See, it's true to see, you can see what we can see. Stop with the... Mr. Nikolic. The second thing, as far as popularity and influence in the electoral body are concerned, is to look at the gentlemen of the public opinion survey, where Serbian radicals are. Read it. They're gone at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12584	The replica, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12585	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think that those who are correct, and even from the front lines, if they are from the ranks of the government, will say that I have never said anything ugly to anyone, unless he has spoken to MPs in the worst possible way, thrown them away, sometimes even cursing. Sometimes even cursing in the worst way. Not when the president of the National Assembly comes out and curses his mother to all MPs, but it's not because he thought the microphones were off, it's because he's making it up. And I told you because someone threw so inappropriately and so incorrectly that it was completely obvious that no book had ever read. If he had read any of the books in the legal-political theory, if he had read the book of Slobodan Jovanovic about the state, it would be clear to him that I am right about what I am saying. And that's not true that I said we were illiterate, but don't forget that yesterday you applauded what some said we weren't human, that you can see that we only have a head because we have a headache. So much for your morality, so much for your honesty, so much for your correctness and so much for your respect for the National Assembly. And as for popularity, sometimes you can have 0.1%, and obviously we don't have, it's obvious that we have much, much more, even these choices where many people have come out, like in New Belgrade, show that we're coming up to 20%, but you're thinking about what you're going to do and how you're going to explain to the people what you've done, what the president of the party's wife writes to you in the Constitution of Serbia and Yugoslavia, which makes someone else writes to you and the Rules of Procedure here, worse than the Albanian Rules of Procedure, which makes life more difficult in Serbia. Perhaps you will convince people that Milan Stojadinovic is guilty. Maybe that's what he's guilty of, and Slobodan Milosevic, I don't know who else anymore, but that time is slowly but surely running out. Now the sandstone is on the other side. Your time is passing, and ours is coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12586	The word has a folk MP Anita Beretic, followed by a folk MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12587	The Honorable Presidency of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, of course, I believe that this debate did not have to be included, that happiness was in our work so far. I also believe that the Rules of Procedure, which we adopted the winter after the constitution of this new democratic assembly, is quite fine. All right, because I naively considered, reading and understanding the rules of conduct, and the Rules of Procedure is, amongst cultural people, among educated people, tolerable people, many things are simply understood. Well, since many did not mean the rules of conduct that were not written but go with our titles, the simple proposal for amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly was extorted. Of course, I support absolutely the proposed changes and additions because I believe that this home, that this assembly must be the mirror of Serbia's new face. Unfortunately, for these eight or nine months of our work here, this pay phone, this home, was unfortunately a place of frequent dissipation of hatred on all grounds, by full, by national, political, religious, has been spread offensive and very often low and leprosy expressions at the expense of many of us. As for limiting these or those rights and freedoms, there have been a lot of words about it, and I would only refer to the thesis that the new rules of procedure will simply significantly undermine the huge contribution of opposition MPs, which is often illustrated by a very large number of amendments made to the proposed laws and other decisions. With a great apology from the public and with the permission of the president, only illustrations are working, I will say several examples, I don't know why the applicants during the debate were not representing and defending their amendments, and some of those 600 amendments by opposition MPs say this way: "After the opening of the search, some MPs receive a word in the following order: women towards the length of the skirt, with those who wear shorter skirts having the advantage, MPs of the Social Democratic Union, men of the parliamentary majority, other MPs of the male sex." Or, for example, (I must stress the apology here and repeat to the public that this is a quote from the opposition MP's amendment): "In article 91, after the word "deposit", it is stuck and they add the words "and if the MP is ready to shriek, fart and three times loud". In Article 100, new sections 4 and 5 are added, which reads as follows: "With the measures laid down in Article 2 and Article 3 of this article, appropriate sanctions are applied, fines, kneeling on corn, standing in the corner, hitting hard." "The President of the National Assembly gives word to the MPs in order and method known as the draw of matches." After article 88, a member of 88a is added, "The president of the National Assembly throws three balls of different colors among MPs - yellow, purple and green. The president of the National Assembly gives a word to the MP who caught the yellow ball, while the other two MPs who catch the other two balls compete in drinking whiskey. During that time, the Assembly is awaiting the outcome of the competition. After the competition's over, the winner gets his word. If more than three MPs are to be registered for debate, the president of the National Assembly shall release among the Black Cat MPs and two cats. An MP who catches a black cat by the tail gets an immediate word, while the other two cats fight with the MPs. The next to receive the word are two of the least scratched MPs." It's been a formal-legal procedure. "The MP who has been warned is being punished by taking away the television. Because of the breach of order at the session, the President of the National Assembly can say the following measures: removing a pen, warning, addressing a single person, singing in the ear, etc.". "The presence of opposition MPs is punishable by 20 lashes," the establishment of a panel on the production and distribution of intoxicating drugs, cigars, cigarillos and whiskeys and so on. Until, for example, the proposal of the 15th amendment of an MP who, among other things, says that the MP who was given the measure of distance from the session is being punished by death and suggests that this decision enters into force on 5 October 2000, explaining that the armed revolution and the turkeys took over in Serbia on that day. As of that day, revolutionaries have been burning and burning in Serbia, and that is why the rules of procedure should be applied to all earlier cases. I'm sorry, gentlemen, there was no armed revolution that day. A democratic revolution was carried out that day, and from that day on, Serbia washes itself, and this worker on work will be a modest contribution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12588	The People's Messenger Golub Rajic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12589	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, at the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there was a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by a group of 41 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, with a request to consider and make an urgent procedure, regardless of what the current Rules of Procedure adopted in March 2001. The reasons for this decision are to create better conditions for working and preparing sessions, as well as more efficient work in the upcoming period when increased activity is expected to adopt more laws and other acts. This is said in reason, but I am surprised that this proposal for a decision comes from the Democratic Party of Serbia, from a party that calls for legality, democracy, respect for the Constitution, and this very proposal violates the Constitution and undermines MPs' rights in the most harsh way and instead of democracy introduces repression and dictatorship. In accordance with Article 77 of The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the MP, enjoys immunity and cannot be called on for criminal responsibility, detention or punishment for an opinion issued at a pay phone in the National Assembly. With this proposal, the constitutional rights of MPs, above all the right of citizens to speak, are limited. It limits, and further reduces, the time that has been set for MPs and shifts to parliamentary groups and their representatives, which certainly hampers democracy and parliamentaryism. This kind of looks like a delegative system where we MPs are going to transfer our time or our right to someone else, and we in this congregation, in addition to representing our own parties, represent the citizens who chose us, and the environments we come from. I don't understand, the post-pressive proposal by the Democratic Party of Serbia, how we will meet it. If what is proposed and adopted, MPs will be a voting machine, raise their hands for and against the proposed or offered solutions, but they will not be able to make their views or those they represent, so we do not have to come to the Assembly to make huge costs, which is here and out. Let the presidents of the parliamentary groups agree on everything. We can also abolish the Assembly, as the Government rules, but I wonder if it's democracy. Articles 1 and 2 of the proposed decisions may also be acceptable, as they introduce and regulate the work of the privatisation committee, but they are mainly misunderstandings and mistrusts by two of the largest parties in the DOS and are therefore proposed to form a committee in order to at least a little control over the ministry and government. Members from 3rd to 8th determine the duration of the session, the duration of the debates, the order is determined and they are unacceptable, as they shorten the rights of MPs and their acceptance will disrupt parliamentary democracy in Serbia. Article 9 determines that the MP cannot read his or her presentation, except for the quotes of the appropriates, which is certainly unacceptable and rather ridiculous. So is your party president, Mr. Kostunica, and other politicians read normally and I see nothing wrong with that. It was he who said in 1994 that the elimination of parliamentarians from the work of parliament that Serbia is returning to the one-party. What does it say today about what's been suggested here? That same year, Vladan Batic said the MPs would remain silent, and only to speak extremely, and that by restricting the discussion, speech freedom is limited. Then the MPs spoke twice in 10 minutes, each could propose more amendments and there was no fine. You also said there was no democracy, that it was an authoritarian regime. What is this today? If such a rulebook were then proposed it would have reached all international forums, they'd probably have imposed sanctions on us or who knows what else. Articles 10, 11 and 12 are repressive and cannot find a place in a democratic parliament, until Article 13 can also be accepted, as the right of MPs is denied. When it comes to interpretation, it needs to be amended anyway, although it is also a product of DOS disagreement. If you're a Democrats and you care about the legality, it's best to pull this out of the process, because you're going to be an opposition someday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12590	Replica, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12591	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is often said here that someone wants to deny MPs the right to participate in the work of the Assembly. First of all, work in the congregation is not to be viewed, not to be viewed, and it is not only designated as work at the meetings of the congregation, but rather as working on committees. Professional discussions conducted on committees are the right place to do so. The fact that someone comes to committees and board meetings to take a diary and not participate in the work of those committees, because he thinks it doesn't belong to him enough or has some other reason, so he can criticize, criticise, and not improve the bill or some other decision, is another matter and we can discuss it. The point is, and in all parliaments it is that all the draft laws, the proposals for decisions, the proposals for acts taken by the assembly are primarily fundamentally searched by committees, committees for this. Believe me, gentlemen, there are many times and there are those who participated, there are sometimes and the Socialists argue that they participate in the work of the board, and they can testify that there are opinions, professional and political conflicts, and that committees sometimes know to be more interesting than meetings of the congregations themselves, and that is one of the most important ways in which the Assembly works. The other thing is, there's a lot of talk here about the lives of other people, the president of one party, the other party. The wife of the president of one party is involved in scientific work, the wife of the president of the other party has a private firm that trades in artificial fertilizer, the wife of the president of a third party may have something, but everyone does their job and needs to take care of it. The fact that someone wants as a person to make a contribution to change in Serbia is faster, as there are those people who are professional and who do not want to engage in parties, but want to contribute to certain projects, thank them. At this point, we need all the help in Serbia from all the people who are willing to help, so that judging someone because they want to help Serbia finally get out of the decade-long glyb is more than bad, more than malicious. Anyone who wants to help is welcome, changes in Serbia should be faster, and we therefore estimate that every well-intentioned place in the reform process and does not have to be a member of the party. It is enough that he is professional, has a good will and will be accepted by any of us MPs or anyone else who participates in the reform process.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12592	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12593	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 96(2). My esteemed colleague, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, mentioned the Socialists, mentioned them in a positive light, and that's good. However, I would like to talk about something else, and that is why I am reporting to clarify some things, because the replica was on display by the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs. It is clear that the key work in preparing the session, that it would be done as it should during the session, and that the citizens of Serbia would get our decisions a legislative space and miles to improve the work of the economy, for a better standard, takes place on the committees of the Assembly. There I absolutely agree with MP Michael, because it is certain that there is a need for safe and fair work on congregation committees. However, the essence of the thesis does not stand. Indeed, with your proposal, the DSS proposal, the MPs' rights to speak for this speaker are drastically reduced. We all know what the point is. The point is that after this speaker, and him earlier, and me today, they can look at all Serbian citizens and have the only chance of hearing the real truth about what happened and what's going on. It is enough for you to see last night's media reports on our session and to think about the argument that has been made here responsibly, honestly, without any additions, with all due respect and respect, and to realize that no argument has been made by the MPs here about what is wrong and what freedoms and constitutional rights MPs are choking with this proposal has found no space in the media. So here we are talking about the fact that indeed realistically 7-10 times the right of MPs, in a time frame, to speak, in relation to the previous Rules of Procedure that was brought in at the time of most Socialists in 1994, is being consciously and intentionally done, just to reduce the window of truth towards the citizens of Yugoslavia. Where you'll set a better example than what's going on in Novi Sad right now. In the TV Bridge, which spreads the truth, police officers and judicial executioners attacked to shut down that television, and they had already shut down the transmitter. What the police are doing and the bailiffs on the TV Bridge are doing here is making a proposal for a Rules of Procedure, I apologize, DSS. They may be bothered by some of the guests who were or should be in the next few days, and that's not right. That's exactly what we're talking about. So, work on committees, and that's where you should work properly, safe and responsible. That's why the citizens chose us. But let that Rules of Procedure that you said was non-democracy apply, and you narrow down the rights even more. (Honey Angelkovic: Don't knock.) ) Explain what the esteemed colleague, who sits at Mr. Rake Radovic's place, said. She told her fellow MP, by the way, to the university professor who proved his values, "don't knock." Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12594	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here's another example of the Rules of Procedure's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12595	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 95 and 96. Member of the 95th was injured when the president of the DSS parliamentary group spoke offensively about the wives of fellow MPs or I don't know who he meant when he said "the husband who deals with the trade in artificial fertilizer". Let him say whose wife it is, what's her name. We know who does scientific work. It's Zorica Radovic. It used to be common for us to read journals on papers like "Bazar", such as "Long", and now we have to read constitutional proposals. If said and clearly indicated who is involved in scientific work, then let a colleague say whose wife trades it with artificial fertilizer. Secondly, you gave Mr. Ivkovic the right to the Rules of Procedure, advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, he took advantage of a possibility that is, unfortunately, the only possibility to point to your tyranny, what you do, how you shut down television, everyone you don't like, and TV bridge. And when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vojislav Seselj, make every effort to prevent him from coming out for this pay phone, or any Serbian radical. When an MP comes out to the Rules of Procedure, it is defined to specify a member who is injured. After quoting that member, he has the right to explain himself. You have double arches.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12596	Aren't you the radical, so I didn't give it to you? What's this about? What were you even complaining about? Do you know what you objected to? You have no idea. You went out to abuse the right to report to the Rules of Procedure. This is my answer. So, you've established a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you believe that, as President of the Assembly, I should have given Mr. Michael's notice because someone's unnamed wife, the unnamed president of the party, was listed as the person who deals with the trade in fertilizer. What's offensive about who's offensive? Who did he insult with that? I don't understand the essence of the objection. Peasants throw artificial fertilisers at fields every day. What's offensive about that, Mr. Mircic? If you think the National Assembly needs to make a statement, it will come out. Should he plead? Yeah. ) I ask the MPs to declare whether the use of the word "artificial fertilizer" is offensive to anyone. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Let's first determine the voting quorum. ) Please establish the voting quorum. I'd like to ask the service to perform a count of those present in the O.R. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. He can't, there's no quorum. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: With this gesture you are committing a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have no basis for counting. Yes, I counted. Apparently, appliances don't work. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: it is obvious that the appliances are not working.) I find that we have a quorum to continue the session. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Did you give yourself a hug? And that's how it can be, now it can be, don't shut up. You're messing up a lot with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12597	You have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. The quorum was determined using the electronic system, you requested a count and you did not inform us that the electronic system was not in operation, as was your duty under the Rules of Procedure. Only when the electronic system does not function shall the count be performed. After that, when the MPs of the SRS came out, no count was made, Mr. President, even though you said from a pay phone you were sitting in to look for a count and no longer operate the electronic system. The electronic system can't work or not work the way you do. If you have determined that the count should be done, please complete the count. This playing machine no longer leads to anything, because it is not in the function of determining the quorum. You asked for a beating because you thought there were more MPs than there were cards in the MPs' units. I'm asking you to finish that count, not step on an MP any way you want. First, you couldn't ask for a count, but when you've already asked for it, do something at least once so we can know what consistency is, will you always count us, will it be enough to insert the cards. This really doesn't lead to anything anymore, Mr. President. Otherwise, the member is 80 and the position is 4, 5, 6,...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12598	Yes, and to me, the criterion is that the electronic system works - the record of your presence here. I know you wouldn't be sitting in the O.R. breaking the Rules of Procedure and not putting a card in the MP's unit. You wouldn't, you say so yourself. So, as soon as I see that your card isn't, and you're here, I'm guessing that the system isn't working, I suggest counting, and I realize that the system is working as soon as I see that your card has been accepted. It's my safest way to determine this technical problem and solve it. Does the Assembly need to make a statement? Of course, you and I both know what this is about, but let's break it up, I'd really like that. Until you stop, you'll have to do this. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I want us to vote on this. I ask the People's MPs to make a statement about this violation of the Rules of Procedure, objected. First it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and then it's about artificial fertilizer. For two (even Mr Mircic was not), against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 24, and a total of 130 MPs were present. The Socialists didn't vote, you saw who didn't vote. You want to re-establish the quorum? Don't object as soon as it's requested. Please confirm the quorum. There's something wrong with our system again, sir, according to the same criteria. I'm asking the Service to check, now we're going to see because the system isn't working, obviously. No, once you're in, I don't know if you're in, we're waiting for the system to work. Here it is, worked, no need, worked the system, and thank you very much, 129, 130, I realize we have a quorum. According to the Rules of Procedure, before the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12599	For the first time I am going out, probably last time, to draw attention to the fact that the Serbian National Assembly's Rules of Procedure is being violated consecutively. It's always the same provision from the same group of SRS MPs. Paragraph 3 of Article 80 states that the quorum is determined by applying the electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is required to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting an identification card into the parliamentary unit. Why do Mr. People's MPs not carry out their duty, and most of all they object to breaching the Rules of Procedure. Why, gentlemen, are you in violation of the Rules of Procedure, why are you disrupting this work of the Assembly? I repeat what I said yesterday, the amendment to this Rules of Procedure is due to you, to stand in the way of your abuses, to slow down this Parliament's work, to impose costs on this people. Are you serious people, MPs representing some voters, who are you at all? You bring cats, toys here, you stand for these amendments that are just a few moments quoted. Please, Mr. Michael, as one of the authors of the proposal to amend this Rules of Procedure, here with a delay, that, after this position, a new position will be put in the 80s, which will be said: "If when a quorum is determined by electronic means it is shown that MPs who have not inserted their card are not paid for the day". The Serbs should hit the pocket, like this. [[Tossing: Shame...]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12600	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12601	It is easy for Zahari Travcevic, he will die peacefully, ate the lamb and pig in Tito's time, propagating the destruction of Serbian agriculture, and now came before the end of this life, before the beginning of the tomb, to attack Serbian radicals. I'm not surprised at him, the medicine says a man of a certain age should stop eating meat. I recommend a vegetarian diet and eggs, you have to use it, but not the one you can't, but the eggs in your diet. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12602	Mr. Nikolic, I know you can't be raised standing behind this pay phone, but try to adjust your language to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12603	It's late, I'm 50 years old and I'm no longer raised.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12604	I know it's late, but the Rules of Procedure are Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12605	Either you put up with me like this, Mr. Martian, or take measures, and you're certainly not going to change me. They couldn't have done it any more insolently than you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12606	Well, it's a shame to change you because of the criteria you're establishing, but I'm warning you that you're violating the Rules of Procedure. I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12607	Now I have to ask you, on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure did you give me a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12608	Based on your use of bold expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12609	On the basis of which article, state to me and quote this member of the Rules of Procedure, as I am obliged every time to the said member and quote him. But to finish, most beautiful please, gentlemen, you who are in power, I don't believe I will have such problems with those who are currently in power, don't provoke us, don't challenge us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12610	Mr. Nikolic, you have received a notice under Article 101, indent (one, two, three, four, five) six.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12611	All the way around?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12612	No, after six.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12613	Don't send any more men like this to provoke and cause a fight. You can yell whatever you want, but the predecessor has stopped at three SRS MPs, wanting to cause a fight and a fight. I don't see any other reason, except for mental disorders, for a man to stand by an MP and provoke him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12614	Mr. Nikolic, I take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12615	What kind of way is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-03-0.u12616	That's the way, after you say someone's mentally disturbed, I take your word for it. I didn't let you speak, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Nikolic, I have not allowed you to speak, your word has been taken from you. Mr. Nikolic, you have to take care of what you say about the pay phone, otherwise you have to put up with it. You have no right to replicate, so sit down, please, Mr. Trnavci. Mr. Nikolic, please leave the pay phone, your word has been taken from you. (Tomislav Nikolic stands behind the pay phone. ) Will you fulfill your obligation to leave the pay phone or will we have to interrupt the session? (Alexander Vukic throws out of place.) ) Mr. Vukic, if you do not understand anything, look at the stenographic notes, read what Mr. Nikolic was saying about this speaker and you will understand. Why are you throwing it out of place? I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. [[Resume work after the break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I realize we have a quorum and we continue the session. Mr. Nikolic, who has been taken away from his word, needs to leave the pay phone so we can continue our work. Mr. Nikolic, for the last time, I ask you to leave the pay phone, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I have nothing left to offer to the National Assembly to bring a measure of distance from Mr Tomislav Nikolic's session. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this motion by voting. For 118, against 9, the abstentioned one, did not vote 11, a total of 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision, namely a measure of distance from the session of the People's MP, Mr Tomislav Niklic. I ask Mr. Nikolic to honor the Parliament's decision. Will you honor the decision of the National Assembly? (Tomislav Nikolic will not leave the room.) ) I set the necessary time-out, according to Article 104, for the implementation of this measure. We will use this break to continue the work of the Legislative and Administrative Committee, to pass all these amendments once again. A break would have been given anyway for the implementation of this measure as referred to in Article 104. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 p.m.
