ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13757	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we held in our conversation with the Presidency before the beginning of the session that maybe we should increase time to seven and eight hours. My proposal is seven hours of debate in principle. This does not extend significantly, but given the importance of the topic, it should give MPs the opportunity to discuss and make their views known.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13758	This was a proposal that seven hours would take a total debate time. If there are no other suggestions, I'm putting Mr. Michael's proposal to the vote. For 74, against 77, the abstentioned four, did not vote ten, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. It found that the total time of the debate in principle for the parliamentary groups was five hours. I find that the time per Member's group is as follows: 1. Group DOS - 2 hours and 6 minutes; 2. DSS Group - 54 minutes; 3. The SPS parliamentary group - 44 minutes; 4. SRS parliamentary group - 27 minutes; 5. Assembly group of SSJ - 16 minutes; 6. New Serbia's parliamentary group - 9 minutes; 7. Socialist Group of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina - The League for the Shumadi - 8 minutes; 8. DOS parliamentary group - Vojvodina Reformists and Sandzak Democratic Party - 7 minutes; 9. The DOS parliamentary group- Movement for Democratic Serbia - 6 minutes; as well as, of course, the right to debate the presidents of parliamentary groups and board members, which do not enter at this time. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to submit the lists of speakers. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13759	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, you have before you a law on the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, which should round up institutional support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. As you know, our economy and the entire economy are in transition. The transition must mean the maximum use of the existing resources we have in Serbia's economy, which means by privatising to improve financial and business performance. At the same time, we find, because of the economic results of what they are, and behind which the debts and high accumulated losses in the economy are high, we realize that it is necessary to build new jobs. Therefore, privatisation needs to raise the quality of existing jobs and to increase jobs through privatisation in all those companies that will be privatised, which are attractive enough to privatise, whose future is economically based. At the same time, our task is to create new jobs in transition. There are two ways to build new jobs: one is direct large "granefield" investment, and the other is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Both institutional and legal rounding is necessary for one way or another, in order to actually achieve this. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises also requires institutional and legal rounding, in order for a strong idea of building a flexible economy to really be achieved in practice. Small and medium-sized enterprises in all countries in the world have really great importance, and if you look at, percentageally according to the number of enterprises, all developed economies do have predominantly small and medium-sized enterprises. Large businesses do not go beyond 10% to 15% in total. I am talking mainly about developed European countries. Small and medium-sized enterprises are very important for creating dynamics and balances in economic growth and economic development. Small and medium-sized enterprises, if the concept of their development is adequately set up, should mean a faster exit from the transition recession. As I said earlier, it should mean dynamicizing economic growth, creating new jobs and developing entrepreneurship. The development of the initiative, the development of innovation, should be seen in a large number of entrepreneurs in our economy. However, it is very risky to leave the development of small and medium-sized enterprises to themselves, or to allow this process to run completely spontaneously. In order for this process to be fully effective, legal and institutional support is needed. There was one very wrong belief that it was necessary to pass a special law on small and medium-sized enterprises, where specific laws would exclusively apply to small and medium-sized enterprises, and that generally economic laws, those not covered by this last law, would regulate the area of major economy. That's not true and it's the wrong concept. The economic system, the economic environment must be exactly the same for small, medium and large enterprises, where, when adopting individual commercial laws, which tang the economy, the specificity of small and medium-sized enterprises must be taken into account. With this in mind, I am prepared to inform you that an inter-minor group of several ministers from the so-called "major" has been established in the government of Serbia. the economic part of the government, whose task is to fully analyse, before economic, economic laws are proposed to the Assembly, the extent to which these economic laws can also mean supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is about legislation, which should define frameworks for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, it seems to us that much more important institutional support is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, because the experiences of developed European countries and countries in transition say that everywhere there was institutional support, there was no compromise of the idea of developing small and medium-sized enterprises, and everywhere institutional support was coordinated, from the central level and then brought down to the level of the region and in particular the municipalities, what was wanted was achieved, and that is one, I would say, a very effective way of building a flexible economy that is seen in small and medium-sized enterprises. In particular, institutional support means the establishment of a central agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, for entrepreneurship in general, while at the same time establishing a large number of regional agencies that should implement defined methodological frameworks at the level of the central agency. What is the relationship between the Ministry, the central agency and the regional agencies? The ministry is there to define the development policy of small and medium-sized enterprises, the central agency is there to define a unique methodology for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and regional agencies are tasked with implementing what has been defined by the central agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In order to ensure that you do not wrongly conclude that only today we are going to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, I must inform you that, together with the European Agency for Reconstruction, seven regional agencies have been established, namely regional hubs, which should mean supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and implementing a methodology defined by the central agency. At the same time, it was established together with the co-founders, so private entrepreneurs, municipalities, by the government, several regional agencies, specifically in the Jablanic district, in Mačvanska, in Kolubarska, in Shumadija-Pomorravska; and already some of the results are down there. So, the central agency that we are now setting up is a cap that is supposed to mean a unique methodological approach in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and which should mean delegating specific tasks for implementing the development policy of small and medium-sized enterprises by regional agencies. Why is that necessary? The beginning of every business is high-risk. There are a number of potential entrepreneurs who have good ideas. But from ideas to implementation is a long way to go, which starts with the creation of a business plan, with the education of entrepreneurs how to run their small business tomorrow, so finally - the withdrawal of the credit line by banks, and ultimately - the beginning of the whole project. Experiences speak (and let's just look at the experiences of our neighbouring countries, I specifically think of Bosnia and Herzegovina) that where there was no single education policy, a unique methodological approach in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, happened exactly the other way around. Not that the flexible economy was not developed in small and medium-sized enterprises, but these potential entrepreneurs went bankrupt because they had to withdraw financial loans to pawn part of their private assets. Why did the bankruptcy happen? Because they didn't have enough access to methodological information -- how to prepare for the start of a new business. Therefore, the agency's task is not to lend loans to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, but to prepare entrepreneurs for the start of business, i.e. the realization of their entrepreneurial ideas. In this respect, the central agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship will have the following tasks: firstly, to dynamic regional economic development, to address unemployment issues more effectively and both formally unemployed and informally unemployed, (you also know that today we have a large number of formal employees, who also need new jobs); firstly, to launch entrepreneurial incubators, to work on the development of innovative centres, the education programme, to encourage entrepreneurial initiatives; to enable more rational use of existing business space, equipment and capacities that exist in the context of social enterprises and are not used; to provide all the necessary advice, to inform, to provide instructions for entrepreneurs in production, to give short examples of certain laws that address the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises; and ultimately, to propose, to provide all necessary advice from small and medium-sized enterprises. If you understand, we have three levers for a successful transition policy. One is privatisation, whose goal is new investment, investment in the economy, wherever there is economic foundations for the future of these companies that will be privatised. The other key strategic leverages are direct, new large investments in industrial pro-pulsive branches and we will make legal and institutional concessions and create a policy of industrial development. The third is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The task of the first strategy is to improve the quality of existing jobs and to develop new and privatised enterprises. The other two's task is to develop new jobs in new primary units. In order for all of this to happen, legal, institutional support is needed, and the institutional support we propose is the result of the experiences of those countries that were most successful in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, where I primarily think of Scotland and Ireland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13760	Do the committees want the word? No, I don't. ) Two MPs have issued an opinion on the Committee, do they want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13761	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have issued an opinion on the Committee first of all because of what I believe, although we have just heard that this as a concept is not good, that we should first pass a law that will regulate support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and private entrepreneurs. Generally observed, I agree with the need for the same environment for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for those who are not. But if we want to encourage something, if we know it's something on very fragile feet, that what we are doing now is mostly contained in laws, or in some ad hoc actions, then for these reasons we felt it would be good to first pass a law that would oblige the Government of Serbia to adopt an annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, this programme should especially provide for: development directions and priority types of work for which support is provided, in order for entrepreneurs to know what is what is pro-pulsive; then, the achievement of basic directions and forms of support for small and medium-sized enterprises; the infrastructure development programme and support for small and medium-sized enterprises at the republican level; encouraging the employment of unemployed persons; providing resources to support small and medium-sized enterprises; and finally, ensuring the transfer of scientific and technological results, as well as innovation programmes. Of course, these programmes should be coordinated with the development programme of the Republic, self-employment programmes, environmental protection programmes, etc. At the same time, we felt that there was nothing to support if no material resources were found or if it was not predicted that this would be done, so we felt that the law should also form a fund for loans and guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises of the Republic of Serbia. Support for small and medium-sized enterprises should be realised: by adopting and implementing its current and long-term guaranteed policies, in agreement with the government's economic policy; then by collecting and effective use of financial resources to meet the objectives of support for small and medium-sized enterprises; by participating in the preparation and implementation of the procedure for selecting beneficiaries of funds; by approving financial resources in accordance with the principles of banking operations; by carrying out the function of the guarantor for the undertaken commitments of small and medium-sized enterprises in accordance with the law; by controlling and carrying out audits of the dedicated use of funds, etc. We didn't get all that in this proposal. We've got a proposal for the agency. I don't want to comment on that proposal, because it's basically correct. But I'd like to comment on the idea of what we should do first, in our opinion, and that's why I'm offering this argument that I'm making here. I would like to remind you that, in time, a concept of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises was proposed by the SPS parliamentary group. This was not accepted on that occasion, among other things, because of the reason that we will make a more comprehensive and complete text, that we will use and experience that exists in developed countries and that we will then have an answer to solve this problem. We had several meetings on the Committee on Economic Relations and Development so far, where experts from abroad came, especially from Italy, so they presented their experiences, etc. None of these experiences are now in this proposal. That is why we believe that support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises should be discussed more comprehensively, and this means at the same time discussing both the law and the agency, and the fund. Now, if we're only discussing the agency, let me do a digression -- it's like a man's shoes in the morning, so he's wearing a shoe and wearing a sock over it. Theoretically, it's possible. Logically, that's not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13762	Mr. Todorovic - an opinion taken at the Committee session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13763	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, except for what counterpart Slobodan Tomovic said, I have issued an opinion on the Committee on Development and Economic Relations, among other things, and because I fully understand that here is the conceptual difference between what the Ministry of Privatisation is offering and what the SPS stands for. Not only because we were legislators of a law that was not accepted in this assembly, but because it seems rational to think about, at least at this stage, in the next few years, how long the transition would take, we need to have a law that would support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The transition is inevitably bearing, I guess we are witnesses: a recession in the economy; this non-balance between large and small, which is talked about in the explanation; the necessity to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises at this stage, in order to be able to accept a number of workers who will inevitably be out of work in privatisation processes. So it seems to me today that the proposed law on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development represents a car without an engine, because there are neither banks nor funds designated in any way, that it will participate in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, except that it is mentioned that the Agency will, among other things, have the task of proposing the deployment of aid. I underline the word "help" because I don't think anyone reasonable in this House can develop small and medium-sized enterprises, and this necessary balance between large and small can be based on uncertain assistance. Even if the aid were certain, I suppose that a foreign aid is meant, we would have to balance for each year the corresponding amount of funds that would be regulated in a legal manner towards the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, we do not see from this text of the law the original means that will serve the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we are so keenly committed to passing an appropriate law, which would, for example, define that part of the funds achieved on the basis of privatisation is necessarily put into the corresponding fund, and then from that fund, under conditions that are acceptable to the level of interest, to encourage development, in particular new programmes and new employment. This is where it's lagging out. I'm not saying the government may not be working on it, but it can't essentially tell us what the scale of the funds planned for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is. Perhaps we are not as important as those future entrepreneurs who might conclude that the state is taking care of them and creating opportunities for them to enter this transition process, in a way that would define their future performance. What else can a man say here? Among other things, it's about professional help. For me, the whole text that applies to it is not controversial. I could say that even the explanation given by this proposal is extraordinary, excellent. But, in my understanding, it can primarily refer to only something called the Small and Medium Business Development Act, because the agency is part of a job that, in the context of this whole activity or, if you want, campaigns for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, should be carried out in the future. That is why it is also illogical for me to use, among other things, the revenue that the agency will make on the basis of the services provided in the future. Does this mean that in the future, the agency will help those who need help to charge for these services? What are the services that the Agency and to whom will do, and that it will charge them, and then there will be income? The minister tells me that the agency will issue an account to the state for services it performs in terms of helping small and medium-sized enterprises. Then the question is, why don't we define the appropriate fund and regulate it by law, and then there's the state? (President: Time. ) For these reasons, I gave my opinion, and since I applied for a regular discussion, what I failed to say about this time, I will say later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13764	Are the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? First, Mr. Ivkovic, then Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13765	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President and Mr. Minister, I can't help but think that we're discussing something that already exists. Namely, I had the opportunity to see a card from the Director of the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we are currently in a position to discuss something we should not discuss at all. Without this assembly, the government of the Republic of Serbia can build an agency for small and medium-sized enterprises under all applicable laws, without any additional law. If we know there is already an Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, if we know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can have no problem forming an agency as a legal person, we wonder why we have to do all this today and spend, someone says, 15,000 state marks. We don't need to discuss the law at all today. Then the rest of the ladies you like to iron, the only thing we have left to remember is that joke that's happening these days -- bow down, bow down, it's only important that the train goes. Which is an ambience at all when we are discussing this law, a law that, I say again, is absolutely not necessary, because the agency as a legal person can establish a government without any approval of this assembly. And she did many things without asking the Assembly, and even violated one five-six members of the Serbian Constitution on June 28th this year. What's the setting? The environment is next - we have an increased tax on all economic, legal and physical persons. The grips are about 2.2 times bigger than those last year. We have the Privatisation Act, which the minister here really said would increase the number of employees. And to anyone who deals with this job, who knows the history of events in countries that -- a pesoriatic term -- in transition, knows that accelerated privatisation in a limited period of time, when crisis headquarters have made economic potential massacres almost stop, there will be a sale of social property, and we will essentially have 500, 600, 700,000 new unemployed on the streets of Serbia and Yugoslavia. There is no talk of increasing the number of employees without systemic support, without using money from privatisation, primarily for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. One more thing, the labour law, which is in the procedure, which we have been silent about and not talking about these days, although I believe that we will honor the agreements with the unions that we had as parliamentary groups, foresees the absolute right of the future employer to define how many employees they will have in relation to the number that they find. So we all agree on the idea. Small and medium-sized enterprises should be developed. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the chance for the existing unemployed and new unemployed to reach market-oriented business programmes, which will find space for their products not only on the domestic market but also on the foreign market. Small and medium-sized enterprises are a chance for our economy to complete the production, intellectual and service miles that are needed to reduce imports of repromaterials, services and equipment from the foreign market. So it's true, the minister is right. There is no need to leave the development of small and medium-sized enterprises to the verse. They should be managed and therefore the Socialist Party of Serbia, through its parliamentary group, proposed a full law, a law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In this law, this assembly, which adopted it, directly obliged the Government of the Republic of Serbia to systematically operate to create an environment for the development of those business programmes in the areas of small and medium-sized enterprises that would be useful not only for employees to have personal income and security, but for the economy and development of this country, because these business programmes will cover the lack of those business programmes that require today importing certain equipment, importing repromation or the development of those service activities that we currently do not have sufficiently developed and exploited. So, the essence of the proposal was to support the development, the systemic support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and if you want to conducting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises by using the knowledge and intelligence of the Government that is responsible for this, the governments that will stimulate and their resources, if necessary by broadcasting bonds, the development of those business programs that need this society, which need this state. It was a real law on support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is an absolutely wrong finding, said the minister, that this is the wrong concept. That's not true. He may not have understood. The law on federal-level enterprises has never been touched by anyone. It was understood to apply to all enterprises, but this was followed by a law on support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. That's the point. Why was it important to adopt a law on support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and why is it really a waste of time to discuss today the agency that the Government could have formed without us completely and under all applicable regulations? As far as I can see, according to the amendment, that agency will be a self-government system, because the agency will be managed by employees. As far as I understand it, that agency will even take a commission on what it does and the fact that the government through the agency is creating companies that will, on the principle of income, operate. The other aspect is the village. The village is an important component of life in Serbia. The village cannot live on its primary agricultural production. The village was also needed today as an injection in every sense, in terms of offering business programs suitable for the village, rural environment and if you want primary agricultural production. The development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country would create a motive for all population structures, especially young and women to stay, live and work in the country. By doing so, the banks would have motive to approach the village and we would have a direct impact on the development of the village. That is why it was an idea, through the law on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, that the government of the Republic of Serbia systemically defines those business programmes for which there is an interest in developing in the countryside, including that the government, through a missing fund, stimulates the development of these small and medium-sized enterprises. These funds were exactly foreseen, they should be filled from both the privatisation process and the bond broadcasting process and, if necessary, from budget funds, because the interest of the state is to develop a village, among other things. So, there is no saying that the wrong concept of the law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, because it provided a complete state support system for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and meant the uniform validity of the company law at all levels, both for large systems and for small and medium-sized enterprises. This law on support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises had a specific task agency, which I would talk about in the next time I went out, but it also had a fund that the agency was relying on, a fund that had capital. What is the concept now proposed by Minister Vlahovic? He proposes an agency that we do not have to set up at all, which has finally been established and there is already a director (Penezic) of the agency for small and medium-sized enterprises in the government. I've got that card, and if it's necessary, I'll bring it for the pay phone. So now we're wasting our time, we're absolutely wasting our time considering the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, which already lives and which the Government has already established and could have established without us. What's this agency supposed to do? It should help the minister form a strategy and provide services. What kind of favors does he give? Some knowledge, but since we already see by the amendment that these services and that knowledge give money and that agency, besides the government, manage employees, then why do we spend time here? Why are we even discussing this law? What is this law for? That law is a piece of shit. He was taken, it's a third of the laws on support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. But there is no substance, there is no obligation that the Assembly has the right to impose on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to tell the Government that by assessing the current situation, assessing the consequences of the tax policy, the consequences of the Law on Privatisation, the consequences of possible labour law, the knowledge of developments in transition countries, where a large number of new unemployed were, the Assembly has the right to impose on the Government to systematically influence the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, linking domestic knowledge and smartness, the needs of citizenship and the need to develop economy, complementing the economic environment. That's what the Assembly had to do. Unfortunately, you have missed it, but it is not too late and we accept that this law, does not say who is proposing it, adopts it because there is a fund in that law and then we have a set: we have the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, its policy; we have a trust that the government forms, controls and stimulates the development of small and medium-sized enterprises; we have an agency that, on behalf of the Government, on behalf of this assembly and the people, is doing that job. It's a complete system. What seems to be happening to the agency, which already exists, is essentially the insistence that the agency connects foreign banks, which will now enter the deleted area and drink blood to those who form small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13766	The word has the People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, then Dragan Markovic, and then Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13767	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, ministers, the law is needed and in any case the concept of developing a Serbian economy through small and medium-sized enterprises is something that is good and necessary in Serbia. We see that the time of the great industrial giants, who slowly die in Serbia, has passed. So far, the way in which the economy is arranged, as some have seen, through these same factories that would employ 10, 15 and more thousands of workers, is not the future of any country in transition, not one country in Europe, so it shouldn't be with us either. It is a good intention of the government to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The concept of government and state should now be that small and medium-sized enterprises develop. We highly appreciate Minister Vlahovic's commitment that all agencies, stemming from the jurisdiction of his ministry, are being governed by law. We got the Privatisation Agency Act, we got a bill on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. Excellent co-operation with the minister has also shown this time, especially when discussing our amendments, which the government, as well as the ministry, have adopted on this bill. Unfortunately, there's always one but also here. The Democratic Party of Serbia, as known in the public, withdrew from the government of the Republic of Serbia precisely because it was dissatisfied with the government's way and concept of work, where several regulations, which regulated certain areas, came out of jurisdiction and were contrary to legal order. One of them is a regulation on the General Secretariat and other services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has been completed twice, set up 12 special organisations, one of which is the Communications Bureau and 11 agencies. Since the power to establish all organisations is explicitly in the power of the legislator, this is regulated by Article 94(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Serbian Constitution, we in the DSS insisted that all these regulations, which are contrary to the legal order and which insult it, be put out of force, be abolished and that afterwards we can discuss all other things and aspects of the work of the Serbian Government. It is particularly important to point out that the adoption of this Regulation, which established agencies, has deprived the right of the National Assembly of the law-making process, which would educate the Bureau and 11 agencies, to assess the integrity of the existence of those agencies. Perhaps we can say that we are sorry that the minister who wants his agencies to establish a law simply isn't the one to talk about at this point, because in our current co-operation we have always encountered a correct relationship, but simply that regulation prevents us from discussing the essence of this law. The essence of this law is not controversial, the law is good and in any case something that needs Serbia. As this is about flagrant unconstitutionalness, a complete overlap between the ministry's jurisdiction, the agency, and now this law, we need to see how things are going to work and how we behave. If we still consider that the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can, under the regulation, open public competitions for the use of aid funds, and that this jurisdiction is not provided for in the draft law and action of the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, we are wondering whether the government agency of the Republic of Serbia will continue to do some work. Who will be the one to assess when the agency will operate under the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and when, under the law of the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, when the regulation will apply and when the law will apply. Is it two agencies or is it one agency? Which agency will have more power? These are some dilemmas that, I believe, none of us here in the Assembly can solve. Only one agency can be valid, and that's the one agency established by law because it's so prescribed by the Constitution. How in this situation as a previous issue, before voting on this law, we also raise questions about the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are set up agencies and special organisations, the question is that we finally go to work under the Constitution and the law. If, after the repeal of that Regulation, we declare this agency, it should be brought to life as an agency based on the Constitution and the law. That's why the DSS will present to me during this debate our objections and praises to this law, especially that this law should create the future of the country's natural development, that it is not contentious and that the law of the minister who accepted the DSS's objections. We will insist that a regulation of the government of the Republic of Serbia be repealed, establishing agencies and communications bureaus. If this does not occur, when voting on the law in principle and later on in particular, we will be abstained. It's something that's being asked as a previous question and it's something that will depend on our vote. If this does not come to pass, the DSS MPs will be abstentioned in the vote of this law, unless this government regulation is abolished before the vote. We believe that by doing so, we will simply open up the possibility and show all other ministries that agencies are being set up by law. I did this procedure, and that is what Minister Vlahovic said, that agencies are set up by law, gives the DSS arguments that she was right when she said that agencies cannot be established by a government regulation and that agencies must be set up by law. That is why we expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia to abolish the agency, to abolish the regulation, to declare this agency, to declare the draft laws on all other agencies, and thus to break the practice that existed before, and which is now continuing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13768	Before Mr. Markovic, the word is Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13769	Ladies and gentlemen, I have missed my opening statement to give an explanation, which is likely to resolve many dilemmas in the National Assembly. First, by establishing a Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, based on this law, which I hope you will vote during this debate, it automatically ceases that there is an agency established under the government's regulation. So, the same people who work at that agency are going to go to the agency that we're setting up under this law. The first thing I want to say (and hopefully I have shown enough in my work so far that when I give the word then it will be done behind it) - the current Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, which was founded on the basis of a government regulation, is actually trying not to waste time, trying to use that first infrastructure. Since the first day of the ministry's intensities, it has been that we have a law on a central agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises (which we talked about at the last meeting, when we talked about privatisation), that this law opens up a space for the establishment of regional agencies and that the central agency has a methodological impact on the work of regional agencies, which are responsible for the implementation of the programme of education, the development of incubators, innovative centres, then, single databases, interpretation of laws, removal of all barriers to the development of entrepreneurship, etc. So what we're talking about today, and that's why I want to give another answer to the dilemma -- whether the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act or the Agency Act is an anatomy of small and medium-sized enterprises development. In order for a process to work, the process to be successful, institutional frameworks, institutional support are needed. It is not good to form special funds and take a step back to the conducting centralist economy, but it is very good to develop a service that does not want to be a government service directly, but rather a central agency service (so, regional agencies) established by the National Assembly of this Law, to support the idea of passing into practice. Because what the experiences say in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and apparently that the Members of the SPS parliamentary group have not consulted the experience, says very clearly that all projects have failed because of unbalanced and incorrectly defined ideas, because these ideas have not been adequately elaborated. I'm not afraid that there will be no financing of the project of small and medium-sized enterprises, because, believe me, the financial sector today, as it is, rather invests in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the support of private entrepreneurship, but in the development of large gigans. So to sum up this story of mine, the establishment of the agency automatically ceases to exist and that there is an Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, which is based on the government's regulation. Secondly, we are talking about institutional support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, not how it will be financed. Third, don't forget, the Privatisation Act says that part of the privatisation revenue will just go to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. And fourthly, there are, gentlemen, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which for ten years has been the service of the failed large social systems, and through which the money "Telecoma" has been passed, and which everyone owes in turn, but unfortunately not private entrepreneurs, not small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been the subject of attention in the past ten years, but social systems, large state systems, and then funds, because these funds have been placed in all other ways, and at least in an economically-based manner. In this way, as we suggest, we will by education raise entrepreneurial knowledge and entrepreneurial initiative, so that the idea can be crossed into practice, which is small and medium-sized enterprises, building a flexible economy. And please, whenever we want to do something, we don't have to invent hot water or look for a pothole, we just need to take advantage of the positive experiences of those countries that had the most efficient development of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is based on the experiences of Ireland, the experience of Scotland, which has shown that only a developed network of institutional support can indeed be created new entrepreneurs and, instead of having 300,000 employees in small and medium-sized enterprises today, we have to have at least four more employees in small and medium-sized enterprises tomorrow. We think institutional support is the key thing and that it needs to be separated from the way it is financed. The question of whether or not some legal regulations interfere with the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is a question that must be discussed before any economic law generally ensuing the economy, and therefore there is an inter-minor group, which, through its own hands, before the government's decision before the board, passes the proposal of economic laws and says that, these members are intruding, this bothers. Tomorrow, when we have a law on local self-government, regional agencies will work on a more efficient procedure for the development of entrepreneurship and new businesses. Therefore, I ask you not to mix physiology with the anatomy of the development of private entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is not good. Funding is one story, institutional support is another story, and we are talking about institutional support today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13770	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13771	The replica refers to the following - the SPS is mentioned. But before I say so, Mr. Minister, there are transitional and final provisions in every law. You should be trusted by your word when you say here, but in your transitional and final terms, it does not appear anywhere that the adoption of this law ceases to apply to the agency that I have said, and you have confirmed, that it already exists in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, in transitional and final terms, it does not say anything. That's the first one. Secondly, around small and medium-sized enterprises we don't need to convince each other, because the man standing behind this speaker is also how the affirmation of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the need for them, as well as this SPS, which I belong to. With a few thousand small and medium-sized enterprises in 1990, we arrived in 2000 at 160,000 small and medium-sized enterprises, and in this hall there are many owners of very successful small and medium-sized enterprises, both in the area of production and in the area of services. Even in Vojvodina, 50% of enterprises belong to the category of small and medium-sized enterprises, and 50%, by weight, by capital, belong to social and state-owned enterprises. And now let's get something straight -- one thing is the agency, the agency is the service, but the agency is one leg from the table. Which without at least three legs can't stand, on two legs at all. Please, we are entering a period when, in addition to the existing unemployed, there will be a significant increase in unemployment, caused by very rigorous tax policy, significantly increased tax cuts that motivate employers to fire workers, because they can no longer withstand the tax burden. Two, we have the Privatisation Act under which, in a limited time period of business, massacred by crisis headquarters that have been suspended, they are going to sell. It is known that Cementara Popovac sells the value of the annual production of Cementare Popovac. No one gives a concession for a lassorac that's taken to keep Popovac cement working, but we'll talk about it when it's time. Therefore, we have an increase in the number of unemployed ahead of us, especially when the labour law, if there are no important interventions, is on the line. Small and medium-sized enterprises must be a big step... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... All countries, but let's talk about Italy that did the most, where Italy had the systemic support of the Government of Italy and the development of the agency. Otherwise, for the record, the law that the Socialists proposed was not called a law on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. He was called a law on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and he had all four legs from the table. This means that the Serbian Parliament would thus order the Serbian government, Mr Vlahovic, you know as well as I that surely finances can have a different category, that they can have different interest, that they can have different graces - periods and different times of repayment of loans that are necessary to achieve and develop small and medium-sized enterprises. The government of the Republic of Serbia that would issue bonds, loans, which would have different charges, would certainly have much longer grace period, much lower interest and much longer credit repayment deadlines, than the green banks that you will bring to help them develop small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13772	Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13773	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Soviets had an MP's club, and I must remind you: of the 14 MPs we have eight employers. We have agreed to vote for this law, although we have several objections. I'll tell you what the SS's objections are. Article 7 may lack point 8, which would make some promise to new small and medium-sized enterprises and current small and medium-sized enterprises, to help them financially. Who are the new owners of small and medium-sized enterprises? The new owners are those who have lost their jobs, and perhaps that is, in percent, one 60% of professional people; specifically in the flag, there are at least 500 people who can be owners of small and medium-sized enterprises, but without some credit they will not be in a position to create this small company that would employ a number of workers. We also have an objection to Article 9, where it is said -- the president and three board members are appointed from the ranks of representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. Maybe it's missing - in the city where the agency is formed. Yet, in every city, owners of small and medium-sized enterprises know each other and know who might need to be given a loan. We think it's missing in this article. Also, in article 10, it may also be missing - in the city where the agency is located. I am the amendment and proposed to the Privatisation Act, that if a factory is sold (in particular in the Pomoravska County, because I am from Jagodina, for example, the sales of Cementara), part of the funds go to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises for the town of Paracin and other cities in Pomorava County. It may also be missing, I think the agricultural producer who deals with agriculture, so let him have just one pig and 50 acres of land, a small company where he feeds his family, and that he has the same rights as the owners of small and medium-sized enterprises, that he can go to that agency and seek some help or advice. It is known that the farmer does not need advice, he needs specific assistance, financial assistance. Since it does not work for the agriculture minister - but it does not miss a week to go hunting - to propose a part of the agenda in this assembly, where we will discuss agricultural producers; that the farmer can go to that agency and ask the agency, and that the agency be a mediator (I would ask the minister to follow, because I would ask for his answer) where he will find oil every year. The peasant could buy regressed oil, and now he has no one to complain to. At least go to the agency, go and get specific advice, or the agency guide him where he can provide it. Also, when it comes to loan for agricultural producers - the farmer has no one to complain to, he goes to the president of the municipality, and of course the president of the municipality says that it is not his authority to help the agricultural producer, who will go to the agency, newly formed, and to seek credit to buy a tractor, as is done in other developed Western countries (not only when it comes to the price of electricity to compare, that the price of electricity in a country is much higher than we do). In the case of the price of a agricultural product, i.e. a repromation for a agricultural producer, a farmer who has 5 hectares of the country cannot feed his family. I hope that the minister, Mr Vlahovic, will make a promise that at least in some subsequent law (if he cannot complete this proposed law) he will have in mind this segment in a society that has been neglected for the past ten years, and nothing is better now; that agricultural producers will be able to go to the agency and ask for some help. This proposed law does not provide for small and medium-sized enterprises that have been in existence for 20 years to seek help. Such companies don't need any advice. All those who survived in 1992, 1993, 1994 know very well how to behave, both economically and marketly, so they do not need such advice. They need financial help. What's the criteria for it to be? Not to be a criterion - as is the case - you can't be a judge if you're not a party member, you can't be a SUP chief if you're not a member of that party, you can't be a school director if you're not a member of a party, etc. Make it a criterion for the last five years to look at the final bill. If the company's been doing business successfully for the last five years, I think it's one of the conditions, number one, which the company needs to meet and get a new loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13774	Thank you. Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mr Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I would call this law a toy, because our privatisation minister forgets that he is a minister for both business and privatisation. But for the economy, it would've been better if it hadn't been for the job, because all we had left is the letter "p." I admit the minister is an expert on privatisation, but he's an economic intern. It was supposed to be two ministries with two experts, or we could find a man who's an expert for both. The minister saw only the smoke of factory chimneys and assumed that something was going on in them. Indicators have made it clear enough that the economy has been run since it was in the hands of this minister, especially indices that compare this year to past, the extent of physical production, which are catastrophic. The minister here owes us a report on the state of the economy, on the state of privatisation, to tell us what he's been doing for the past ten months. Our minister performed here as a messiah. The privatisation minister is coming, the state is going to finish privatisation, we're going to get all jobs, and even without those six billion dollars. In fact, we disappear slowly, Mr. Minister, politically, DOS kicks us all over the seams in Serbia. And, well, it's a big credit to you, because I could put that credit on your manners as a sign of a quote. You owe us a report - what happened to the car factory in Kragujevac. Is this principle so good if it is good that you do not apply it to other businesses in Serbia, and if it is not good to tell us: what will happen to the flag if a good principle is not applied. You owe us a lot here, not to be the service of consulting firms from the world. Here, let me try to analyze this law. The law is passed on the basis of an obligation arising from the adoption of a federal law (somewhere at the end of September or 27 September of this year) under an emergency procedure. In one day, the material was distributed to the federal deputies and the law was passed at another, extraordinary session, held on the same day that a session was already scheduled. What will be the task of this agency? It will serve as an institute through which part of the funds from alleged donations, which are only a way to pay consulting firms from donor countries, will be transferred. The 6m-dollar funds -- as planned to help our small and medium-sized consulting companies -- go through foreign investment agencies, privatisation agencies, small and medium-sized enterprises development agencies and the Ministry of Business and Privatisation. Article 4(1), point 2. - funds for the establishment of the agency, as well as funds for work, very similar, are provided from donations, contributions, sponsorship of domestic and foreign legal and physical persons. The terms and conditions of using donation funds are precisely defined, from purchases on the domestic market of less than $50,000, international purchases of less than $100,000, hire of consultants, where the donor - the bank approves the selection of consultants by procedure of consideration and approval, even at the stage of planning, selection and previous consideration. They are not controversial donations in themselves, if you provide them, such as the one for which you praise the Vice-President of the Federal Government of Miroljub Labus, that he has provided. As many of them as you can get in the country, because otherwise, you can't even secure the funds anymore. But in this case, the agency for small and medium-sized enterprises is just a passing account of Western financiers. And in the case of a privatisation agency, these donors are also sales agents in the form of consultants and investment banks. Article 7(1), point 5. The bill provides for the establishment of a single information system. The bill was written a few days after they showed up here in the country and IBM, and Bill Gates. This is a preparation for the jobs they will receive, for which someone will grease the mustache in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So much publicity to give the richest people in the world, they don't need it, they need those who want to work with them here. In Article 8 of the Director, the Government of the Republic of Serbia appoints and dismisses the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And why is this job not available to Serbian citizens? Why isn't there a competition for the director of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency? Article 13. Finally mentions what the purpose is: "For the performance of certain professional tasks under its jurisdiction, the Agency may hire other legal and physical domestic or foreign persons". Well, because of those foreign faces, the whole law exists. We're writing a bill here for a six million dollar donation, which, I warn you, with $4,730,000, will be implemented on the services of individuals and companies, including the audit. Don't tell us here about regional agencies, about the support, I ask the MPs not to stick to this bait. What sort of tractors for agriculture, what resources, fertilizer, protection. Out of those six million, five go straight to foreign consultants. Next, if you need more information, I'm ready to give them to you. Not bad, ladies and gentlemen, for the record, not bad, this is well imagined. You will destroy the great economy. Don't talk so bad about her. We're all born and grown up thanks to big businesses. Our fathers from the village wouldn't have moved if it hadn't been for these big businesses. We'd still be cutting down the woods and selling in a town, if we could even sell it. Never go crazy and meanly talk about a big economy. That's the time. Now we're smart enough to figure out who was wrong 60 years ago about what he was doing to Jellyzar in Smederev. Well, that's the kind of mind none of us have. Do you think someone in 60 years is going to call you for what you're doing today? It's supposed to be called today. Big companies were founded. Big businesses built this country. She came in a crisis. You don't need to lock them up. They need help. Let it be fully executed, here I confess, destruction. Do whatever you want with the economy, just secure the production. My skin creeps every day when I read how much the factory stops working. And here you are telling us about the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Which one? Self-involved, already present, who survived despite the fact that they may never have had any support. What do they need it for? To form new small and medium-sized enterprises? Well, that's fine. But solve our big business problem. You solve the problem of tens of thousands of employees, who expect to go to work every day, what happens to them. Solve the problem of schooling in large businesses. The flag now has an education drive. The largest number of employees in the flag works in the flag education, and that's our goal? They teach the locksmiths to be welders, and the welders to be scavengers, and the strudel has a thousand on the desk. Grab serious business, don't every time the foreign nails send you some kind of dinar to strangle us here with the laws. Why do we need a five million dollar bill spent by strangers who'll go to strangers? What will our economy have? Land purchases? Read the newspaper, the Slovenian economy has entered Serbia, all live products of sales, and you are being naive. You sold them the best location in New Belgrade for the Mercator store -- and you think the people will believe that you want to help produce? Well, you don't know anything about it. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, unfortunately, today with mixed feelings I participate... No need, no need, it's stronger than her. [[Zagor, the comments from the gym are not heard.]] Today with mixed feelings...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13776	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13777	Here, I'm done, I'm supposed to celebrate and celebrate today. Glory is time for both grief and grief, and for happiness and a reminder of predecessors, a reminder of life. Unfortunately, my grief today was increased by the patriarch, Serbian Lord Paul, when he bowed down to you and urged Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to elections that Serbs should not go to. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13778	Please, Mr. Nikolic, if you have insulted the MPs so far, you do not have to begin with the insults of the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church. (Tomislav Nikolic leaves the hall: I didn't hear you at all. ) Repeat - that if you have insulted the MPs so far, it is not good to begin to insult the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13779	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, in principle, supports this bill. We consider this bill to be the bearer of the already adopted Privatisation Act. We, the Privatization Act, in a way, have commissioned all economic operators to privatize in four years...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13780	Sir, I have to interrupt. The word is made by the presidents or vice presidents of the parliamentary groups. You can only speak as a registered speaker, but in the order of parliamentary groups, now unfortunately not. You're the first reported messenger, so you'll speak in that order. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The first registered MP is Radic Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13781	As I have already said, we believe that this bill is complementary to the Privatisation Act, which this assembly adopted in the middle of the year and whose mandatory application is armed for the next four years. Counting that this law, despite those effects that are positive, will bear negative effects (mainly I think about the problem of a large number of unemployed who now exist in our economy), we believe that, using the experiences of other developed Western countries, as well as the countries in the environment, through the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, we will be able to absorb and mitigate the adverse effects arising from the application of the Privatisation Act. We know that our economy is now in very difficult conditions, because it works in an ambience that is very unfavourable and that is of a recessional nature because our country is over-indebted with over 25 billion marks. The internal debts are huge, about 850 billion dinars, accumulated losses in the economy are 650 billion dinars, so in these conditions, without any new thinking or way of working, we have no exits. On the other hand, we need to know that we have recently been one closed market, especially after the introduction of sanctions and the collapse of the old Yugoslavia, we have lost part of the market. The capacity that our economy owns has become too bulky, and then there's this situation that we're in right now. It is good that this law, in some ways, provides for regional agencies to ensure that regions develop evenly. What's the advantage of small businesses? The advantage of small businesses is that it is easier to manage them, which is more innovative, which is more creative, and which makes it easier to achieve those economic effects that are required of businesses, which means profitability. We are now exposed to an open market. Those who cannot fit into the world economy will have to shut down or transform, looking for new exits. Therefore, looking at these experiences and using the experiences of others, I think it is good that the central agency will take care of this synchronised development, so that there is no competition between our businesses, as it was in the previous period. On the other hand, the development of small enterprises does not require major investment activities, i.e. infrastructure investment operations, so it is much easier to do so. I say again, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13782	The next MP is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13783	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary has explained his bill. In his statement, however, he sought to point out that this agency will not play a role in lending to economic operators, such as small and medium-sized enterprises. However, Article 7 of this law has the authority to provide financial assistance. Given how the government of the Republic of Serbia has functioned so far, how certain members of the government have so far been receiving loans, and I am now hearing and assuming that they were probably getting loans from the agency established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that these same people, who are in that agency under that regulation, will now be in the one that is legally official. So I honestly doubt she's going to perform what she's created for. The funds that you will receive and which are small, from sponsorship and privatisation, will likely be directed towards the development of small and medium-sized enterprises of government members, because they have been taking loans since they have been mandated by government members. I would use my time, which I still have in my Rules of Procedure, to Article 82. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia raise my doubts about the existence of a quorum. According to Article 82(3), I suspect that the electronic voting system is correct, so in order to continue the debate, I believe that the quorum should first be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-08-0.u13784	It's not how the Rules of Procedure works, but we'll figure it out by electronic means. It goes by electronic means first, and then you can express your suspicion and get a list, etc. First, to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. Apparently, a large number of people went to glory, as he announced, but that can't be an excuse. We'll continue the session Monday at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 152 MPs attend today's session. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Nada Kolundžija, Vasilija Pavicevic, Radmilo Milosevic, Milos Lukic, Visnja Nežić, Branislav Pomorički, Branislav Grubački, Zoran Boskovic, Marko Djurisic and Dragor Hiber. In the morning he was prevented from attending Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, and after the submission of Lilić. Milos Lucic will be late. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You have accepted the resignation of Michael Markovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and Article 2(2) and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Mihajl Markovic, given his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time of his election, to the MP Michael Markovic, elected from the election list DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON THE AGENCY FOR THE RURAL IMPLEMENTATION OF Small AND Medium ENVIRONMENTS (continuing) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Velimir Simonović appeared.
