ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Jovan Todorovic, has submitted an amendment to Article 10. This is a member who is changing the existing Article 23. The law, in which something is defined in a vehicle carried out by a liner is to be found. There are four things, of which the right is a valid driving order, i.e. a photocopy of the applicable driving order, certified by the stamp and signature of the authorised person of the carrier, and other valid and certified price list. The amendment of MP Jovan Todorovic suggests that in Article 10, point 1, after the word "relevant driving order", the rest is deleted because, in our opinion, it is unnecessary to wear certified photocopies of the order of driving if the carrier printes the driving orders in the bookbook and is located in all vehicles. The thing is, of course, competent inspections to check whether the driving order is valid or not. The second point in the second word "verified" is to be thrown out, for the simple reason that the pricers are no longer approved, so they don't need their overs. I propose to the representatives of the government, and to you MPs to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14273	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 100, the abstention of four, was not voted by 12, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I know that neither the Government nor the Committee accepted this amendment, as I said in the principle debate nor the 35 other amendments tabled by the MPs of the SPS, the SRS and the SSJ. I suggested in the amendment that article 11 be deleted. To remind you, article 11 states that Article 24 of the existing law, after Article 1, adds a second position, which reads: "In carrying out public transportation of passengers and things in the territory of the Republic of Serbia it is forbidden to make cabotage." We are going back to the famous cabotage and debate we had on Thursday regarding Article 1. The law, which I have also submitted an amendment to delete point 16 from Article 1, i.e. that cabotage as a legal institute should not be introduced into law. I explained this not by causing any damage to the transporters in Serbia. That is when I said, and also in this amendment, that the motivation and reason for my amendment is related to the existence of the SRJ, to the existence of equality of the Republic of Montenegro and Serbia, and that it is about the equality of carriers. Or that we should not take any moves, including these kinds, which would endanger the right and resolve the issue of the common country. Since, Mr. President, you weren't at the moment when I spoke at the session, I also called on your interview in the daily "Politicals" last week, where you were just saying on this topic that we shouldn't take any action in Parliament or in any other functioning that could compromise dialogue and that what we are doing now is questionable. I call on you now to invite MPs to accept my amendment to Article 11, which deletes cabotage and remains as a legal institute in Article 1, and is not applicable. Therefore, the text in the public transport of passengers and things on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is prohibited from carrying out cabotage, is deleted from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14275	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14276	Although I have discussed this provision of the bill in principle, I must again, regardless of the obvious fact that you are not in the mood to accept the suggestion, to ask not only that we do not respond to the measures made by the Government of the Republic of Montenegro, but that we do not begin first. The information we received from the government's representatives, that the ban on cabotage on Montenegro's territory applies to carriers from Serbia, is not correct. I even inquired about the driver from Serbia who drives on bus lines to the sea. For example, Kragujevac's "Autosaport" has a reciprocity 1:1 with a private company "July 15" departure from Cetinje. Cars "Autosaveja" from Kragujevac can at any station they have registered in Montenegro to join passengers and passengers can get off the bus. For example, in Podgorica, passengers can be admitted to Herceg Novi or Cetinj. Montenegro has only introduced a high cell service, which is paid in foreign exchanges and is really so high that weaker carriers can give up stopping by the station, because if they do not have passengers in that cabotage, they do not pay to stop by and receive passengers. It is not true that the buses from Serbia cannot receive on the territory of Montenegro passengers travelling from station to station in Montenegro's territory. At least you can't accuse me of changing behavior, I was there to protect the common state even at a time when you all approved secessionist, separatist, all kinds of ideas that came from Montenegro. So I ask you once again, if you are in favour of separating Serbia-Montenegro, come out here with a proposal that we finally decide to do it and finish the job. Don't give us any ideas under the form of a response to Montenegro's behaviour, even if you are ahead of it - in breaking up the common state. And not to tell us here that this is not a matter, but here we are, protecting ourselves, defending ourselves, endangering Serbia's interests from Montenegro, which has only two car carriers. One on Cetinj, and one in Boca, who has not had many departures, cannot in any way endanger car traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'm surprised you didn't prohibit cabotage and transporters from Munich driving to Vranje. I'm interested in what kind of relationship is there, is there anything regulated, can a passenger in Subotica get on a bus leaving Munich, ride that bus to Belgrade? Have you even registered those departures? Does the state benefit from that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14277	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 51, against 101, the abstention of three, it did not vote 11, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Zoran D. Nikolic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14278	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment relating to Article 27 of the existing law and to Article 12. The bill, tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, erases Article 3. Let me explain as soon as I can, to be bound by a suggestion, about erasing Article 3. It's a bill of law. Article 27 following Article 2 adds Article 3 which reads: "The company operated by the bus station is obliged to submit a report on non-innovation of the transport under certified driving orders for the previous month to the Republic road traffic inspection by the latest 10th of the month." I suggest that this article be deleted and given an explanation and why. The introduction of the proposed attitude 3 would entrust the tasks of inspection to privileged and monopolist bus stations, which cannot be impartial in doing this job, since they are mainly owned by domestic undertakings. the carrier. Most of the bus stations are now owned by large bus companies, despite the fact that line traffic does not only take place for those bus companies that own bus stations, but also have other operators who use services. Surely they are placed in an unequal position by these other carriers. The Government, which has rejected the amendment, for the purpose of eradicating Article 3, has reason to argue that it is rejected for the reason that it assumes that incorrect data is entered in the report on unscheduled line transport under the certified driving order. I think that assumption is guaranteed how guaranteed it is and my assumption that it will be true. Since we in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have integrity only in part of the space related to the territory without the AP Kosovo, I ask the question - what will be the assumption, or whether bus line traffic, an unverified order of driving at the Kosovo Mitrovica bus station on Friday, and what few rights we had and which were abolished, will be guaranteed, that the carrier that arrived at the Kosovo Mitrovica bus station from Serbia will have accuracy or inaccuracy. That is why, until this is brought into line between all these regulations and the laws that exist on the relation of the Republic of Serbia and, now, Hekerup's Kosovo, I believe that this government proposal should be rejected and the amendment that I have proposed to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14279	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14280	This position is in charge but also gives authority to the bus station-run undertaking to submit reports to the traffic inspector on unscheduled transport in order to drive. By introducing this stance, the government finds that this company will deliver accurate reports. If the government has already found that enterprises in Serbia will deliver accurate reports, then it should have said that the carrier informs the traffic inspector, in the territory of the municipality where the carrier is located, of the departures he did not make in the order of driving. Because why would you believe that the company run by the bus station will provide accurate information, and usually it has its own buses, usually it's part of the vehicle's drive, and you don't believe that only the company carrying the bus will provide accurate data to the Republic's inspection; that is, whether the inspection will rely on the bus station's report and what that report means to it at all. It will be reports that may be accurate, partly accurate. It will be able to report any departure of another carrier that has not been made from its station, but will not start reporting. Why would he denunciate himself when the state gives him the right to reveal the second perpetrator of one piece that is punishable under the law. That's why either the inspection itself is doing its job, as everyone in the world does, to control the bus stop departures, or that if you already trust one carrier, the one holding the bus stop, you have confidence in all the carriers. You either have general confidence in the carriers, or you generally don't trust the carriers. There are no carriers you can trust and those you can't trust. According to this article, it turns out that you trust a bus station carrier, and whoever doesn't have a bus station, or one who passes through someone's bus station, you don't trust him to deliver the exact report, but whoever's station he's going through is going to provide you with an accurate report. It's a little absurd, this change and supplementation. Either it was meant to be done differently, or take it off, so let the state do its own job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14281	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 105, two abstentions, did not vote 10, a total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14282	Dear fellow Members of the People, about article 18. The proposal for this law was a lot of words in the principle debate. I also get the impression that the number of amendments submitted to this article, in particular paragraph 6, says there is justification in relation to the request of MPs and suggestions to delete Article 6. Therefore, my amendment applies to this attitude. Otherwise, as part of this amendment, I have also submitted an amendment to point 4 and I am giving up on that part of the amendment. But I'm going to say a few words about point 6 that relate to the work of a republican traffic inspector. As part of the inspector's obligations, it says: "It determines the identity of passengers and persons - the user of transport in public transport and transport for his own needs of ID control, identification documents and other relevant documents". It is necessary to delete this position, because if this position were to remain, then it would be given to that road traffic inspector, and would become entangled in the competences of the MUP workers. There is no point in keeping this attitude, and that is why I have proposed that it be deleted with my amendment. Otherwise, I see another number of fellow Members of Parliament have similar amendments, which also refer to this position. I'd like to ask a representative of the government and your colleagues to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14283	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 102, a abstentioned one, was not voted 13, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vojkan Tomic submitted to the 18th amendment, in the same text. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14284	In Article 18. I asked for a bill to be deleted point 6) because it is in direct contrast with other applicable laws and because this way the promoter gives the road traffic inspector the authority that the members of the MUP have, and should have them in the future. Namely, what it's about. Point 6) states that, in the course of inspection, a republican road traffic inspector (in addition to others, and as indicated, which is entirely in line with the supervision to be carried out by the inspector) "determins the identity of passengers and persons - the users of transport in public transport and transport for their own purposes, the control of IDs, identification documents and other relevant documents". It's absolutely impossible for something like this to be in the Road Traffic Act. You're about to give authority to a republican inspector to chase terrorists on buses. And, when you were already incompetent, I mean the entire DOS government, to pass a bill on road traffic, which would apply at the federal level; because of the problems you have with separatists in Montenegro, as a consequence, you are passing such a law. When you have already been unable to organise a federal inspectorate, you are now giving the Republic Inspector powers that can make any passenger on the bus detestable. At the same time, you reject this amendment, with an entirely unmistakable explanation given to me by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government's argument is - the amendment is rejected for the reason it is necessary to sign the proposed powers of the republican road traffic inspector, who are specific to this type of inspection. True, but it is known how far these powers of the Republic road traffic inspector can go. His surveillance was precisely defined in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7, and there were some changes. I've seen other fellow MPs have amendments to those points. At the same time, the government accepts the amendment of DS MP Goran Vesic, in which he asks that "personal cards and other identification documents" be deleted and left behind, and that the government has accepted: "carriage documents and other documents on the basis of which transportation is used". So, on the basis of the fact that the identity of the passengers is being determined. Well, these transport documents and other documents are already contained in point 7. Why, at all, the question arises, not in any way and control of which document, the republican traffic inspector could enter anywhere on the bus, stop the bus on the way and legitimize the passengers, when you know very well that it is in the strict jurisdiction of the members of the MUP. How is a passenger going to react to something like that, which now, by adopting this law (I have no doubt that you will refuse this amendment that we have proposed), to get on the bus and ask any passengers to show him their IDs? Since you have accepted the amendment of your colleague Vesic, it will now be based on transport tickets and other means of transport; in that case, you are putting in charge of the republican road traffic inspector a job to be performed by conductors. So these are all some things that are completely nebulous, along with a series of other failures in this law. I think it would be wiser for MPs, although the government has refused, although the committee in charge has rejected this amendment, to accept that these powers of the road traffic inspector are deleted by eradicating point 6 in Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14285	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr. Tomic, then Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14286	Dear People's MPs, I have also proposed an amendment to Article 18 to delete point 6 for the simple reason that the power vested in the 6th Inspector's office to regulate the authority that has the official face of the MUP, which is regulated by another law. Also, this member is not required in the modified form, controlling the transport documents, because the road map does not fall under transport documents, but it is a bond relationship between the carrier and the transport user. It is, as far as I can see, regulated at point 7, because in the very explanation given by the Government, it is said that the passenger is the person who concluded the contract with the carrier. It is therefore absolutely inadmissible that such powers, which are a direct violation of certain legal regulations and norms of the Interior Ministry Act, are contained in this law. Therefore, what has been amended by the other amendment by Mr Vesic also cannot survive in this law, as it cannot be done to determine the identity of passengers on the basis of some other transport documents, but only on the basis of public documents - ID cards, passports and other documents prescribed by the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14287	The word is Mr Nikolic, then Mr Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14288	I understand the need for the government of the Republic of Serbia not to correct the bill with its amendments, but to leave it to one of the MPs of the majority. From my point of view, that's acceptable. However, I think that the service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a major failure, in order to allow the government of the Republic of Serbia to request the amendments of the majority of MPs of the opposition's amendments, so that it can accept a good amendment without turning out to have accepted the opposition's amendment. How does that happen? For example, the Road Transport Law has received a number in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's records. All amendments that arrive at this proposal of the law shall be seductive only under that number. There is no chronological order, there is no order for the arrival of amendments on the numbers under which the amendments are being seduced. Only an officer with his hand, next to the amendment, writes 18 hours, 19 hours, 20 hours in the accompanying letter. Of course there must be some confusion. I am convinced that MP Goran Vesic did not sign this amendment at all. But it doesn't matter to me that much. It is important because the Assembly has twice returned amendments to us which she knew were amendments to the MPs of the SRS, but for the first time we all signed, the second time I guaranteed on behalf of the parliamentary group that certain amendments had been submitted by certain MPs. That wasn't accepted at all. But after reviewing those amendments, it's feverish, it's busy. Even tomorrow, the amendment of the People's MP from the majority, which is only being seduced by numbers. We have to have the data on the amendment here, from the record service, when, at what time, he arrived, under which number he was seduced, because we want to see computer listing, chronological order, when what goes into the computer. It's about the fate of the amendments and the fate of the amendments of the majority. I repeat, consider the amendments to the opposition. You brought yourself into an awkward situation so that the amendments are delivered by Thursday, say, 24 o'clock in the evening, so when we deliver at 20 o'clock, you can't get together, the government can't give the amendment, but you might give that amendment tomorrow and the day after, and you seduce it only under this number. If you were to remove it, everything would be fine. But the other thing is here. The amendment of the People's Messenger Goran Vesic, who you left behind for discussion at the end, and who will surely be accepted, nothing has been resolved. You seem to be finding that a traffic inspector can't control a person's identity through ID cards. With the amendment of Goran Vesic, you delete that he controls ID cards, but you leave the provision that he determines the identity of passengers and faces. Now, you have to tell me that he's going to determine the identity of a passenger unless he's asked for his ID or passport. I agree, but that doesn't have a right either. There's no right for a traffic inspector to ask for a ID, passport, ID issued by the state authorities. No, it's not his job. This amendment should have been accepted. You should have made a good amendment. He could have written a good amendment. Like this, you haven't solved anything. Apparently, you erased the traffic inspector's right to search for ID, but he has the right to determine identity. How is he going to -- take a man to a police station or tell the first cop he meets on the street -- please, ask for his ID, I want to see if it's him, and the bus is standing and waiting, or will the traffic inspector be taking a cop with him? It's not good. You'll make a mess, there'll be a fight on the bus. You know how valuable ticket controllers are, traffic inspectors, how important they are in the eyes of passengers. Now, even when he asks for his ID, and the man is out of a job because of this new government, I'm going to ask you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14289	Mr. Pavlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for reporting several times, but I am the head of the SPS parliamentary group, so that's what I have to do. And now, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Ministers and distinguished colleagues and colleagues, don't mind me, but I must say that this is an eclectic example, that it can't be a better example, yes, the current government and government won't accept the amendment, although it's obvious, and according to everyone, it's perfectly fine and it improves the legal solution. You won't tell me, first of all, that the inspector can't have this kind of authority, you admit it by accepting Mr. Vesic's amendment. The amendments submitted by MP Djura from the SPS, Mrs Natasa Jovanovic from the SRS and Mr Vojkan from the PDS, are also claimed. So, three MPs from three opposition parties, who also claim that road traffic inspectors cannot legislate passengers. You see it, and you will not accept it, and you accept the amendment of Goran Vesic (I am sorry that he is gone, I very much appreciate him and respect him); I also said in principle – it is impossible that 35 of our amendments are not accepted, and four amendments of Mr Vesic are accepted. Allow me, Mr. Vesic is not smarter than 250 of us. So please, and please, Mr. President, let the Minister of Transport and Telecommunications come out for a pay phone and say - is the government's position as it is, but the arguments that we have made in the amendments are such that you can simply accept this amendment and vote it and thus save both the law and the reputation of the ministry and the inspector who will do a job that does not belong to it and us passengers. Most of you have an official car, and someone's taking the bus, so they're going to legislate you, Mr. Mladenovic, if they don't recognize you by chance, that you're a deputy minister. So I call on all the MPs to accept these three amendments, since they are in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14291	Anybody else answer for a word? There have indeed been some confusion here, or at least it seems to me, as we did in some cases, even months ago, so I would ask Mrs. Minister to give us an explanation and, eventually, take a break so that the Legislative Committee will consider this situation, because it is something that is the consequence of the adopted amendment, so that, simply, we can put it into order and not adopt a law with shortcomings. We'll sort it out, of course, it's important that it be a valid text. He has the word Minister, Mrs. Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14292	What must be left in this amendment is that it does not have to be - identity, but it is necessary to control the transport documents. I'm sorry, that's just one word, so... identity doesn't have to be, but transport documents have to be controlled.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14293	I don't know if we should approach the decision or take a break for the Legislative Committee? There's a word Mr. Srdjan Petrovic, in front of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14294	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I think we have a solution, and what the government requires, and what I think most agree with -- under the circumstances, it is my amendment to Article 18 that says: "controls the travel documents of the person, the user of transport in public transport and transport for his own purposes". So, it's about the identification of passengers, like in the sixth indent, and how it's in Mr. Vesic's amendment, which was accepted by the government. So, by accepting the amendment to Article 18. (My amendment) I think we have a compromise solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14295	He has the word Minister, Mrs. Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14296	Mr. Srdjan Petrovic's amendment was adopted as well as Mr. Vesic's reasons for the government. We have absolutely no objection to Mr Srdjan Petrovic's amendment being adopted as it says. So, without identity, and with a formulation -- that controls travel documents and persons, users of transportation in public transport and transport for their own purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14297	Now things are clear, it is corrected by the next amendment, which has been accepted, has become an integral part. If no one is answering for a word anymore, I would like to put Mrs Jovanovic and Mr Tomic to the vote. For 61, against 82, with four abstentions, he did not vote 21, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18, the amendment was essentially submitted by MPs Goran Vesic and Srdjan Petrovic. National MP Srdjan Petrovic held a session of the Committee on Transport and Connections to conduct a legal-technical redistribution of his amendment, making the amendment fully identical to the amendment of MP Goran Vesic. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill, because it has been adopted by the Government, the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought you would remove these disagreements in the Rules of Procedure provided for, and not like this, by harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure. The government has accepted the amendment of MP Goran Vesic. You realized he became an integral part of the bill. The government has rejected the second amendment, which it claims is in the same text. It's not the same text at all and they're not the same provisions at all. If you accept the amendment of Goran Vesic, he will exercise control of the identity of the passengers and persons, and if you accept the amendment of the National MP Petrovic, he will only exercise control of the travel documents. It's not the same, Mr. President. I expected you to put Mr Petrovic's amendment to the vote, that you would also adopt him, and then pause that the committee responsible for this, because there have been two different amendments, make the final text of one agreed amendment, that such an amendment should come before the National Assembly and that we should move on with the resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14299	Mr. Pavlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and this further debate just confirms what I said at the beginning. It is persistently refused to accept a valid amendment, and now a replacement of thesis is being made. I intervened from the scene, and I apologized to the president for that, and he could have warned me, because I definitely didn't understand, which amendment the government accepted, which now came as an amendment to the law, so that we would know what it was about. Here, I would like to join my colleague Tomislav Nikolic's proposal to then do so, so that, therefore, he will vote on an amendment from the DSS, and then the Legislative Committee will determine which amendment is in force, because two amendments have been adopted in a different text, gentlemen. And there may be a new text that we as MPs will consider and adopt, if you will definitely not accept our three amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14302	Now we're really facing a problem with two amendments. Mr Nikolic is absolutely right when he says that we have now received a completely abnormal point of this Article 18. By accepting Mr. Srdjan Petrovic's amendments, we have again received one point that absolutely does not need to be in this article. It is very clearly defined in point 7 - "to control contracts, transport documents and business of transport operators, i.e. transport users related to transport. "The contract, gentlemen, is here the ticket the passenger concludes the moment he buys the ticket at the bus stop. Point 6) there is absolutely no need to stand, because in no other form, and when the identity is determined and when the control is carried out, the inspector for road traffic control is not a ticket controller, he has much broader powers, as you see beginning at point 1) So he is not the person who needs to control the cards or "ridge", as we call him. Therefore, it is absolutely unnecessary for point 6 to stand in any form, in no previous form, nor in this new one, after the adoption of Mr Srdjan Petrovic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14303	I'm taking a half-hour break. I'm asking the Legislative Committee to take a seat. I ask that we continue our work for about 12.15 minutes and receive a report from the Legislative Committee. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue the work of the National Assembly. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and an amendment to Article 18(2), which solves the problem that has arisen, which has led us to interrupt the session and schedule a session of the Legislative Committee. The deputy president of the Legislative Committee is not here. Is there any need to explain the amendment? I think it's all in the report you got. Is anyone answering for a word? If not, I am putting the amendment of the Legislative Committee to the vote and I ask you to plead with him. For 119, against two, abstentions 15, did not vote 10, a total of 156. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The text of the Legislative Committee report states that MP Srdjan Petrovic has agreed to this proposal. Does that mean you're withdrawing your amendment to Article 18? I find that MP Srdjan Petrovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 18. It's a bill of law. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14305	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members, to Article 19. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Act, but I would have previously read to you that the basic text of the law to which I have submitted the amendment reads. This is in Article 44, point 5: "Disable public transport and transport for its own purposes against the provisions of the law, determine the place of parking and withdraw the traffic permit and registration plates for 48 hours, and in the event of a re-disengagement of the vehicle of the same carrier, undertaking, other legal person, entrepreneur or citizen for five days". On this formulation of Article 5, i.e. Article 44a, I have submitted an amendment - in Article 19, point 5, it is also amended to read: "exclusive the vehicle which is carried out by public transport if the vehicle owner, legal or natural person, is not registered or does not fulfil the prescribed conditions for the performance of public transport activity or carries out a direct transport without registered driving order. The vehicle shall be excluded for 48 hours, and in the case of a five-day re-disengagement of the vehicle of the same carrier. When the vehicle is turned off, the traffic permit and registration plates shall be withdrawn and the parking space of the vehicle shall be determined." In the principle debate, I was saying that after the 48-hour or two-day exclusion, it would be impossible to withdraw documents and a license plate, so I could turn the vehicle off again for up to five days. Such a solution is more quality and better than offered, although the legislator did not accept this amendment, with the reason that the powers of inspection services are reduced here and that the total part of the person, i.e. the entrant, is not included, which is not true. Here, only a wording is more general than is given in the bill, and I therefore propose that this amendment be accepted, because, in my view and in the opinion of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, this is a better solution than the solution offered in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14306	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14307	I think that this amendment should be accepted because the overarching powers of the Republic's road traffic inspector, or the municipal inspector, are because Article 44b is the transport of things in line, out- of-line transport, control of the transport of things, then the control of the taxi service is entrusted to municipal inspections. It's undefined, it's unclear because the bill says you can turn off the vehicle if the transport is carried out against the provisions of the law. There are so many of these legal provisions and it turns out that for every violation of any of the provisions of this law, a municipal inspector can rule out a vehicle at first 48 hours, and then for five days to take down plates and withdraw a traffic permit. It was necessary to define for which infringements of the law are excluded and for which the terms of office are imposed, refer to the judge for offences or to conduct any other procedure against the person carrying out the transport. This is how you leave it on the inspector's overarbitrary. He was allowed to shut down the vehicle for every violation of this law and then the municipal inspector will have those who are in transit, who are passing only through a bus station, held by the so-called so-called. His carrier, a local carrier, a carrier in a city where the inspector is doing business, rigorously controlling, shutting down, and he will regain order at our bus stations and streets, just because the law wasn't precise enough. The amendments indicate exactly which infringements of the law the vehicle may be excluded before, to repeat only a part of the debate in principle, which is the responsibility of the carrier to determine who will guard the vehicle in a parking lot designated by a republican or municipal traffic inspector. That means that the carrier from Subotica in Zlatibor, in a parking lot designated by the municipal inspector from Užica, has to guard the car for 48 hours or five days, to send at least four people to watch that car for 24 hours a day, in conditions that are unbearable to people in winter, to stand outside the vehicle. I don't think that's well seen, that sometimes you should accept the amendment no matter who writes it, or that you should react with an amendment that you are not ashamed to accept it from. This formulation will lead to major problems in practice. There will be no uniformity to the criteria for insignificant violations of the law. For one more passenger, who's not on the list on the van line, you'll be able to shut down the vehicle of the carrier that lives out of it. You always think he has a family, kids, he has employees who support transport. Not all carriers are criminals, nor thieves, not all work wildly. You shall punish those who find them, but you shall have a measure of transgression, that the punishment may be adequate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14308	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 58, against 113, two abstentions, three, 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14309	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by amendment to article 21, are intervened in Article 48. The Law on road traffic due to inappropriately increased penalties for commercial offences, and it was obviously the government's intensities to increase penalties for both offences and commercial offences, and what should be done, given the state of traffic and the situation concerning traffic safety. We couldn't figure out what the principle of government was, because we have an increase in penalties ranging from 10 to 30 times, maybe even more. From what I've noticed, it's pretty much like that. As a result, for the economic offenses provided for in Article 48, the proposer proposes to be between 100,000 and 400,000 dinars. I think it's too high. I am dissatisfied with the government's response, which, in its reasons for not accepting the amendments, says the amendment is unacceptable because the proposed increase in the amount of fines is aimed at increasing the minimum of fines. He doesn't mention maximum sentences here, which are really drastic. In addition, in paragraph 2, responsibility of the legal person is also a major increase in fines from 10,000 to 30,000 dinars. I intervene here in the sense that these fines are between 5,000 and 20,000 dinars. You will admit that this is not small either, given the material possibilities of the car carrier and the material possibilities of the responsible persons. However, particularly are interesting positions 3 and 4 where it is predicted again, and we have already had this in some laws, the Government insists that those who commit such an economic offense should be deprived of the right to work within six months to three years, when it comes to point 8, or when the company operated by the bus station does not perform services on equal terms, and for points 1, 4, 5 and 7, that prohibition is from six months to two years. However, I ask you, Madam Minister, to listen, and you here at point 8 are talking about the violation of Article 25 of Article 1 and predicting this dragon punishment, the possibility of banning the work of car carriers. In Article 50 of the existing law, under point 6, in paragraph 1, you have a violation for the same if the bus station does not perform services in accordance with the general conditions of business and you say again, infringement of Article 25(1). You'd have to determine whether it's a violation or whether it's a commercial offense. You've been injured twice, so the same provisions in two different members. There's a business offense in one, and there's a crime. I understand that you may not have been obliged to know that, the gentleman sitting next to you as chairman of the Management Board of the Icarbus is probably not also referred to this problem, but you have a lawyer at the Ministry, and if you don't have at least the secretary of the Legislative Secretariat, who obviously failed in this previous amendment. We know there's no reference to this job, except that she's the wife of the current federal interior minister. Something like that shouldn't happen, because then it confuses those to whom the law will apply. But he's also going to confuse the judges who need to be punished under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14310	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14311	The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group's wish, within the six-seven members concerned with punishment for a commercial offense or a violation, was not to make such a rigorous increase in penalties under Articles 48, 49 and 50. And especially because we haven't found any system by which monetary amounts have been increased. Usually the lower amount is increased 10 times more, and the top one is three, four, and the highest one is up to six times. We couldn't determine why it was an economic offense from Article 48. Laws or 21. The bill is the highest penalty of 400,000 dinars, and for a violation, not for a commercial offence, for a violation sanctioned by Article 49. Laws, or 22. The bill of law is already fined 200,000 dinars. It's not worth reminding now that the fines have been valid since maybe 1997 or some years. The fines have been valid since yesterday. Yesterday they are, if yesterday or today they say measures under the law that apply. So, according to Article 21 today, the highest amount is 100.00 dinars for a commercial offense, and when the law enters the song there will be 400,000 dinars. Today, the lowest penalty is 10,000 dinars, and when the law comes into force there will be 100,000 dinars. The carrier is from today to tomorrow ten times, a tenfold increase in punishment for violations or for crimes. Usually the one who explains the bill says the fines haven't been changed in four or five years. But the fines change today for yesterday. Yesterday, fines were paid on one basis, and today they were paid on the other. Is there any reason, is there any excuse for it now being some kind of inflation that is 1,000%? It's not about the initial day of the imposition of those penalties, it's about the last day the penalties were applied. Since the DOS has been in power, the sentence has not changed. So they had a purpose, they were reaching the goal, and what's now happened is that those penalties are no longer achieving the goal, and inflation, you say, is planned to be 34%, but it's going to be something like a little bit exceeded. As soon as the government reaches out for an increase, with a drastic increase in fines, the people know it's inflation. So, you don't charge the budget so well with the fines that were at the beginning of the year, so you have to increase the fines rigorously, or budgets are being prepared for 2002, so they have to increase immediately at the start of the fine, to justify who knows how much budget increases for 2002, and we know how much we have responded to the increase in the 2001 budget to 2000. That's why we're proposing to the government representative to accept the amendments. We didn't want them to stay as punished as they were, but you really don't want to shut down all the car drivers. Or maybe you have some favored ones, as it's obvious that in many industries you already have favored private workers, who do huge government jobs, replace social firms that have done so far. Social firms are increasingly failing, and some privileged and private firms are rising just because they may have funded DOS at the time they were in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14312	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14313	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when MPs perform with certain views, then they actually protect very specific interests. But when the subject of punishment for a commercial offense is a violation of a very important law - the Law on Road Traffic - it's just amazing that someone can protect the interests of offenders. I don't think that's what this is about. This is actually about an amendment that takes away from the authorities the rights our predecessors gave themselves, and in this particular case, even in a much larger scale. We here have, by amendment proposed, a slight increase in penalties in Article 21, and by article 48 of the old law, which we are changing today. But this is a slight increase much less than the increase in the Road Transport Law proposal, which I quoted on Thursday, was proposed by a resolution minister who urged the same party from which the amendment also encouraged it. That law did not go through the government at that time and did not enter the congregation procedure. That's true, but it's still clear what the proposing's intentions were. He wanted to prevent, with sharp sanctions, everything that is characteristic, unfortunately today, of our road transport. There are a lot of abuses, a lot of violations of the law, and we think that financial repression is the most correct and concrete sanctioning of those who don't respect the law we're making. The penalties we propose are no more than the penalties applied in 1995, when the law that we are changing today came into force. At that time, the fines of 3,300 marks today, if we use it as a reper currency, amounted to 10,000 marks. I'm talking about the lowest sentence. And the greatest penalty today is 13,000 marks at that time was 100,000 marks. I think they're very clear and obvious differences. It is certainly an argument to explain, or criticises, this initiative, supported by the DOS parliamentary group, chromium and non-road. I repeat what I said on Thursday -- I think we need road traffic discipline, that we need respect for regulations in every segment of our lives, even in this segment that we're talking about today, and that these sanctions are mild, according to the consequences we face every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14314	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14315	Dear People's MPs, Madam Minister, and in principle debate, in which I spoke to the Rules of Procedure for 17.5 minutes, among other things, I argued that it was an amendment to and supplementing the law which is, in its essence, very repressive and that it foresees an enormous increase in criminal provisions. The full debate so far, including this intervention by Mr Jovanovic, has not disproved that claim and the essence; the whole debate that was under way confirmed it. The fact that the majority of the DOS has such an advantage in the hall when it comes to voting, we can't change anything, but facts are facts. With regard to Article 21 and I have proposed an amendment that reads - Paragraph 1 in Article 21: "100,000" replaces the number "50,000", and in Article 2, the number "10.000" is replaced by "2,500". Why? In the explanation that we have given, i.e. the People's MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia who have 10 amendments to all members from 20th to 26th who regulate the increase in criminal provisions, we have written that it is an increase of 5 to 50 times, which is true. When you convert to percent, that means 500 to 5,000 percent. We argued, and I now argue, that such an increase, regardless of the government's position, is unfounded, that the increase is enormous, is neither consistent with the increase in inflation nor with the increase in the cost of life, and I am not sure that this is the measure of repression which will be regulated by these relations that were mentioned earlier. Mr. Jovanovic, in defence of the government's position, compared the bill that was proposed to me, I don't know when, which was never adopted. So I didn't even compare it. I'm comparing the figures to the existing law and the ones that are now being proposed. In particular, in Article 21, the current sentence is 10,000, and a fine of 100,000 is proposed, which is 10 times. In the second position, the existing sentence is 500, and now it's 10,000. That means it's 20 times the increase, and that's the fact. If you think it's okay to increase the sentence 20 or 30 times, or even 50 times, you increase it and take responsibility. I don't think that's right, and in that sense, it's our amendment. By doing so, Mr. Jovanovic, we do not protect offenders, just as we do. And it's in our best interest that everything is arranged and that it's all gone. But we believe that the proposed solutions are truly enormous, inappropriate, and in the extreme line and incorrect. That's why we suggest that this, and all the other amendments, be accepted, because they're going that way so that the increase won't be in any member over five times. That's a suggestion. And in one and the other member I've proposed, the increase is five times, not 10, not 20 and not 50 times. It's extremely principled and very correct. I urge you to accept these amendments. You won't make a mistake. I mean Mrs. Minister, who is authorized by the government to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14316	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14317	If we agreed that it was good for a rapper to take some solid currency that hasn't changed much over the last six years, then let that currency, for example, be a German mark. In 1995, as MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, you supported -- in Article 48th position, which you are criticising today -- a fine of 10,000 German marks as the bottom one. Today we propose a fine of 3,300 German marks. The upper limit of your punishment was a fine of 100,000 marks. We're proposing 13 times less punishment. I think that's enough and it's quite certain that you have no argument to explain something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14318	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14319	I just didn't react on behalf of the parliamentary group, although in some mild tone words were spoken that could be understood as direct aim, or an insult, but I don't think it was the wish of a speaker, but that he got lost. We have no reason to protect the offenders, nor did we do so as we participated in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular we do not wish that now that we are in opposition, but you must admit that we are now driven by different motives. And you now, after one year of governmental conduct, you realize that a man would run a state must behave seriously, and in order to be in opposition sometimes he can seek what he might not do alone if he were in power. You've been taking us to world courts for mobile phone charges, for gun charges. At the time you were in opposition, it was all used against the government. Now you're in power, so you introduced it as taxes. Of course, the amounts don't matter. But we didn't agree anywhere to make rappers here and tie ourselves to a German brand. We're still bonding to the dinar, and there's still gonna be a month's worth of stamps, so no one's gonna tie to it anymore. And the course he was taking once or now, that doesn't mean anything to this government. This work with the windmills, compared to what happened in 1995 - 1996 and proving that you are here, can only take you further thinking, for you will pass as we do. That, comparing the official course then and the official course today, means nothing. Neither did that official course work, because he had a black one that was at least a few times higher than that, nor is this official one, because the stamp should already be 100 dinars, if he had the brains in this country, so our businessmen would export, so we would have some kind of -- that kind of production, and it wouldn't cost us everything because our product is too expensive, because the brand is 30 dinar force. And there will be, by force, 30 dinars until you close all our businesses, all our banks and all our savings until the foreigners arrive. Then who knows what that euro is worth, compared to today's 60 dinars. There is no need to compare amounts at all and to bind ourselves to years back: today is the highest fine of 100,000 dinars, tomorrow there will be 400,000 dinars; today the lowest penalty is 500 dinars, and tomorrow there will be 10,000 dinars. That's basic. If the transporters can handle it, I don't know. But it will be in the hands of those who decide, that the law has so broadly laid down criminal provisions that any violation of the law can be given the most severe measure, and that is correct. That the law, as such, will not contribute to improving the situation either on the roadways or on the city streets, and that's true. Improving the situation would first be traffic safety, and then all the rest of this is what you're proposing to this law. That security could also be ensured by this law, if a little more had been taken care of. However, the law, I don't know why, was first directed against the situation in the Republic of Montenegro, as a direct answer that we can do so, and then against the carriers. We'll see who shows up as a carrier in Serbia, when you close these carriers too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14320	Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14321	Ladies and gentlemen, if we are already going back four, five or six years, we must remember that the implementation of Serbia's monetary and economic stabilisation programme has been followed by a KEBS condemnation, of many then opposition politicians, who said that the dinar would remain worth one mark perhaps at most a week or two and that it would all fail. I must say that, fortunately, Serbian citizens were wrong and that indeed during 1994 and the first half of 1995, the relationship was really real 1:1. Unfortunately, here we now hear that at the end of 1995 it might have been that way, but the truth is the following: that the relationship was 1:3 and that, in fact, at the end of 1995, the penalty was the same. It's just, you need to know that then the salary was 250 marks, and the prices were four or five times lower, in stamps, than they are today. Today it is much harder to live, especially more difficult than it was last year and last year at the time of aggression, because the standard of citizens has fallen extremely, because the economy is almost standing. That's why we object to such drastic increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14322	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 59, against 114 abstentions, three did not vote eight, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister, in Article 21(1). The bill is replaced by "30,000 dinars" and the amount of "400,000" is replaced by "200,000". In heading 2, the amount "10,000" is replaced by "3,000", and the amount "30,000" is replaced by "15.000". The Serbian Unity Party believes these sentences are too great. I'm not going to get into what it was like five, ten years ago, but I'm interested in the time we live in today. We can determine that car companies, which do this kind of service, have fallen by 60%. In particular, I will take the town of Kragujevac as an example. If 15,000 workers are out of work, they don't go to work anymore, they don't work at the flag, and someone carried them until a year ago. Automatic, traffic in these car companies has dropped. The age of the bus is also over 15 years old. 400,000 dinars worth 13,000 marks. I claim that at least 40% of the buses in our country are not worth 13,000 marks. Where that carrier's gonna pay a fine of 13,000 marks if the vehicle he's doing services isn't worth that much. There's something else I have to tell you, that certain car companies, which have up to 50 workers, have 400,000 dinars on the jury account only three days before the first one, when the salaries are, and for the next 27-28 days they're struggling to have over 100,000 dinars on the giro account, because their vehicles are in the garage on repairs, so a lot of their income goes to vehicle repair. The Serbian Unity Party believes that these penalties are too great and that this amendment that I have proposed should be accepted, because if these penalties remain and apply, a large number of businesses will no longer be able to perform such services, because the situation in our country is very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14324	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 57, against 110, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I wanted to reduce the penalties provided for by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the Bill's proposal, primarily considering that they measure general or special preventions in economic and criminal law, especially in such a law, cannot bring about such results as the Government would like, or it is absolutely impossible. On the contrary, it seems to me that such measures will be counterproductive, that they will only contribute to a further halt in doing the job and contribute to the recession in general in the doing of the job. In fact, I assumed that Article 49 changed the numbers in paragraphs 1 and 2. Article 1 - the number "1,000" is replaced by "10,000", and the number "10,000" is replaced by "50,000". So in the first case, I predicted it would increase by ten times the penalty, and in the second by five times. But the government predicted much more, the government predicted in the first 50 times, and in the second by 20 times, even at 200,000, or 50,000 and 200,000, respectively. Now, maybe someone will say -- how was that, in some previous law? We were the opposition back then, and we didn't participate, but I can't go back here to internal acts, which aren't any formal legal document, it's a draft, not a bill. When it's a draft, then you can't go public with it in any way. It's like getting us a love letter from a hard drive, anyone's hard drive, and you read it, and you say, well, you did it here or there in the government. It may have been, but it didn't even come to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and it was in the form of a draft, not in the form of a proposal. The proposal is when the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepts the draft and directs it to a debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's only a proposal for a certain act can be discussed, only then can it be said what someone wanted the National Assembly to present, what someone wanted to adopt in the form of the legal text, and these are the things that are true, these are the things that are fact. Now, we can listen every day, so we listen to some illiterate people, who deliberately talk about how now the press "Blica" and "Rapporteur" want to prosecute under Seselj's Information Act, although the Information Act has been abolished, but the previous one is no longer a positive rule of law, but anything is possible today in the country. But what's a fact, the fact that people live hard, the fact that people live badly, is the fact that people live harder and worse, no matter what anyone wants to say, and no matter how you represent it to the public and show some other virtual reality, much different from the real life that we all live. In such conditions, the question arises - is it for someone who carries out transport to vehicles that do not meet the prescribed conditions and which are not regularly maintained and controlled, or is there no travel order in the vehicle, completed, certified and signed in the prescribed manner, a fine of 200,000 dinars will be dark or the right measure for such a type of offence? We think it's too much, not because we're protecting some offenders, not because we want to protect anyone who breaks the law in any way, even if it wasn't criminal acts, but because we're protecting some offenders, but because we think that this is the way fear is going to be brought in, and that no state will get, but nothing else will get, because every inspector that comes in (we can say as, if you want, and the financial police) can always find, even if some kind of offense. If they're like this, then the question is, who are they going to contribute to, and will these people be able to survive, and will they be able to stay in the business they're dealing with? That is why we believe that the penalties that I have provided for this amendment are greater, are significantly greater than those that were under the previous 1995 law, I am speaking on the principle of monetary nominalism, therefore, to take into account the Serbian, or Yugoslav dinar. Of course they're not much bigger, given the attitude towards foreign currencies, especially German marks, but you have to bear in mind that today life costs are at least five or six times higher than they were before. That is why I urge you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14326	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 57, against 107, a abstentioned one, was not voted on by 12, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Government, the Transport and Relationship Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He has the word National MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I almost have nothing to add to what I've already spoken three times about the proposed increase in fines. I came out just to say that the amendment submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic, from the SPS, is exactly an example of the claim that the fines have been increased to 50 times. In Article 49(1), the number "1000" is replaced by "50,000". I hope there's nothing questionable about that 50 times. We claimed that these 50 times, regardless of the stamps, and the course, and everything else, inappropriately, unfounded, enormously, and that it should not be accepted, nor should you as a parliamentary majority, because it is in the extreme line ugly, if you let me use that example as well. We suggested that it be replaced from 1 to 10, to increase 10 times, and 50 times it can't be done at all. I invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14328	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 109, a abstentioned one, was not voted by 12, a total of 178 national MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Transport and Relationship Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, against 108, two abstentions, 14 did not vote, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by MPs Goran Vesic and Srdjan Petrovic in the same text. I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill since it was adopted by the Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14329	Of course, like all amendments submitted by the People's MPs of the SRS and MPs of other opposition parties to the bill, this amendment was rejected, along with one template of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said that there are increases, such as dramatic increases and penalties for criminal and commercial offences in road traffic, aimed at these mass occurrences in this kind of traffic, which result in the presence of different forms of grey economy, are suppressed, etc. The promoter did not consider the current situation at all, as regards the general state of the social or private enterprises operating road transport. If you hadn't already seen it, and you should have, and even heard a little bit of this ministry, it would have gone on to propose to the National Assembly the transport law in passenger traffic, and not to regulate this area in this way, only through alterations, with a drastic increase in criminal provisions, and with obvious ignorance of legal terminology, which in the end does not have to be known by Minister, Ms. Maria Rashet, but by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. This is not the first time in the same law, with the exact same phenomena, that different terms are given. I would now ask Mrs. Minister to tell us if it's a violation in Article 50 or whether it's a commercial offense. I, by my amendment, asked that these fines be properly increased, so that the number 750 be replaced by 20,000, and the number of 7,500 be replaced by 30,000, and not that the economic and responsible person should pay the fine of, say, 120,000 dinars, what is the largest provided for in this article. Please just show us if in Article 50, paragraph 6, if, as you have stated here, the bus station does not perform a service in accordance with the general conditions of business, this sentence for a misdemeanor or a commercial offence, because you have already defined yourself in Article 48 in point 8. It is also necessary to explain what is going on with the 10th and the passenger car carrying out the car taxi, the transport of passengers by line. As far as we know from the interior that absolutely, almost all five working days a week, in Belgrade public transport, is a complete collapse, especially when the winter period begins, when the first snows begin. Usually there is unpreparedness and everything else that follows one authority unable to allow citizens to be transported normally. When you're talking about a fine that's not small, it's 120,000 dinars for a legal person, and 30,000 dinars for a responsible person, in the case of a taxi carrying a liner, you can explain whether you'll end that kind of transport with these and these tickets. As far as we know, Article 34 that regulates this is not treated with these current amendments and additions to the law, so it is the ultimate order that, because of the people who deal with this kind of transport, explain what it is, whether you intend to end it or punish it this drastically, but because of the citizens who wanted to or not, they are forced to use that kind of transportation to get to the destination, to the workplace, to the children at school, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14330	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 110, the two abstentions, did not vote 9, a total of 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milos Nesovic. The government, the Committee on Transport and Relationships did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Nesovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14331	Honorable presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've had the opportunity to talk to the carriers these days, watch their calculations, and I can tell you that they've convinced me to do business at the border of restitution or to deal with losses. I fully agree that road traffic needs order, but I don't think these enormous penalties are going to work. For these reasons, I have proposed an amendment to Article 23, which refers to Article 50, to replace 30,000 with 7,500, and in Article 2 120,000 with 75,000. In the law earlier, the smallest penalty was 750 dinars and the largest was 7,500. I think this will certainly reflect the safety and comfort of passengers, especially when it comes to bus transport. For these reasons, I think this amendment should be accepted, and I wouldn't give a bigger explanation. Mr Pavlovic very practically explained to the Assembly how we from the SPS parliamentary group are looking at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14332	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 57, against 105, a abstentioned one, was not voted 12, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The government, the Committee on Transport and Relationships did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 52, against 103, two abstentions, were not voted 18, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14333	The amendment to Article 24 intervenes in Article 51 of the existing law, which provides for criminal penalties, a minimum of 500 dinars and a maximum of 5,000 dinars. The government is now proposing an increase in these fines, ranging from 15,000 to 60,000 dinars, so the range is far greater. The minimum penalty is 15,000 dinars and it is clear that the punishment must be adequate to the social danger that threatens to violate certain provisions of the law. But what was found in this article 51, which has not otherwise changed, and there are such high sentences, I'll try to explain, noting only some examples. First, "if the vehicle carrying out the transport is not prescribed in the lateral side of the company, the name of the owner of the vehicle or if another inscription is placed", the penalty is from 15,000 to 60,000 dinars. What if he put it on the windshield? The inspector can say you broke the law, you must be standing on the right. Or "things not considered to be manual baggage accommodations in part of the passenger accommodation vehicle." What's the danger here? She just wants to take her sugar a little bigger, put it next to her, wear the cheese, don't let her swing down on the bus, roll it over. Now that's why the car carrier will pay up to 60,000 dinars. That's funny stuff. They simply didn't belong in this article if you wanted to keep this high sentence. Then, "he does not issue a ticket, i.e. a certificate for the carriage of passenger luggage or the issue of train tickets, does not comply with the provisions of Article 30 of this Act". He's probably thinking about those cases where the conductor won't charge the ticket, or to issue the ticket, and he's gonna charge it, and he's gonna put the money in his pocket. It is in the interest, of course, of whoever owns this company to carry out this internal control, and here the state is absolutely in no way denied. Point 10 says it does not allow the passenger access to the vehicle until the vehicle leaves. This means a fine of 15,000 to 60,000 dinars. I asked for a reduction in the penalties provided for in Article 24. The bill, considering that they are inappropriate to the social danger that threatens to violate these provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14334	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14335	I think this bill in some of its provisions is absurdly rigorous and I don't see the purpose of applying different arches to different works. Even from this Article 24, that is, Article 51. The draft law as an infringement was rejected, point 4, which said that in a vehicle operated by a line transport there must be general conditions of transport, a valid price list or a prominent line name in a regulated manner. Now it's been transferred to a commercial offense. So, one who does not have 50 copies of the general terms of transport, that every passenger who enters the bus on his request provides these general terms of transport, will be fined by 120,000 dinars. Either in the BIS transport if the bus has no mark that it is BIS or no bus number, the penalty is 60,000 dinars. It may seem to you to take it a little bit to some carrier 100, 200, 400, 60, as many as you want thousands of dinars, but no matter how many of these provisions you're closing his business. When you see that the vast majority of buses came here from foreign waste, that the vast majority of buses, which you get as donations of various cities, came from their waste, that one bus has to change the tires twice a year, that the technical conditions are so sharp that it has to spend a lot of money on a regular basis, and if for that, I would say, innocent violations you prescribe such rigorous penalties, it's obvious that there is some intention, with the intention to increase the fines urgently, which means agreeing the dinars with world currencies, which are waiting for us for sure, so that this ministry doesn't be late. This is where the intention to shut down car transport companies is evident. There may be a lot of them, but let the market speak for itself. Maybe there's some inconclusive ones, and let the market speak for itself. You have an MP here who organizes tourist trips, so not everyone can impose on him to drive his passengers, but he who deals with it knows very well the company's bonity. He knows who he can trust with the ride and who he can't trust. Even if there is a malfunction, he knows within what time limit the carrier will react to get the passengers out of the way, out of the rain, out of the wind, out of the snow, out of the sun, and out of the way. You don't have to do such high sentences. Maybe there's a poor car carrier who's doing all his dues right. Why would you lock him up because there are three buses; or only one for transportation for your own needs or vanlinic transportation. No more money. If he did, he'd have 15, 20 buses. First, remove the bus from the street for five days so it can't make a profit, so when you let it do so, will you, then, for the board or for the improperly written name of the carrier on the side-side (and now, what is illegal, and that's the question: should it be written with a mass paint; whether the board has to have a board; whether in urban traffic will have to have general terms of transport, since that city traffic is included in line transport, transport passengers; whether they will have to have order to drive; what if the trams are not only late for an hour, but start by an hour and a half, two to be late; what will you do with the local carrier) turn off the vehicle, will you punish it 100,000 dinars for its late departures? It's over now. You've been through a lot of criminal provisions, you haven't accepted the amendments, so now we don't care what you do with these two. We will certainly vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14336	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, against 109, two abstentions, did not vote seven, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14337	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues and colleagues, as has already been said, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24. The bill, which states that in Article 24, paragraph 51, paragraph 1, the number 500 is replaced by 15,000, and the number 5,000 is replaced by 60,000. My amendment reads that in Article 24, that is, Article 51, paragraph 1.55 is replaced by 5,000, and in Article 2 of that same article, number 60,000 is replaced by 50,000. I did so in order to bring the same principle into line when it comes to valorising these criminal provisions, to have the same relationship, the same relationship as the lowest and highest sanctioned penalty for the offence in this part. Just to remind you, in Article 51 of the old law, a fine of 500 to 5,000 new dinars is intended to punish a company and another legal person if, among other things, the vehicle carrying out the transport does not have a prescribed vehicle on the lateral sides of the printed company, or the name of the owner of the vehicle, or if another inscription has been placed. I don't think a sanctioning like this, among other things, is appropriate and I think it's too strict. It is quite true that one who does not commit an offence will not come under the law, or sanctions, but the fact is that this criminal measure should be appropriate when it comes to road transport, when it comes to the condition of the vehicle. And reminds me of what I was talking about in principle, that we have to pay our respects and respect to all those people who tried to do their jobs correctly in the past, especially in the time of the war, in the time of sanctions. Remember that a large number of carriers were engaged in the war dangers we had in 1999, that their vehicles were mobilized, that no adequate compensation was paid for the use of these vehicles, that they were quite ruined along the way and that they were used to defend the country. I think that's what we should consider when we provide for such sanctions. All of them are in traffic day and day, and I propose to the Assembly to accept these adjustments, which are insignificantly less than what was proposed, to at least be ingathered, to be both this minimum and this maximum penalty ten times valorised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14338	Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 107, abstention two, did not vote 10, a total of 169. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was in principle talking about too much punishment. That's what I've submitted three amendments to. In Article 24(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: The "155,000" dinar bill is replaced by "5,000" dinars, and the amount of "60,000" is replaced by "30,000". In the second position of the same member, the amount of "1,000" is replaced by "500" dinars. The amount of "4,000" is replaced by "2,000". These aren't big numbers around here, but since it's physical faces, it's a very big punishment for them. I'd also like to give a concrete explanation. Some companies, which operate at the limit of rentability, would go into bankruptcy very quickly with this kind of punishment without talking about individuals, i.e. To the citizens. We'd probably have to go to jail to do a sentence. The Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group is for the introduction of traffic order, which is why we suggested when it was a discussion in the principle of withdrawing this bill from the debate, preparing a complete solution to traffic safety, as well as this road traffic law. We had in mind that certain penalties had been negligiblely extended to the laws so far and how traffic safety had been affected. I mean very low sentences that, hand to heart, have been in so far's regulations. The Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group is sure that repressive measures are difficult to achieve any effect and therefore our six amendments have been filed to reduce fines. In order not to go out twice again, my same argument would be for members 25 and 26, referring to the level of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14340	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 106, the two abstentions, did not vote 11, a total of 166. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've made a correction, and you've figured out why. So in attitude one, instead of the first number 50,000, it's going to cost 5,000, as it says in the law. It's a technical smudge that's what's been smudged. In fact, Article 52 punishes an entrepreneur with fines, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry for replacing the fine with the number 500 with 20,000 and replacing the number 5,000 with the number 80,000. So first we have an increase of 40 times, and in the second case, if I count correctly, an increase of 16 times. My amendment envisioned an increase of 20 times from 500 to 10,000 dinars (instead of 20,000 dinars) and from 5,000 to 50,000 dinars (instead of 80,000 dinars). Especially because of the fact that it's physical persons, entrepreneurs, people who have maybe one line, who have one bus, who have one car taxi, and who would simply stop this punishment, would not allow them to continue working. I can't agree to what one of the predecessors said here until the end, when he said that some of them are doing business with loss today, so below the limit of profitability and economics. It's simple, the question is, why would he work? I have a family that mostly deals with agriculture, and then I know that sometimes they whine when they say, "It's hard, it's hard, but there's always a little something that can be made, as little as possible, so that people can survive." Of course, I know that these conditions are difficult and that these people are barely able to deal with the end, but it means that by now they could have worked, at least to earn something to feed their families and to make it worth their while. Now, if they are punished, let's say by Article 15, paragraph 52. The law, which says, "provides regular maintenance or control of technical regularity, and does not meet the prescribed conditions" (I would ask the minister to explain to me what it means) if they are punished with 80,000 dinars, then how they will be able to work, what and how long after that they will have to do, so that they can earn anything on an annual basis. This is about, I remind people, about private entrepreneurs, about individuals, not legal people, and that's something to be taken care of. I'd like to hear this explained to me, what that means, is that he does regular maintenance or control of technical regularity, and he doesn't meet the prescribed conditions. I really can't understand it, if there's anyone who understands, let them come out and explain it. I don't get it. I don't get it. I don't get it. - "a passenger car carrying out a car taxi carrying out a line-up." What's the point now? To this day, we had no regulations to regulate such matter. Too quiet your line taxis existed. Now, when these fines are imposed, these dragon and drastic penalties, that kind of transport will no longer exist. That's what someone should say from this pay phone, someone who has proposed such a law, that at least we know that it applies to it, and not to find it in the 12th attitude, or in the bottom line, or I don't know what a member is for, under allegedly irrelevant amendments and additions to the law. These are things we disagree with. We feel that the amendment I have made significantly increases the penalties. Indeed, we are increasing the punishment significantly. Our proposal is an increase in fines 20 and 10 times, but of course it is much less than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has proposed an increase in penalties 40 and 16 times. It seems to us that its interests in achieving higher revenues to the budget will surely be achieved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the way I have spoken, and will even be counterproductive for budget revenues if the government's proposal is accepted. Why? Because a large number of them, after one or two sentences, will cease to carry out that type of action and will no longer be possible to achieve such incomes. And this way there won't be that kind of distillation. At the same time, a much higher amount of money will be collected into the republican budget than it has been before. That is why I call on you to accept this amendment from the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, which I have signed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14342	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 105, abstention one, did not vote 11, a total of 166. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After a break - 15.50 hours.]] I'm guessing we have a quorum. Here, now it's 15.50 minutes, and we're due to continue our work at 15.00 hours. Please make a decision to work until 18.50 hours to make up for this time. Please make your point. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14344	I have another suggestion. Why do you, Mr. President, punish us for being here? I'm just waiting for you to get together, you who are obliged to make sure the assembly works. Now it turns out that those who sit around all the time waiting for those they don't have, that they still need to stay longer because of those they don't have. You're just gonna make us look for the quorum any minute and finally find out who's hurting the Rules of Procedure by putting in cards for people who don't even come to the assembly. It would be better to resolve the issue of discipline in the line of the DOS than to harass MPs working on the laws like this. I suggest we do as it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14345	There was no need to suggest that unless my proposal was accepted. My proposal has no intention of punishing anyone. After all, 30 minutes and a few minutes ago, it was on the official record of 160 MPs. So it's that the MPs are coming, but someone doesn't want to insert identification cards, which is at the very end of the line his right. My proposal is just to work longer and not be punished. You don't have to stay here if you don't want to. So, I just suggested we work an hour longer. Please make your point. For 52, against 73, abstentions 10, they did not vote 22, a total of 157 members of Parliament present If you think this is something to applaud, give it up for it. [[Applause]] But the goal is fulfilled. We're continuing our work. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 104, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, a total of 161. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Nesovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 110, abstention four, did not vote five, a total of 165. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 113, there are no abstentions, no vote of 9, a total of 167. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 120, abstention one, they didn't vote four, a total of 170. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Vesic. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill since it was adopted by the Government, the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. Members of the 27th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Goran Vesic and Srdjan Petrovic. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill since it was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Transport and Communications, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Petrovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14346	Dear colleagues, the respected presidency, I think it is a better solution, not only in political but also in technical terms, that the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce is coordinating the driving orders between carriers in Serbia-Montenegro's territory. I think it's a better solution because it's something that's been done so far and there should be the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14347	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14348	I will use the existence of amendments to Article 29 to warn you that you have lightly passed the Chamber of Commerce Act, so also Articles 27, 28, 29. speak how much authority you have given to individuals in this country and how much your way of thinking is that you obviously had to pass such a law. It's coming out of you. Namely, the Chamber of Commerce is now authorised, under Article 29, to delegate the authority to establish the general conditions of transport for inter-republic transport. The Chamber of Commerce, under Article 27, with an amendment submitted to Article 27 and under which the right was extended until 30 November 2002, is now the authority where carriers registered their timetables and can continue to drive. In the light of the laws of those who do not have order of driving at the Chamber of Commerce, those who did not report to the Chamber of Commerce their departure, their lines, you call them wild carriers. And now the question is -- who's right: we who said everyone has to be members of the Chamber of Commerce or you who convinced us that they don't have to be members of the Chamber of Commerce? Here, the first law we pass after the Chamber of Commerce Act states that membership in the Chamber of Commerce is mandatory. You even use a very rough term for those who are potentially not members of the Chamber of Commerce, you call them wild carriers. The flaw and lack of the law is that it has passed several street or remote expressions, which do not correspond to the Serbian language dictionary, in public communication. I don't think you should have. I think you should have been more careful, and there was a time between July and today. He could have suggested that he react and coordinate, he could have predicted our objections. But here's what it is. We've reached the end. I only owe it to you to repeat that the MPs of the SRS cannot, despite the desire to regulate all areas in society, vote for a law that, in this way, the vital spine of our economy, transport, and even the public transport of passengers, regulates in a way that should not have been regulated, in a way that could have been good enough to accept the suggestions of MPs from several parliamentary groups. I think we Serbian radicals tried to make a good contribution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14349	Mr. Pavlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me take advantage of, as an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, to say, in connection with this amendment, that we will not support this amendment. To take advantage of the opportunity and say something about the whole law. If you remember, the SPS parliamentary group in principle pointed to many inconsistencies, law weaknesses, etc., warned and proposed better solutions. As you know, when there was a vote in principle, we were against it. We have left room to ultimately support the law, depending on whether the parliamentary majority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will accept at least one of the 35 amendments proposed by MPs of the opposition parties. As we know for certain now that no amendments we have proposed have literally been accepted, the SPS parliamentary group will vote against this law, for principled and concrete reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14351	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 58, against 114, three abstentions, not four, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This ended the search of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14352	First of all, I must thank you for understanding many points of this law, no matter what, especially the MPs of the opposition, in many things you were against. But I think that, in general, this thing, the amendment to the existing Law on Transport in Road Traffic, had to be done, because a concrete proposal and a request by the businessmen was to make such changes to the devices, above all to regulate inter-republic traffic and transport. Secondly, I have to say that the existing rows of inter-republic traffic are valid until 30 November 2002, so these cabotage problems, which we talked about, will appear in fact only after 30 November 2002. I thank you all one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14353	I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on transport in road transport, in general. For 123, against 58, the abstentions were not voted by two, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on transport in road transport. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – A PROPOSAL OF THE RAD LAW You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milorad Stanulov, Bratislav Đurić, Tomislav Nikolic, Zoran Andjelković, Petar Petrović, Živko Selaković, Dragan Marković, Predrag Čanović, Zoran Novaković, Milos Lukić, together - Sladjan Mijlović, Slobodan Adžić and Srdjan Petrović, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, together - Rodoljub Šabić, Natasa Milojević, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenković, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentjevic, Aleksandar Vatović and Meho Omerović, Nebojša Jović, Aleksandar Vučić, Gordana Pop -Lazić, Natasa Jovanovic, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Tomurić, Vladimir Gudurić, Vladimir Garčević, Radojko Otović, Radović, Toković, Toković, Tokulić and Žradić, Žradić. National MP Dragan Tomic withdrew the amendment he submitted to members 103, 109, 140 and 141 and MP Nebojsa Jovic to Article 3. At the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Borary and Social Affairs, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs Slobodan Adžić and Srdjan Petrović, respectively: to the title above Articles 7 and 7; to Articles 8 and 15; to the amendment to add after Article 17 a new title and new members 17a, 17b and 17v; to Articles 18 and 18; to Articles 21 and 69; to the amendment to add new members 69a and 69b; to Articles 70, 78, 81 and 96; to Articles 78, 81 and 96; to the title above Articles 97; to the amendment to add a new title and new members of 98a, 98b, 98v, 98d, 98d and 98d; to Articles 99, 103, 104, 114, 114, 115, 118, 114, 114, 124 and 166, and to the session of the Legis Committee of Amendment to Article 73. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Legislative Committee has proposed a legal-technical improvement in the text in the following articles: - in Article 18 paragraph 3: "documents that are a condition for working" are replaced by the words: "documents proving the fulfillment of working conditions"; - Article 26 paragraph 1 is amended and reads as follows: "The working relationship for a specified time can be designed to perform certain tasks only for a period which has been continuously or with interruptions for the longest three years. "--in Article 38, paragraph 1 at the beginning of the sentence, the word "employee" is replaced by the word "employee"; - in Article 87, paragraph 1, in the second row, the word "as", is deleted; - in Article 103 in the last position, "there is a need" is replaced by the words "necessary"; and - in Article 126, point 1 is deleted; - "from the work of the employer" are replaced by the words "out of their work". These proposals were agreed by a representative of the proposings at the session of the Legislative Committee and adopted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. At the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Boračka and Social Affairs, the opinion was given by MPs Toma Busetic, Borisvoje Drakulović and Đuro Popovic, and at the session of the Legislative Committee, MPs Zoran D. Nikolic, Dragan Tomic and Dragan Todorovic. He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Article 90(3), the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups have the right to ask for longer debates for parliamentary groups, for all parliamentary groups, from those limited to the Rules of Procedure. Since I belong to a group of people who would never limit the time for discussion, I'm going out to ask you to extend the time to argue indefinitely. You'll see that it won't last any longer than this, and I'll never advocate limiting time, so that's why I can't say 10 hours, 20, 30. It is not worth it, I am against any way to restrict the freedom of speech of the MPs of the people, and therefore I ask you to vote that the time for the debate is not limited to this point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14355	He has the word Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14356	Mr. President, fellow MPs, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the SPS MP's group, proposes that the overall time for discussion in principle under this bill be 15 hours, or three times larger than is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We think this is the time we need, given that it is a serious law that will cause far-reaching consequences. We think that the law has caused a lot of interest before it enters the assembly procedure, especially during the work of this assembly, and we think it takes this much time for all aspects of this law to be seen and to see all the consequences of this law, or the application of this law, when and if adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14357	He has the word Mr. Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14358	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union is proposing that the time for discussion on this agenda be 10 hours. Five hours is very little, and I think this is the point of the agenda where all of us MPs sitting here need to get involved and each of us saying something, what's wrong with this law, because well I couldn't see it, that there is in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14359	There are no new proposals, I put these proposals to the vote, only I cannot propose Mr Nikolic, because there is no time, no limit, no rules of procedure (Employer Tomislav Nikolic from the post: What does the new one have to do with the old rules of procedure? Even in the old rules of procedure, it was not unlimited. Okay, I'll put on the vote that the debate is being conducted indefinitely for a long time, that there are no restrictions in the length of the debate. So, no restrictions. I ask the MPs to make a statement about Mr Nikolic's proposal, that there is no limit in the length of the debate. For 63, against 121, abstention one, did not vote 10, a total of 195. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Zarko Obradovic suggested that the debate lasts 15 hours, in principle. I put Mr. Obradovic's proposal to vote. For 62, v. 129, abstention one, did not vote three, a total of 195. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I am putting Mr Dragan Markovic's motion to limit the debate in principle to 10 hours. Please plead. For 129, against 30, the abstentioned nine, did not vote 28, a total of 196. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal and that the debate will be held in the principle of the draft labour law for 10 hours. You already know what it's like for MPs. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups that, unless they did so, they deliver the lists of speakers. Is there anyone else who needs to deliver the list? No, there isn't. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Minister Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14360	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, you have before you the Labour Act, one of the reform laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt the National Assembly. You know this law has been in public debate for a long time. I'll tell you briefly how this law was done. When we started working on this law, which was February 8, we wanted to do it in an extremely democratic way, and that meant that all social partners were involved in making that law. All the social partners were union representatives, depicted in three large union headquarters -- the Union of Serbian Unions, the Association of Free and Independent Unions and the United Border Trade Unions "Independence". The other social partners are employers. They were presented to representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the Union of Employers of Serbia. And, of course, the third social partner is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That law was done very carefully and well. And in making that bill, all the social partners contributed. The ministry of labour and employment, proposed by this law, wanted this law to be done for the first time in this democratic way. In this regard, we have also invited representatives of all political parties represented in parliament to take part in the drafting of this law and to give their suggestions, their opinions. Some have given their opinion, unfortunately many have not, but I would especially thank the representatives of the parliamentary groups who have found fit to accept the representatives of the government and the representatives of the International Labour Organisation and to discuss the law with them, that is, the DOS parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, the SAA; and in this way they have made one contribution to the drafting of this law. So much for how we did this law. I had to do this for the public, because she kept telling a story that this law is a fruit of the self-government of the Republic of Serbia and not of the social partners. Our wish was to create this law as best conditions for working in this country as possible. You know that today we have over 700,000 unemployed, that we have over 1,200,000 pensioners, that we have a large number of refugees, that we have a large number of fictitious employees, that we have a large number of people on hold. Therefore, our desire was to create conditions for this law to change that state. That's why we started off with one goal: to create first of all, as I said, conditions for greater employment, which is very important -- to curb the work on black. It's a form of work that is very present in our country. More than 600,000 workers are working in a black and gray economy and it is our desire that these workers be no longer black workers, but, as they say, white workers. In law, we have tried to ensure internationally recognised employee rights and I think that in this direction we have achieved excellent co-operation, first of all, with the International Labour Organization, because we have used their expert opinions, and their representatives have taken part in the drafting of this law. Furthermore, we have tried to provide and encourage social dialogue through the law. The way the law was done was the first step. The second step was that an economic and social alliance was formed by representatives of the social partners who would have one very important task, and the task was to monitor the application of this law when it was adopted in parliament. Now let me say a few words about special legal institutes. The law specifically addressed all forms of work, and we tried to make them, above all, flexible forms of work. In this direction, we have also defined the working relationship with part-time, working relationship for a certain time, work outside the premises of employers, self-employment, temporary and occasional jobs and the work of home and auxiliary staff. What's the paper of this law, it's primarily work outside the employer's room, which has not been processed legally so far. We think that, given the development of technology in general in the world and the possibility of working at home, we create conditions for this law to do so. Otherwise, in the world, it is a practice that a large number of people who use this new modern computer technology work at their homes, and that percentage comes to about 20 proms. Another form is self-employment. We haven't covered it with the law so far. Self-employment is a new vision that allows a worker to be an employer at the same time. The government of the Republic of Serbia wants to encourage this self-employment, that a large number of workers find the opportunity to provide themselves with the job. I'll just say a few things that are related to self-employment -- through the Republic Labour Market Office, and now it stimulates this kind of employment; since the funds are small, we have quite envious results, because over 8,000 workers have been employed in this way, and the funds that have been allocated were between 17 and 52,000 dinars. The new form is also the work of domestic and auxiliary staff, which has not been regulated so far. The work implies that all those who have so far worked in this way can acquire the same rights that other employees have. What does that mean? You know there's one need for a large number of medical staff, for example, that would be involved in the care of old people. You have a large number, too, of those housekeepers and they've mostly worked on black before now, or they've worked on black. We have stipulated in the law that they have the same right to conclude the same contract of working with the employer, and as a guarantee we have made it possible for them to verify such a contract in local self-government, and thus we have created protection as well as for all other employees. When it comes to the basic rights of employees, they are absolutely at the level of fundamental rights that other workers have in developed European countries. So, the worker has the right to receive adequate income, limited working hours, rest and absence, the right to protection at work, the right to material security during the temporary application of employment. I should say that in this respect we are absolutely not lagging behind other countries in the environment and in Europe, especially when it comes to the rights to various absences or to sick leave. The law includes newspapers and minimum earnings that so far did not exist in the old labour law. What is important is that the law regulates that profits must be paid only in money, and not as they have so far been in a variety of other natural forms - and you know it very well - various halves, sugar, oil, flour and so on. Minimum earnings have been introduced to protect employees from employer's will, and minimum earnings, above all, are determined by employers and trade unions. If employers and trade unions cannot agree, then the government together with them determines the amount of minimum earnings and, what is important, what is published in the Official Messenger in order to make it available to all. When it comes to special protection of employees, we took care first of all of youth, then the protection of women and motherhood and the protection of disabled people. When it comes to the protection of young people, it is absolutely forbidden by law to employ a person under 15 years of age, and those who are older must have written consent from parents or guardians and such persons cannot work on difficult physical affairs, such persons cannot work at night, underground, under water, and cannot work on jobs that threaten their morals or prevent them from schooling. What is particularly important is that a parent or guardian can stop such a working relationship at any time. When it comes to the protection of women, I think we have achieved the highest standards here and in that part of the care we have dedicated to the protection of motherhood and you will see that in the legal solution we have, when it comes to maternity, child care, the greatest protection in Europe. Normally, there have been a lot of controversy about how maternity leave is abolished, how maternity leave is three months, how rights are reduced, and I now responsibly argue here that maternity leave and child care is 365 days, that we pay 100%, and that we even extended those rights and gave the possibility that, let's say, another parent, the husband can use that right. Sir, I assume you're the father and you know that a child's father can warm up a bottle of milk and feed a child, so that's why we've given the child's father a chance to get it. The law prohibits unfair competition. The ban applies only to employees who acquire particularly important new technological knowledge, a wide range of business partners, important business information and business secrets. That's how I think we protected the employers. When it comes to surplus employees, the law introduces the obligation of an employer who does technological innovation to do a program for the solution of extra employees, and in particular employers who employ more than 50 people, it is very important that this can be resolved in several ways. The important thing is that it's supposed to solve that so-called. Technological or economic surplus include union representatives, who will actively work with employers to address the problem. We have laid down by law a great protection that an employer can't take other employees into that workplace within three months of the day of discharge, and if needed, he is required to receive a worker who worked there, unless he first found another job. The law has given particular importance to collective bargaining. When you look, and I assume you've worked very closely on the law, you'll see that the whole law is so designed to point to collective agreements, to point to collective bargaining and to give great importance to collective bargaining. There's been a lot of controversy about it in public, especially with the unions, as this law abolishs the collective agreement, which is absolutely not true. For ten years now, this country has collective agreements, all collective agreements are valid and valid when this law is adopted in the Assembly. That's very clear in the law. We have even extended the rights of collective bargaining and collective bargaining by this law. For the first time, we gave the opportunity to sign collective agreements at the level of municipalities, cities and provinces. I think collective agreements are very important. It is significant that collective agreements are signed by representatives of social partners, which are representatives of employers and union representatives. More specifically, representatives of representative trade unions and representatives of representative employers sign. Where representativeness is determined, it should be said that the limit for the signing of a general or border collective contract is 10% of the employees in the Republic, and for individual collective agreements signed in enterprises is 15% of the employees in the company. The law makes it very clear that union organization is absolutely free. The only thing that is needed when a union is set up is to carry out an overt at the Ministry of Labour and Employment. The law stipulates that more than 50 employees can form advice from employees. The government and ministry's position was to potentiate and develop employee advice, as it is a practice that is applied in European countries, and has produced good results. Unfortunately, the participants in the work, above all representatives of the union, were opposed to being of great importance to the advice of the employees, as this would contradict their interests in factories, as they are organised on a factory principle rather than on a borderline like in Western Europe. The law abolished formalism in the establishment and termination of employment. We tried to liberalize employment, in a way, and lay off workers. When it comes to employment, the law is no longer required to discuss competitions for vacant jobs, because our wish was to encourage faster employment. You know that so far it's been a practice that if you have a job opening, you have to announce it, then wait for a certain deadline, to form a commission, and then talk to the candidates, then you're still waiting for the right to file a complaint and it took a very long time. It is our desire to make it much more efficient, in fact we have applied what is already happening in practice, which is that in direct agreements between employers and workers get to faster employment as quickly as possible, because ultimately those who deal with private businesses, and I guess there are them here in the O.R., and now they hire workers in that way. When it comes to termination, the worker may cancel the work contract within 15 days, and the employer is obliged to cancel the work contract within 60 days. There are layoffs that are out of the will of employers and workers, resulting from whether the company is successful or not, whether it is prohibited to work or not. Normally, there are layoffs that come when the employer quits the worker. What is very important and what needs to be pointed out, we have in the law provided that the employer can fire the worker unless he fulfils the obligations, unless he has the results of the work, if his behaviour is not in line with the prescribed standards and if there is a normal theft, to the point that such a worker is not able to continue to work with the employer. It has caused controversy again because it has been said that employers will now fire workers for hating them. Also, because you have directors, in social property, they will fire workers just because they have ugly eyes, as someone once said. I think the law has very clearly defined it and it is clearly said that it will get fired if it is determined that it has made a certain mistake at work, so it is very clear. On the other hand, I think we need to clear up once that employers will automatically fire workers. I think it's in the interest, first of all, for the employer to get paid well, to do his job well, and then that employer, to try to keep such a worker. As far as workers' protection is concerned, we've introduced the arbitration institute in law. So there's arbitration as the first employee protection institute, I think it's one of the good papers in the law, because we've avoided so-called. Disciplinary committees, which had no purpose. In this way, we introduced arbitration to ensure that trade unions get much greater powers, because arbitration consists, above all, of union representatives and employers' representatives. It is very important that arbitration is binding for both. The second form is protection against labour inspection. The powers of labour inspection have been increased and strengthened in this law. It is possible that the inspection of the work is maximum punishment for the employer unless he implements certain solutions under the law, which are, above all, in the interests of the workers. Normally, the third part is a judicial solution, i.e. the possibility of such rights being exercised through the court. What should be said, and that is that this law created the possibility of having one liberalisation first of all in employment, and then normally in layoffs, to encourage employment and solve one of the basic problems, which is so-called. Excess employees in our country. I thank you for listening to me very carefully. I hope that the debate that will be of quality will make the right decision, and that right decision is the adoption of this law. This law is needed by both the workers and the employers of this country, and it seems to me that at this point it is most needed by that so-called. the social property we still have. Because if we want this social property to be effective in the next four years, until it's privatized, to be qualified in some way to play that game on that market, there must be a law like that of their competitors in the countries of Europe. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14361	We have an objection that a lot of smokes are cold, and here we have an objection that it's very warm in the O.R. Now I don't know who to please, the right to tell you. Half wants it to be colder and half of it to be warmer. Shall I put it to a vote? Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14362	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs discussed the draft law on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the 219 amendments submitted by the MPs of the Republic of Serbia. Those 219 amendments can be settled into three groups. In the first group, they would find amendments that worked and were in favour of improving the law, and they related to better defining the relationship between employers and workers, as well as to greater protection of workers' rights. The second group of amendments are those amendments that simply went to make nothing new happen. By accepting such amendments, we would, in fact, annul the whole law and it would not be necessary to pass a new law. The third group of amendments are only written to be written, and the amendments that some MPs have submitted to slow down the work of all of us, as has been done so far, to slow down the changes that we have advocated, and for which most of us are now in favour. Of the 219 proposed amendments, the Committee has adopted 24 amendments and is proposing that MPs accept these amendments. Some are already part of the law so we can accept the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14363	Do the MPs who have given their opinion on the committees come forward? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the labour law is a real pearl in reform laws adopted by DOS authorities during 2001. Following tax laws, law in the field of legal and social legislation, the Law on Privatisation, this is a crucial law that should circle the so-called reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, under these reforms, they include higher burdens, higher taxes, suspension or restrictions on workers' rights, the sale of all that is worth in Serbia, the dismissal of workers, various replacements and various penalties. This law is the worst law that comes into congregation procedure and will have the most severe consequences for employees and all workers. What is the essence of the bill? The essence of the bill is that the boss or more popular said employer is everything, and the worker is almost nothing. The boss decides on everything, no limits, and who will work, and how much they will do, and what they will do. The employer decides on overtime, annual vacation, paid leave, sick leave, assesses the results of the work, assesses the ability of the worker, whether or not he is capable, assesses the ugly behavior that can leave him without a job. The boss determines the salary, determines the union that will represent the worker. It's up to the overworked boss to decide for himself. What are the rights of workers in this entire law? They are the best defined member of the 12th Labour Act, which says: "Employee is obliged to perform responsiblely and securely the tasks assigned to him by the employer". If they tell you that this law is in line with the rules of the Western European countries, they are not telling the truth. So, for example, in Italy, firing workers is a very complicated job and a complex act. The worker's guilt must be evidence. The employer is obliged to respect the procedure which will enable the worker to challenge the discharge act. Even when the discharge act is in effect, the worker has the right to refute that discharge act. How does he do that? It works in a complex court procedure, and that's what it's called. Two-degree court case. The subject, then, is going through a complex court procedure, which assesses the correctness of the employer's actions. After this, the legislator introduces a new institute, which is the Institute of Reconciliation. What's the situation in France? In France, under the conditions of strong unions and responsible governments, the government itself, and sometimes the head of state, must react to the dismissal of a larger number of workers. This large number of workers are considered, imagine, 100 workers. A hundred workers, when fired, have to be called by the government or I'm the head of state of France. What's in this proposal of all this, if we want to look up to Western Europe and the Western world. There's almost nothing. By whose example or order was such a bill made? It was made according to the IMF's proposal. Such laws were written by the IMF for all transition countries, such as Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, and now Serbia. Slovenia and some other countries have not accepted these proposals and have thanked the IMF's good services. The way they went, we know. As we pass, we can assume. What do you want with this, what does the IMF want? They want bosses to come to our country, where they'll be clean ground. He'll buy what's worth, and he'll put a lock on what's not worth it and what's not for use. And, so, that way, they'll get a clean market for their expensive products. And what will happen to our workers - they will remain on the street, without any protection. (President: Mr. Bushettic, time. ) Their goal is clear, and this authority wide opens the door for them to achieve these goals that are deeply contrary to our interests and interests of our workers. How else do you consider collective agreements to be optional, to reduce annual vacations, paid leave, sick leave, maternity rights, and to strengthen pension conditions, the position of disabled workers, and layoffs and surplus employees become an easy thing for the employer. I suggest that this bill be withdrawn from the assembly procedure, because it is best for all employees, best for unions and best for the state itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14365	Are any of the other MPs, who have given their opinion on the committees in charge, reporting for a word? Please, the word is by MP Dragan Tomic, who has issued an opinion on the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14366	Dear Members of the People, I hope you have read this bill and know what is given in this proposal as the project task of this Government of the Republic of Serbia. We've got the worst law we've ever received in the process. In addition to having a standard violation of the Constitution, we here can find multiple members of the violation of the Constitution when it comes to employment rights, but I definitely must say that, in addition to that, employees and the young generation, who are to be employed, are deprived of all rights. I don't understand anything when you say that the Institute of Competition and Adverts has been abolished. How does anyone even know where it has a job in Serbia? Under which criteria can be employed, which is necessary professionally prepared for a particular job, if the first member of this law says there is no collective agreement. That collective contract wouldn't have made sense in itself if it wasn't for the rights of workers. When someone here comments that employers' rights have been compromised, I think the previous law has easily given great rights to employers. Maybe it didn't take that long. I get the impression it's not a real problem, it's with what we want with those rights. How we want to establish these rights and what kind of relationships we need to establish. It is not true that we have agreed on boards, or at meetings with union representatives, and especially not between ourselves on the fact that this law is good. The first deals with the unions, then the deal that started at the beginning, went in the direction that this law, which is bad anyway, if it can fix something. However, it is obvious that no one cares about repairs but simply about the force that has been demonstrated at all levels for a long time. I'll illustrate it on a few examples. The first example is -- as the minister said earlier, that we now have the most economic stand-ups in the protection of motherhood. That is not true, but we are now and below every European standard. The previous law regulated standards, and you, when you're going through this Europe, read this, because in the Benelux countries, in France, women who have three children or more have the right to conclude a job internship from 18 years of age, full-time employment, and begin to exercise all rights on that basis. When they have more than three, up to five children, they have the right to retire. In order to protect the generations that are coming, they have specifically regulated it. And here we have the maternity leave abolished from three months after the day of delivery and moved on to sick leave. This is an absolute difference between maternity leave and sick leave there is a significant difference. Not to mention, for a third child, all privileges have been lifted by this law. Therefore, it is an acceleration of the development of the young generation and the future of Serbia and the Serbian people. When we talk about the employer's resignation in point 1), it is said - if it is found that the employee does not achieve the results of the work. What work results? Who prescribes the results of the work? Whether it is personal will, will or they are prescribed and defined as foreseen results of work. And the second point is, if there's no need for knowledge and ability to do the jobs he's working on. This necessary knowledge and ability has been seen in examples by a number of workers who remain unemployed after 15 or 20 years of work. Therefore, this law is far from what this Serbia needs, and it is far from social access to the working class, far from the truth and also from Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14367	Thank you. The floor was addressed by MP Djura Popovic, who held an opinion at the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs session. Excuse me, Mr. Popovic, can I give the word to Minister Milovanovic first?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14368	Let's get this straight, because it's coming out with the wrong data again, and again, there it is, talking about how cruel we are to our women. I will only provide certain data relating to the duration of maternity leave in various countries. In Serbia, 365 days, in Slovenia 365 days, in Macedonia 270 days, in Slovakia 196, Hungary 168, in Italy 154 days, Poland from 112 to 126, in Greece 105, in Germany 98, in Turkey 84. So when I say we have the most in Europe, I'm behind it. And when it comes to rights, here's the Law on Social Care for Children, which says that for the first three children in the family the salary is 100%, and for the fourth and the next child 80% of the determined amount of compensation and earnings within the meaning of Articles 13 to 15 of this Act. In municipalities, i.e. parts of municipalities with a negative rate of natural income, the salary for the fourth child in the family is 100% of the determined amount of compensation or earnings. So everything you said was not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14369	Thank you. I apologize to you, Mr. Popovic, for waiting a little while. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14370	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers of Labour and Employment, Mr Dragana Milovanovic, shook up the mountain, worked to improve the unconcerned draft labour law, which finally offered us the executive body of our assembly to give the final word on it. This fact could already be the reason why, on 14 November this year, at a session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, as its member, I have singled out my opinion. Of course, there are far more reasons for this procedure, more precise arguments. The fact is that the proposer - the government of the Republic of Serbia - and this time has made full use of its determination to shape the labour law in accordance with Western-European legislation. Tom, as in previous cases, can't be a grudge, but the very effect of this little easy work and too modest, at least if it counts on well-intentioned suggestions from foreign experts for labour legislation. It is also difficult to argue that, compared to the earlier text, the final changes are made by some kind of cosmetic or perhaps a lecturer. Of course, I don't think I'm comparing the government of the Republic of Serbia to the congregation's lecturing service. But it is almost impossible to understand that of so many amendments, an almost negligible number has found its place in our proposed text, despite the well-known reactions in the unions and, besides, you wanted to admit it or not, in a very significant part of the public opinion, which means our common electoral body. It should be borne in mind that for the letter of the labour law and that not only current and future workers are interested, but also pensioners and many others, all Serbian citizens are better told. Speaking of amendments, there's a lot of strangers out there, so I'd like to use some statistics. For example, the DSS parliamentary group has offered, with the possibility that this information is not quite accurate, to the final "redaction" of our Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, a total of 42 amendments. It may not be surprising that only 10 of their amendments were accepted, but MPs from this parliamentary group pulled themselves out of procedure 24 of their amendments, some of which were quite relevant. What do you say about that? Maybe it's some kind of mover's concession, which is to accept the harsher word "trade within DOS," as some DOS opponents say. They still say, just like they're playing with the fate of the people, like in roulette. MPs in the Soviet Parliament don't really care about this kind of culinary combination in the Assembly. Our only real concern is that, in general, solutions are offered according to the measure of the newly-companed world of bizinis, and are not properly respected by our economic and social conditions, that is, the reality of our daily life. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, in addition to what I have said, don't forget that among the 14 members of our Assembly group, even 8 are employers. To them, and the names that I am a 20-year employer, believe me, did not even come up with such privileges as offered to employers by the offered text of the labour law. Perhaps offered much more corresponds to future employers, whom some from abroad are so anxiously waiting for. But in doing so, they are not aware of the fact that in the world, powerful businessmen are long ago clear that much greater profits will be made if they allow their employees to make as good a standard as possible, with high profits, but if they are surrounded by workers on the edge of naked existence. With the offer at the cost of what has been built by the torment and sweat of generations, foreign customers should be offered even cheap and disbursed labour. That's why we have to imagine this legal act. Of course, at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, I also issued an opinion on the grounds of, at the very least, an incorrect relationship with the amendments of the MPs from the Soviet Parliament group. Some of these amendments certainly have dots of contact with the amendments of the MPs of other parliamentary groups. (President: Mr. Popovic, time. ) But none of our amendments have been accepted by the Committee of which I am a member, let alone by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The hearing was not for amendment to the 4th President of the Assembly Group of the SS, MP Dragan Markovic, that Article 71 of Section 1 changes and reads: "A woman who is employed has the right to maternity leave, one, until the year of the child's life, for the first, second, fourth, and every next child, and two, until the final year of life for the third child." Not to quote further the text of this amendment, I guess that's enough. Dear fellow Members of mine, it's as if we were living in the middle of China, not in a country where there's a white plague, which is what worries me and many other duchess. Only if some, for some of them known reasons, care that our northern province is experiencing, in terms of the ethnic composition of the population, the fate of Serbs and other current minorities in relation to the Albanian population in the southern Serbian province. (President: Mr. Popovic, I've already warned you during time, you've exceeded seven minutes. ) A colleague, Dr Predrag Canovic, in his amendment one, concerning Article 14. The proposal of this law, which begins: "The persons seeking employment, as well as the employees, cannot be placed in an unfavourable position with respect to others, regardless of gender, birth, language, race, nationality etc." According to Dr Canovic, behind the word "birth", add "age, disability, health status". In doing so, the proposer explained his amendment by respecting the suggestion given to the relevant member of this law. (President: Please finish. It's been seven minutes. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the relevant assembly committees, would not have helped the application, let alone a well-intentioned suggestion. ... Mr. Popovic... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14371	The word is Mr. Ivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14372	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should discuss one thing, to agree, and that is Article 98, that is the right to replication and to present representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is currently defending the labour law. In fact, a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia came out and said dead cold - not true, not true. Malten, it's said to be a lie. It was not said in which capacity it comes out -- whether it comes out in replica or comes out as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask you to point out that it is coming out, because if it comes out as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then the one who is said to be not telling the truth has the right to reply, because, under Article 98, paragraph 1 or 2, that right has been acquired. For example, if we are talking about maternity leave, a dead cold government official said that, according to his proposal for the law, 365 days is maternity leave, which is a pure lie. It says here in the law: "The maternity leave takes up to three months from the day of birth." This is Article 71, page 19 of the bill. The second thing is that maternity has the right to a sick child's care and can only be 65% of the average personal income. Today she has the right to full pay for all 12 months.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14373	Please calm down so we can hear each other out. A representative of the government, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the right to report whenever he asks for a word. I guess he didn't ask for a line, otherwise he'd point it out in particular. The word is Mr. Dragan Tomic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14374	I expected, gentlemen, the MPs, from the motion that at least, since he wrote this bill, or who was already doing it for this ministry, when they explain, to read what it says in the proposal, and not to make it false in the proposal itself. The first and most serious untruth refers to maternity leave. It definitely ends three months after birth, at which point child care is being built, or sick leave paid at 65% of the average salary in the Republic of Serbia, which is now around 4-5 000. And by law, he has the right, when he has maternity leave, on full pay, 365 days. The previous law also allows, if the child is undergrown, or the degree of development needed has not arrived, the right to another 6 months. Here, all rights are lifted with 90 days and no one from this pay phone can say that this is the best European law and that it is in line with all European norms. This law is far from Europe, from European norms and from the rights of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14375	He has the word Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14376	I have to explain again, it's obvious that men appear here, and they, normally, aren't women, so obviously they didn't understand the essence of Article 71. Since they didn't, I have to read it: "A woman who is employed has the right to maternity leave and leave work for the care of a child for 365 days." I think it's very clearly written. Then: "A woman who is employed can begin maternity leave based on the findings of a competent health organization 45 days earlier, and necessarily 28 days before birth time. The maternity leave lasts up to three months from the day of delivery. A working woman, at the end of maternity leave, has the right to leave for child care until 365 days from the day of maternity leave. The father of the child can use the right of the attitude of the first member, in case the mother leaves the child, if she dies and so on." Dear MPs, you must be a little quieter so you can hear what I'm saying. Thank you. "The father of the child can use the right of the position of the fourth member if the spouses agree." So, we've expanded the rights of our spouse here, and we've given the child's father the opportunity to use that right to care for the child, and that's why it's said: maternity leave and leave for the care of the child for up to a year. I guess that's clear to everyone, my dear MPs. I guess that's the point. When it comes to paying, so don't pull the weights to talk and to disabling Serbia's public that no maternity leave will be paid 100%. It's very clear and very precise, I read a copy of the law on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14377	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14378	Dear ladies and gentlemen, since such a fierce debate has not evolved almost in this House, we have had a slightly more peaceful period, because we have had some of the laws on the agenda that have not been so bad. I have a few opening notes to make. I wouldn't agree with my predecessors who said this might be one of the worst laws we've had on the agenda so far. This is really the worst law, the motion for the worst law. Why - if DOS promised workers great employment in the election campaign, if DOS promised to open new jobs, if DOS promised to increase productivity due to the lifting of sanctions? What have we got today, what have we got out of those promises? We got, first, six or seven months ago, a set of tax laws, which then caused a real storm of enthusiasm among some economic experts, and I'm going to remind you that then I asked Mr. Djelic, the finance minister -- is that set of tax laws going to bring about a improvement, an increase in production, and within what time period? Of course, we get the answer every day, when we look at the reports from the Republic Bureau of Statistics, we have the right to look into our wallets and see what the situation is caused by this set of laws. Furthermore, we have considered and tried to put an end to this bill in some way to reality through amendments. I have to say that the minister himself said that this was one of the laws done in co-operation with the social partners, so these social partners, mostly unions, of great pleasure, some months ago and I don't know how many days ago, came here in front of the Assembly and almost entered the Assembly. I have not seen anyone from the congregation come out to greet the gathered workers, who have gathered to welcome this bill, of course, with great pleasure. And I'm not even sure that the same workers will get back together if we don't adopt a bill like this. So why did the unions so rebel against a bill, which, according to the minister, they themselves support? I've been taking advantage of the opportunity to move a little bit more among my voters and, believe me, I haven't met a single man who hasn't asked me - aman people, what are you doing with these labour laws, pension insurance, etc. Everyone, literally everyone, both young and old, asked me -- why is it going to increase the retirement age? I agree that we have over 700,000 unemployed. Now I'm taking the opportunity to ask Mr. Minister -- when will these better working conditions be created, for those who work, because those who don't work have almost exceeded the number of 800,000. Therefore, it sounds hypocritical that the proposed law will provide greater material and social security for employees. Of those nearly 800,000 people who are jobless, there are a large number of young people. These young people, in addition to not working, which has no job opening, will not be able to come to these jobs that are busy because the retirement age is moving almost five years away. I must say that the aim of all these reform laws is the economic subjugation of our country, that the objective of tax laws is to destroy the environment for the work of our economy, and that the purpose of this law is to create conditions for those who are employed to lose their jobs. In order for employers to fire people, to the extent that it suits them, one of these laws must be passed. That's why I couldn't agree with one of these legal proposals, and I took advantage of my ability to express my disagreement with such a bill. I hope, fellow MPs, that you will have an understanding of what I have indicated and that we will not get into such an unexplainable situation that we can reach if such a legal proposal is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14379	The presidents of the parliamentary groups are on their way. The first was Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill that has brought great attention to the Serbian public, especially the attention of the workers. Although this is a law aimed at protecting the sole rights of employers, the impact of the provisions of this law will be found exclusively by workers, or those who are still nominally so, since for these years and some days since you care about the economy in Serbia, there are fewer and fewer workers who do not do so by doing so. Of course, there are employees who can be called workers on this basis, but there are fewer of them too, so that the minister could very easily rename his ministry to the Ministry of Labour and Fires, not for work and detachment. What is the fate of this law? First, he started to publicly debate you in the old good manner, and I see the minister expressing you as a youth, that he is not a foreigner. You've come to the conclusion that you won't have union support for this bill. At the same time, a DOS political party said it was not for the bill. Workers' unrest has begun, and you have stopped the union demonstrations from promising that some fifty-something amendments to the bill, which various parliamentary groups have submitted, will be accepted. In this way, the situation in Serbia is calm, and we are never MPs from anyone, nor have we received from union representatives a list of amendments that they agreed with the government and with the heads of parliament groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the SRS has that obligation that it always has when it speaks of a law in the National Assembly or decides how it will vote, that obligation is our political, our economic programme, and that obligation imposes us against this bill. That obligation has forced us to write a large number of amendments. Their destiny is that they ended up in a basket by the promoter because they fundamentally change his concept of law. Of course they're changing. This bill was written by employers. And what kind of employers do we have in Serbia? We have a kind of employer that we've recognised as employers so far, they'd be the directors of social enterprises. We have another type of employers, owners of private companies, who would divide into subgroups again: those who stole society enterprises using inflation, hyperinflation; using the first and second rounds of privatisation; and then cheap buying from workers their rights acquired by internship or in that factory or even in the Republic of Serbia, and there are those here in these parliamentary benches; and of course those self-involved privates, who were developing their own private business, sometimes with the help of the state, and sometimes without any help, or they brought capital from abroad; or they were in contact with the government. And now many of them are in contact with the current government, and that's how they've been developing their business. This law is made for future employers. So this is what we're opening up to, and we're saying, this and this we're going to meet, with all the rigorous conditions you've set for us so far, and here's what we're going to do for you. We're gonna stop the whole factory production, and it's almost at zero right now. In addition, this three months, regardless of the last three months, since last year they are not for comparison, and even this three months will not reach zero, or one to one in relation to production last and this year. It is obvious that it is working hastily to make factories a place where workers will be collected twice a month to raise some money. And not even in factories, now it's made up at different checkpoints in the city, workers don't even gather in factories anymore. And that, eventually, by separating the continent from the great giants, the continents that are already functioning on their own, to attract some foreign partner who is willing to produce in such conditions in these factories. In order to produce, to bring capital, and you to get credit, you have to meet the additional conditions. One condition is that there is no burden on the workers. And you're very rigorously meeting these conditions, and there's less of those who come to work, and there's less and less of them who come to work. Many large businesses now have their larger parts of employment, education, turn around, preparing for people to lose their jobs. That's one condition. The second condition is, even when he comes and receives workers in a working relationship, that he has no obligation to them. You are told - workers in Serbia are used to communism, socialism, self-government, what was bad and what was good there. What was good there, it's workers' rights, it's the protection of workers, it can't be in Serbia, and you're showing it by this law. Please state, Mr. Minister, of 183 members of this bill, one member in which conditions are more favourable for an employee than in a law that will cease to apply. One member, whether it's a leave of business, whether it's a right to work, whether it's quit. Imagine, even a soldier from the army when he gets back to work, now he only has five days to get back to work. It used to be 10 days. It's five days now, even that. Next, let's clear up right now what a maternity leave is and what a child's care is, so you don't distract us here. The law clearly states that maternity leave is three months. If it was started 40 days before birth, then there are only three months left after childbirth, and then the child begins to care. A woman is no longer a foster mother, but a nurse. That's quite clear. If that were the same, why would you be introducing a child care term? Why not have 365 days of maternity leave and make everything clear to everyone in Serbia. What are the amounts now in case the worker gets fired, and not his own guilt? They're smaller than they've been before. Everything's been reduced, at least for five days, at least to 3%, but it's getting more rigorous per worker than it's ever been. I understand you're gonna have a lot of trouble with the unions here, but you should have them. You had negotiations with them, the public found out, and I was watching television to find out that you had agreed, that you had accepted part of the labour requirements and showed them the amendments that should be made here in the Assembly to get the workers satisfied. We are now learning that the government has adopted just over a third of the amendments. It's a hoax. If any unions will be calm in front of this fact, I don't know. I see there's a union that's still listening to you unspeakably. I see there are two who don't listen to you. And of those two, one has an anthem that was state. Even his president, I see, you're putting some kind of crime into the public or some of the things he should be ashamed of, so he doesn't lead the workers. You say, Mr. Minister, that this law casts half out of union action. We seem to have completely thrown it out in March of the month and said that the profit is in the future only in the money, that bill was here. But, Mr. Minister, I have a poster (shows a poster) that I invite you to meet, you are the best one - Notice, on November 8th, in the rooms of the Independent Union, the entry of those interested in the delivery of potatoes at the price of 7.5 dinar per kilogram, the manufacturer delivers from the village of Kostunica. Maybe that's why you changed it. Payment is in two wars. You know what, at a time when you were the opposition, there were half-ways, and now only potatoes. So he says it can only be written three sacks, no more, no more right to write. We were prepared to really discuss this law in a manner that resembles the National Assembly, in a way that you can't put everything into the law, but that you can't even stand to be cursed by someone on the street because it's a passed law that directly affects him. Now you've predicted a provision... I'm ready, but I think I'm gonna have to do it on the second call. Here, I'm done. I'm going to go through a lot of members, which I'm going to draw your attention to if they're rigorous for the worker, but you're now ready to say that working relationship can stop because the employer has no job for the worker anymore. Is that so nice to say? What happens then to this worker, and the employer has the right even, as you suggest, almost unlimitedly to receive people for a certain time and as soon as one of them expires for a certain time, he receives others, receiving third, there is no obligation at all. Those up to 50 employees have almost half their obligations no longer as others do. It is obvious what the territory in the Republic of Serbia is preparing for. I wouldn't take part in that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. There's still some part of the public that you're going to define yourself. The conscience you showed on several occasions told me that you would not vote in favour of this bill at all. The fact that your representatives of the parliamentary groups have accepted the union's demands, rounded up to 50 and some amendments, tells me that this law, like this, without these amendments, is not acceptable to you. We come to what is particularly missing in this congregation. We're getting word-tasting, we're getting word-to-mouth. If you and the unions agreed to change the law so they wouldn't still be on city streets, then change the bill. And if you're not willing to fulfill that obligation, if you only needed one time period in which you would, through other people in the union, calm down the unions, limit their rebellion to what you can handle, I'm convinced they'll wait for you in 5 or 10 days, not even on the bill, but on a normal situation, but that same resistance will wait for you. Personally, Mr. Minister, I wish you luck in your life, but a test for me as a citizen of the Kragujevac, for every minister in the government is coming to the car factory. Since some ministers have been flooded in the car factory, they are gone and not beaten by members of political parties, but by workers of the Kragujevac car factory. So I'm telling you, you can't convince me, because I started at 19 as an intern and you can't convince me that this law is good. Perhaps many of you who have graduated from college have become MPs, and you don't know much about life, especially you don't know what it looks like when an employer gives too much power into his hands. Perhaps a few of them, here might be this colonel who throws me out of the bench, Milosevic's fellow from Dayton, perhaps you can convince him that the law is good. He was an employer where the workers stood still, but the workers would no longer stand still. This country was built by our fathers, our grandfathers, and many of us who have almost 30 years of training. The employers who come to almost won't be able to expect you to fulfill all their wishes, just before they gave you anything for that service.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14381	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, after which Toma Busetic, and then Ceda Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak of this law as an employer, not as a politician. As an employer, I say this law is very harmful to our workers. Three months ago, we took away their new Privatisation Act, and once this law is passed, we will also take away all the rights that our workers had. A Serbian Unity Party if it prepared some law in the Assembly, we would have the first public debate with union representatives. That's how this assembly worked with union representatives, the three largest unions, without one union, and that union belongs to Mr. Minister, the only union that agreed with this law. We've agreed to 50 amendments. The nine amendments were accepted, and these are the amendments proposed by the Serbian Unity Party and over 20 DSS amendments. I'd just ask Dejana Michaela to come forward and say something that's changed, so you've pulled 20 amendments and you're just saying, just to let us accept that amendment 105, we're going to vote for this law. The Serbian Unity Party and I personally think that there is no problem with the employer of the company's owners. The problem is in state, public and social enterprises. How to hire workers there, without any competition, without any ads. Also, one member of 71, which is a maternity leave, Mr. Minister says that it is enough 90 days for mothers who give birth to children to be on maternity leave, and says in the text that fathers can use sick leave and have children. He forgot that mothers nurse children, not fathers. I'm sure Mr. Secretary ended up with a neighbor, but not every advanced neighbor does. Also, Mr. Minister said that in Germany, mothers have about 70 days of pregnancy, and he forgot that in Germany, the standard of living is very high and that salaries are 10 times higher, or 15 times higher than in Yugoslavia. The Serbian Unity Party has objections to individual members, such as Article 1. Proposals -- collective agreements become optional so that employers, as well as co-contractors at other levels, can and do not have to conclude the same. How's a worker gonna start his rights if there's no collective agreement, and we know how they did while collective agreements existed? At the same time, Article 3 regulates that the labour rules are laid down by the employer. Therefore, if the employer of the labour rule can regulate relationships with the employee in place of collective agreements, clearly he will choose the rules and thus spare himself the unpleasant conversations with the workers, or their representatives. Also, in Article 9, the employee has the right to make a proper profit. How will the employee prove that he has been paid the right income, which are criteria, with whom he will agree, since every employer struggles to pay as little pay as possible, because we know that the contributions to the state are very high. Article 12 states: "Employee is obliged to perform responsiblely and securely the tasks assigned to him by the employer. "What are the limits? Laby and nothing in this article. Article 26 states that a working relationship for a certain period of time may take up to three years. I don't think a comment is necessary for this member. Articles 43 to 48 refer to the right of the employer to redistribute his work hours, so that the working week may be up to 60 hours. We don't think this is right. Member of the 62nd employer opens an opportunity to deny a vacation to the employee. Imagine, each worker in advance, four, five or six months' appointment, or payment to go on a vacation, to go to the sea or to a spa, takes a voucher and the employer says - you can't go even though you reported it, even though you paid. According to Article 103, an employee may be fired, according to point 4 of this article, "if he does not respect work discipline, or (refer to attention) if his behaviour is such that he cannot continue his work with the employer. "You know what, the worker beats the door a little harder or doesn't close the door, then the employer says, "Come here, you act undisciplined, and I'll fire you. Dragan Milovanovic, from the scene, is that with you at the firm? Mr. Minister, I've been a private contractor for 20 years, I've got 106 employees, and I've taken more care of my employees, and all the other workers, than you've taken care of your union where you were the president of Mr. Minister. This bill of law that the former minister suggests something like that. It's really a miracle. You seem to have no contact with workers and no real information about what the future of this law is. The future of this law is very dark. We may, or you will pass this law. Gentlemen, remember that there will be social unrest in Serbia. That workers have nothing to live on. That the salaries are very low. That there are no new jobs, that small and medium-sized enterprises, new ones, can't just form, because they need to be formed by those who have lost their jobs. Those who have lost their jobs do not have enough money, and it is known that the government is not doing any lending and that there is no place to open a new small and medium-sized enterprise. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this new law that our minister proposes is, in principle, cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. I hope this assembly doesn't pass this law, because this law is very harmful to the workers, and all of us sitting here will have great responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14383	The word is Toma Busetic, followed by Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14384	Mr. President, honourable MPs, that courting the international community by the new government is present at every turn. That's even with this law. Immediately, Article 1 of this bill, as the basis for law-making, highlights international conventions, not the Constitution of its own country. It should be recalled that current labour legislation, our legislation so far, has been based on ratified international conventions, so there is no reason to mention international conventions again. Instead of the rather concise and clear law that has been in force so far, we now have one inaccurate, broad law with 183 members, with a lot of legal gaps, which only employers can benefit from, and can very often use it all. What's wrong with this law or what's good? In my opinion, there's almost nothing good about it. First, collective agreements are abolished as institutes, are no longer mandatory, but are academic. So the most important things in this area -- employment, layoff and profit -- are no longer defined or regulated by collective agreements. In Article 12, I've already spoken of the rights of workers and his place. So, the obligation to listen blindly to the employer, boss, that's his most important and greatest right. The Institute of Advertising or Competition is being abolished, it's not good. It simply won't allow employees under equal conditions to apply for certain jobs. How a teacher in Belgrade will know that she has a job opening at some elementary school in Belgrade, an example works. Even the recommendation of the international work organisation was that this advertising institute must somehow stand and be within the law itself. The working relationship to a certain time is very disputable, three years at a certain time. He's in Europe from one to three years. Why didn't we take one year? Here are possible major abuses by the employer, and above all, the worker keeps a long time in great uncertainty whether he will remain at the job, and can give him jobs that are below the quality of his expertise. And interns; a member who speaks of trainees is not well defined. The interns are supposed to be in the traineeship for a year. Why a year? Does this mean that even a six-month-old worker should have an internship for a year? I don't think that provision is good. Overtime work is 240 hours a year, four hours a day, and it's kind of a very bad solution. Annual vacations are shrinking, and they are now determined depending on their working hours and working conditions. What about the other criteria that we have, in the previous law, were present in the current law, such as professional cooking, disability, single parent, disabled workers, persons under the age of 55, persons under the age of 18. Even the schedule for the use of annual holidays is not well regulated because it says that the solution to the use of the annual vacation is delivered to the employee 15 days before the date set for the start of the use of the annual vacation. In 15 days, he'll make a deal with his wife if he wants to go on vacation. It's an extremely restrictive order. A paid leave; a reduction in the right of an employee to be paid leave to five days. So far, there have been seven plus seven employees. More events can happen to people in one calendar year. So, to make a marriage, to have a child, to have a flood, to give voluntary blood, and five days is small. So this provision is quite restrictive, too. It was about maternity leave, and I think a lot of words have been spent. It is clear that maternity leave has been reduced to three months and has not been defined for the past nine months. That's why it's written like that, because it's going to be less. The crucial thing about this question is to abolish the right to two years of leave for a third child. We all agreed that Natalie had to be bigger, that it was a big problem for us. We know that the economic situation is not the most important, no matter what you say. The important thing is that it's a good salary, so there'll be more kids. That's not the real reason. We had the most children, when it comes to the Serbian state, before the war when we were poor, etc. Protection of disabled workers; no protection of disabled workers, simply disabled workers can now be fired. In the previous law or current law of invalid work, he could not have lost his job. Now he'll be very easy to do without a job, unless he accepts what the employer says he needs to do. He'll also lose the right at the employment office for the cash compensation he's had so far, because then he'll be guilty of getting fired and won't have that right to make up for it. The disease was reduced to 65%, and so far it was 85%, and we've been discussing what's gross, what's net, and in the end, we've proven that it's more favourable to our net with 12 salaries than to your gross with five salaries. Other receipts, severances, retirement, solidarity aid, jubilee awards, assistance in the event of the death of a family member, it is no longer mandatory, at least when it comes to severances. It's said he can pay, and so far it's going to be paid or he's got to pay. So he can, but he won't be, at least he won't be with everyone. Termination of employment; workers stop working when they are 65 years old, unless the employer and employees agree differently. I'm asking you a simple question: Can a worker get a pension early? Please, who's going to get on a flight where a 65-year-old pilot or a bus driver on international traffic takes us 500 kilometers a day to cross? Or, the other side of the medal, when it comes to employees themselves, whether miners, builders, bakers should work 65 years. I think it's absurd. I think he's very rigorous. It is possible to quit in case of poor work result; I am an employer, it is possible to quit in case the employer finds that suddenly a worker, who has worked for 10 or 15 years, is unable to do these jobs. It's a totally subjective thing, a totally obvious thing. And the most rigorous thing about this is technical, technological and organisational changes. Organizational changes the employer can think of whenever he wants and the worker is out of a job. Please, and on this issue, the opposition of the representatives of the International Labour Organisation, who said - it is simply evident that the bill lacks a provision on the protection of workers from employers. The cancellation would have to be consistent with both the union and the labour inspection. But I'll talk about it a lot more when there's a debate in particular. And when we talk about extra employees, it's quite problematic, because simply for up to 10% of employees you can quit immediately without any consultation with the union. Those who work at the firm up to 50 workers have no protection whatsoever. And other technological surpluses or surpluses are decided by an employer without any criteria. Where are these criteria - professional preparation, achievement of norms, etc.? By severance, here we were talking about when we passed the Law in the field of employment and labor, that these severances were very low. Now we come to have two salaries in 10 years, five salaries in over 30 years, and there were 12 and there were five of our solutions. Please, if we want to follow the West, in France and Italy there are 24 salaries. In France, there's the Shore Institute, 80% of the salary until there's an adequate job, so if we want to look up to the West, let's look up to something that's good, not just for something that's bad. It's nothing funny, please. I'm not saying that this salary should now be 5,000 marks. Make it 300 marks, but make it 24 wages. Not to be two salaries or five salaries. In the end, however, this law was written by the International Monetary Fund. It's a great evil for all poor and small countries. Nothing good brings the International Monetary Fund to anyone. Ever since they took over all the bats in this world, since the '90s, there's been a growing gap between the rich and the poor. You see, in all of Europe, we are neither modern, or you are not modern, the whole of Europe rises against globalisation. Both in Paris and in Genoa and everywhere, there is a union working Europe, and Yugoslavia and Serbia are growing more and more in the claws of these people leading globalisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14385	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14386	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the most concrete law, given that its consequences are most clearly already at the beginning of this debate. What is certainly the first effect of the discussions so far is precisely the fact that those who promised Serbia a Swedish standard 10 years ago today are trying to convince us that the Berlin Wall is still there, that Europe is divided into the East and the West or that it is united on resistance to globalisation. When recommending a French recipe to Serbia, explain how to reach the French standard with a 25 billion debt. Marks, when you recommend a French standard to Serbia, explain how that standard is reached with a pension minus two billion. Marks, as they reach the standard with 40,000 bankruptcy companies, with 1.5 million jobless workers, as they reach that standard with a gross national product of $1000 per capita. That's our reality. She's not great, and so we don't need to cheat on this society. It's not true that some deal was reached with the unions that was then struck. We are the first government to speak to these unions equally. The first power that has respected 70% of their demands and the first authority that is ready to say - we will not give in to an unreal requirement that has an emotional cover, but that actually represents respect for our weaknesses. Whatever the cost, we will transform our country. We'll build a market economy. We will respect the laws of a healthy and normal life. Everything else is Utopia, where Serbia has lived for 60 years. Serbia must wake up from that dream, because this is the sea. That's where you left us, and don't be an obstacle to change, if you didn't have the courage to carry them out yourself, to change that. How many companies did you, as employers, sign collective agreements with workers? How many maternal supplements did you pay? How much did you give to the workers you left on the streets? We inherited thirty-month debts on the basis of a mother's allowance on January 25th when we assumed power in this country. Hundreds of thousands of people are on the streets. I agree that the subject of a mother's allowance and pension status has nothing to do with this law, because this law does not treat such a thing. We can talk here about a real problem we're trying to solve. If we want to build Serbia as a stable, European market democracy and an economy that respects the principles of reasonable work, then we must apply the same recipes they have applied successfully. Those recipes aren't easy. No cure is pleasant and none of us promises such a thing, but once and for all this law will separate work from work, success from failure, once and for all, this anachronic sign of equality that was put in 1945, when we are all locked in a single cake in which we formally had equal rights, but never and practically. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can only discuss this law in those segments and we are ready to talk only in those segments where it is improving. No parliamentary group, apart from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, has criticised our relationship to the collective agreement, as the collective contract is a relapse of the half-century communist system, which has not been practically applicable so far. You can also be criticised by an employer from a congregation pay phone, but I guarantee you there is not a single employer in this parliamentary group who will respect that irrational relationship that is seen here as a criticism of everything that is our legal initiative. How much sense does it make in a sentence - which the employer, please, will agree to hire every worker he receives in the privatisation process. Of course not. And none of us are looking for anything like that. But any employer in the privatisation process will keep the best and seek even better if they exist. The idea of the competition you're defending is actually an idea that destroyed the labour market in this country. What kind of work relationship is based on a legitimate, legitimate competition? Not one. How will a worker get his job? Just as it comes in modern Europe, in modern-market societies. As our people come to work in Germany, New Zealand, Australia, the United States, there will also be work in Belgrade, through the labour market, through personal contact, personal arguments and the strength of their defence diploma. Not a party book, not a union ID, like it used to be. If we were to go into the analysis of everything that was a public debate, we would see that this law had experienced nine audits and nine changes. It's not proof of our weakness, it's precisely our desire to come up with the most concrete and valid solutions. You will see that he is fully in line with the international conventions that we have signed as a state, that he respects all the principles of the International Labour Organisation, in each segment, from member to member. We spent hours with the unions analyzing this law. That's precedent. We're always ready for something like that. But in none of the members we proposed we found anything that would be a violation of labour rights. Affirmation of labour rights - yes, but through work. This law makes something like that possible. Do not expect DOS to give in under pressure, which in themselves are not too strong, but for us are warning. We take such a thing very seriously. First of all, as information that comes from society. This information says that there are forces in this society that do not want to change. These forces can be counted and, to remind you, in the elections won, in the streets, in the protests. This information tells us that there are also political forces in this society that hinder these changes. These political forces are also recognised in Parliament. There's a conflict. Those who are by all means right, by their political character right-wing, defend workers' rights without mentioning the employer. Those who are left-oriented advocate the idea of a working class that was created 10 years ago, unless we want Serbs to recommend the recipe of North Korea. But then you can make that clear. Now, tell me you think that in Serbia you should be standing up for generations who don't know what a chicken looks like, what an egg looks like, that hasn't tasted meat. That's the price of the policy you're offering us. This labour law in Serbia creates a harsh but only real business environment, the environment in which the best, the environment in which those who are on average and below average will have to suffer for their depth. However, it is the principle of every life and the principle of your party life. When you avoid such a thing, you are in fact ruling the weaknesses of Serbia, those who created the most underdeveloped country in Europe. DOS will change Serbia with or without you. We offer that, as serious parliamentary groups, you participate in the debate. We've accepted dozens of amendments, regardless of the motion. And you're the witnesses of it yourself. But we are not prepared to change the essence of this law, nor are we ready to stand down. Serbia will change, and this labour law will apply and this will certainly form the basis of a modern, transparent, civilized European society, which will know to separate black from white, work from labour. I fear that in such a division, those who refuse to be defeated will certainly be defeated in one way that we do not need as a parliamentary majority. We don't want any new conflicts. We don't need conflicts with flag unions, Bora, Kolubara. We need reason. That reason tells us that one Colubar cannot be successful when it employs 6,000 miners and 11,000 people who live off the work of those 6,000. That reason tells us that the flag cannot be successful when 60,000 people work in it, with a product that is in itself completely worthless because it is not chargeable unless we are talking about the social role of the state, which for us at this point no longer exists in such a way. Those who lose their jobs in the transition process will be subject to the government's social programmes, but will not be the subject of the employer's attention, because he is not obliged or obliged to do so. And you don't use something like that in your businesses. There are a lot of privates in this house. Have them come out and show the collective contracts they signed with their unions. Have them come out and show the working conditions under which these people work. Have them come out and say they're all reported. Don't ask us to agree to what you're not prepared to agree to. Respect the reality that is not great, but realize that this is the first step in the changes that are difficult, of which we do not run, which have a price, but certainly have their own perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-26-0.u14387	We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 145 MPs attend today's session. Please determine the quorum for work. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Stevan Lilic, Milutin Svetović, Milos Lukić, Višnja Nežić, Marko Jakšić, Zoran M. Nikolic, Dragor Hiber, Vasilija Pavić, Zaharija Trnavcevic, Petar Misic, Sredoje Mihajlov, Dragan Jočić, Sava Popadić, Bosko Ristić, Radosav Savitjevic, Nebojsa Leković, Torde Laslo, Pal Karolj and Biači Anton. Vojislav Dosen and Bratislav Grubaski will be late, they are prevented from attending Pal Shandor in the morning, and Dragan Vuksic in the afternoon. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE RAD LAW (continuing) We have the registered presidents of the parliamentary groups, that's what we agreed yesterday. I can't give you my word because there's no party mentioned, please don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
