ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u1	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am Zechariah Trnavcevic, the oldest MP of the people. On this basis, according to the Rules of Procedure, it was my duty to open the first constitutional session of the National Assembly and also to wish you successful work. Congratulations on the confidence you have received from Serbian citizens, with the hope that we will all, together in a lasting agreement, for the benefit of Serbia's citizens, justify that trust. I would like to, on my personal behalf, at the beginning of the work of this new National Assembly, express my desire for the National Assembly to be the legislative body of Serbia in a greater degree, which will be seen as discussing more than before the proposals, legislative initiatives by you, the MPs themselves, your committees and parliamentary groups, than it has been in the past, when the National Assembly has considered and adopted more legislative projects submitted by the Serbian Government. Here, that's what I wanted to tell you and wish to all of us that this deal, which will take some time until new elections, will be fruitful, for the benefit of all Serbian citizens, who rightly expect that after these 10 years or 50 years, however you will, they will experience a real and true rebirth and bloom. Thank you for your attention, and now we're going to go to work on the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that Mr Andrija Simic, president of the Republic Election Commission, is present at today's First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia next to you, MPs. I greet him in your name and mine. I remind you that, according to Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, until the election of the National Assembly president, is chaired by the oldest National MP, who is assisted by one of the youngest MPs with four electoral lists, who received the largest number of seats and the secretary of the National Assembly. Since I am the oldest National MP, I have the honour and obligation to chair this session until the election of the National Assembly President, which will be assisted by the youngest MPs: Dusan Proroković - the youngest member of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, Branko Ružić - the youngest MP from the Socialist Party of Serbia's electoral list - Slobodan Milosevic, Stevo Dragisic - the youngest national MP from the Serbian Radical Party - Dr Vojislav Seselj, Zoran Novaković - the youngest national MP from the electoral list of Serbian Unity Party - Professor Boris Pelevic, and Snezana Djukic - the secretary of the National Assembly. I call upon these young MPs to come here for the President's table. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 240 MPs attend today's session, in agreement with Article 80(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has conditions for work and decision-making. The minutes from this session will be handled by the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As usual, the session is stenographed and recorded on the tape recorder. On the basis of the obligations arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, allow me to propose for adoption of the next D's d's d'é l'Agre d'Ivoire d'Ivoire. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament, 2. Election of President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Appointment of Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 5. The selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do the MPs accept this agenda? Who's in, please raise your hand? (156) Who's against it? Nobody. Is someone holding back? No, I don't. ) I note that the proposed agenda has been adopted by a majority of the votes of the MPs present. Let me remind you of the provision of Article 27. A law on the election of MPs, which prescribes the way and procedure of confirming the mandate of newly elected MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to that article: - Confirming the mandate of MPs is based on the assurance of the election for the People's MP and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, - at the constitutional session of the National Assembly, a panel of three members is being educated to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Choice and the report of the Republic Election Commission. On the basis of the Commission's report, the person chairing the constitutional session of the National Assembly finds that the Republic Election Commission has filed a report on the elections carried out and which are assurances of the election for MPs in agreement with this report, confirming the mandate of the newly elected MPs. Starting from the obligation prescribed by that member of the law, a three-member commission should be educated at today's session of the National Assembly, in order to establish a consensus on the selection of the MP and the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out. Since the law has not regulated the question of how to propose and draw up this commission, allow me to, for more effective work, after the consultations I have carried out in preparation for this session, as chairman, propose the composition of the commission. I think it would be appropriate to propose two MPs from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica and one from the Socialist Party of Serbia's election list -- Slobodan Milosevic. In agreement with this and the consultations that have been carried out, I propose that MPs be elected at the Commission to determine the agreement of the Parliament's vote and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out: 1. Dusan Budishin, of the election list Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - for the president, 2. Bojan Pajtic, from the election list Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - for the member, 3. Zoran Nikolic, from the polling list of the Socialist Party of Serbia -- Slobodan Milosevic -- as a member. Any other suggestions? No, there isn't. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word and no proposal, I am concluding the search. I am putting to the vote a proposal for the Commission's education to establish a consensus on the selection of a MP and a report by the Republic of Election Commission. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? (75 Members of the People) Who's against it? Nobody. Is someone holding back? Nobody. I find that we are, in accordance with Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia adopted, this proposal on the education of the Commission to determine the consent of the assurance of elections for the People's MP and the report of the Republic Election Commission. Since we have educated the Commission to establish a consensus on the selection of the MP and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I would ask the members of the Commission to hold a session in the second floor hall immediately. I ask the MPs who have not, at any rate, given the assurances of the Republic Election Commission on the election of the People's Parliament, that these beliefs be handed over to me, and I will hand them over to the Commission. Before we suspend this part of the session, in order to allow the Commission to carry out its part of the work referred to in Article 27. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament, I ask the Members of Parliament to, in the course of a break, in accordance with Article 11. The Rules of Procedure, carrying out the necessary consultations and, therefore, in writing to me, table proposals for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, according to Article 11. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate for the National Assembly, may propose at least 30 MPs, that the MP may participate in the proposal of only one candidate, that the proposal should contain the name and name of the candidates, biography, party membership, the name of the rapporteur, the justification and consent of the candidates, in writing. Also, with the proposal for a presidential candidate, the proposings should, in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure set out one of their representatives at the Commission for the Printing and Sealing of Votes. At the same time, in order to make it more efficient to carry out all the work related to the establishment of the National Assembly, I pray that, in the meantime, the preparation and timely submission of proposals from candidates for vice-presidents and secretaries of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that parliamentary groups should be educated to prepare and submit proposals for the composition of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please contact the Secretary of the National Assembly in order to make the necessary arrangements. You heard what we have to do in the meantime. I propose that we now suspend the work of this part of the session until the Commission's report has been received to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Parliament's vote and the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out. I suggest we continue the work of today's session at 12.00 hours. [[Pause]] [[Resume session at 12.40 hours]] Dear People's MPs, we continue the session, with one announcement. We are late because the Commission has been working a little longer than expected to establish its agreement with the report of the Republic Election Commission. In the meantime, you have also received these congregation materials, so, along with that explanation, I invite you to participate with attention in the work of continuing this congregation. We continue to work on the first item of the agenda - confirming the mandate of the MPs. I remind you that, with the invitation of this session, you received a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 23 December 2000 and (additional elections) on 10 January 2001. Before the start of this part of the session, you were presented with a report by the Commission to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Elections and the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out. Does the Commission's rapporteur, Mr Budishin, want a word? He doesn't want to. ) pursuant to Article 27(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, On the basis of a report by the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out, and: - that all 250 assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out - confirming the mandate of all newly elected MPs. Dear People's MPs, allow me, continuing to chair this session, to wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. Since the mandate of all MPs has been confirmed, I find that, in accordance with Article 27(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, ceases the function of MPs from the previous call. Allow me to thank, on your behalf, the MPs who have suspended their mandate today. [[Applause]] We are moving to item two of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF SERBIA I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 11. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received one proposal for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Your proposal was made during the session. As you have seen, Dragan Marsicanin, a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia, was proposed to the National Assembly. I remind you, according to Article 12(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur may explain the proposal. Does the rapporteur want to explain the candidate's proposal for National Assembly President? He wants to. ) Mr. Dusan Budishin, MP of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u3	Dear MPs, on behalf of the Democratic opposition to Serbia, I propose to the National Assembly to elect Mr Dragan Marscanin from the Democratic Party of Serbia as president of the National Assembly of Serbia. Mr. Martian is a prominent politician of our party, has experience in similar affairs. He worked as the president of Vračar municipality, in his time, when the opposition was in power in the municipality. That is why we remain with this proposal and ask that the National Assembly choose him as president. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u4	You heard the rapporteur's name as candidate for National Assembly president. Before we begin, before I open a discussion on this proposal, I suggest we limit the duration of the discussion to five minutes. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's to keep the discussion going for five minutes? Most of it. Is that what you're counting for? No, I don't. There's no reason to waste time, most of it is. Is there anyone who wants to say something about this proposal? There is. ) Branislav Ivkovic, head of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u5	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs. I want us to have successful work in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, the very Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I just want to remind you that we have accepted the results of the election despite the fact that the elections are indeed conducted in very difficult conditions, in the conditions of the media link, the pressure on all parties outside DOS, and this pressure is currently current in this room, as far as I can see, the pressures that went towards establishing a kind of political terror, so we must say a kind of political racism, which led to the formation of citizens of the first and second order, with the notion of the citizens of the second order being mostly reserved for members of the Socialist Party of Serbia. In spite of this, we are very happy to accept the consultations organised by the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, by the candidate for the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we appreciate that these agreements have largely deviated from the previous situation in which we were in Serbia, and we have assessed that with one constructive approach all of us, in essence and in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, we can do one successful work in this assembly, primarily through legislative work, as the chairman pointed out in his opening statement, to make even better all conditions for the overall economic development of the country and to meet all of those social needs that arise and which are in the interest of the Socialist Party of Serbia programme. In that sense, what is most valuable is that in these agreements we have achieved respect for the principles that have lived here in parliamentaryism, in a multi-party system since 1990. These principles meant that the majority coalition or the majority party had the right to propose the president of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that all other parliamentary parties, according to their percentage participation, have the right to other seats in parliament, from the vice-presidents of the Republika Srpska Assembly, the president and vice-president of the committee and to the membership of the committee. In that sense, we have defined ourselves to vote in favour of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia's proposal and we will vote in favour of the candidate, Mr Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u6	Please introduce yourselves, I don't know all the names yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u7	I thank the representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, which, in fact, said what Serbia needs. The Socialist Party of Serbia, today, has given up its practice. She denied that Serbia could not see and gave up that Serbia could not hear. Thank you for supporting this proposal and for actually giving yourself a new quality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u8	Thank you. Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word of the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very nice here to attend the real fireworks of thanks between the SPS and the DOS. We love that fireworks on the side, but we will not participate in it, because the SRS will act as an opposition political party in this House's assembly, and the task is the opposition to vote against power. Whether we're burned or not, it'll be seen in the final outcome, and you're too young, so you don't know there's no end to the first day. I'm a young man. It takes a little time, waiting for it to pass. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this assembly is concerned, he has two options ahead of him. The first option is for the Assembly and all its bodies and bodies to be established according to the principle of proportionality. This requires the parliamentary practice of the civilized world, and this requires a parliamentary tradition. Of course, the congregation's majority can change that tradition and vote differently. It wouldn't be even the first historical case of the tyranny of the majority. We're going to adapt to both options, because it doesn't really tang us much. But so far, attempts to agree on a proportionate principle to establish the Republic Assembly, to establish its working bodies, have not been successful. I have to tell you this here because the representatives of the SRS took part on two occasions in an attempt to make a deal. Since these agreements were not successful, since the assembly majority was not ready to respect the principle of proportionality, the SRS will vote against DOS candidate for National Assembly president.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u10	Thank you. Is there another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first of all like to congratulate all the new Members on today's election verification for MPs on behalf of the Party of Serbian Unity. The Serbian Unity Party, together with all other representatives of parliamentary parties, participated on two occasions in the arrangements to form the Assembly, elect the president, vice-president, elect members of the parliamentary parties in the committees of the Serbian Parliament and elect the president and vice-president of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In some things we agreed, and this is a committee membership, and in some things we did not agree, and above all, on the number of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and above all, on the presidents and vice-presidents of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that we can also agree on this, given that we agreed at the last meeting that the Assembly should also be established in order to form three committees, the Legislative, the Committee on Justice and the Administrative Committee. I think that's what we've come to an agreement on, and I hope we stick to that deal. We did not agree that all DOS representatives should be chairmans of the committee and vice-presidents of those committees, because I believe that this is an appropriate time that we have long passed, and that was in the time of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia. Since the emergence of multi-party in Serbia, we have always had individual representatives of the opposition, as presidents or vice-presidents of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Under the deal, the Serbian Unity Party will support DOS candidate for Parliament's president, because we think it is unnecessary to vote against it, as the DOS has an absolute majority in this assembly. Therefore, the Serbian Unity Party supports the proposal to make Mr Dragan Marsican president of the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u12	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? There is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, ten years ago I entered this room and I saw a symbol standing on the wall. I protest, why after October 5th, we hold the Assembly under the same communist symbols again. Please, when we establish the Assembly to remove this symbol, to cover it with a cloak, because it must finally go to the waste of history. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u14	The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we as MPs seem to have some axiom in our conduct, that's respect for the legality. If there is a law that regulates the symbols of this state, as long as that law is in force, then it should be respected. Then when we pass the second law, then it should be done according to new solutions. At the same time, I want to remind you, that really every one of us in our midst, and that's what we need and how to see in the future, that this is exactly the kind of system of relationships we should respect, doing a lot of other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u16	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Dr. Vojislav Seselj, again, twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the past 10 years in this assembly, it has never been possible to achieve the congregation's majority in order to change state symbols. Here, the SRS is ready to vote right now for the proposal to remove the old communist symbols, because this is not Serbia's coat of arms under the Constitution. Serbia's constitution did not prescribe a coat of arms, we were trying to adopt Serbia's coat of arms in 1991, it failed, it was a referendum in 1992, it failed, because there was no political will. If this congregation wants to make a symbolic gesture of breaking up with the communist past today, we will warmly support and participate in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u18	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word from the MPs? No, I don't. ) Allow me to, according to Article 12(5). Rules of Procedure, I set out a list of candidates for the National Assembly President, where only one candidate is Dragan Marsican. I remind you, I'd like to move to Article 13. The Rules of Procedure, before the election of the National Assembly president - the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall vote by calling the MPs, as provided for in Article 14. Rules of Procedure. For the sake of more efficient work, I suggest that the election of the National Assembly president be made by a public vote. Before voting on this proposal, I would like to ask that the number of MPs present in the room be established. It has been established that 242 MPs attend this session of the National Assembly. I am voting on my proposal that the election of the president of the National Assembly be made by a public vote. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? Most of it. There's no reason to count, the vast majority voted yes. Do you agree that we don't count? They're in agreement. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the election of the National Assembly president should take place by public vote. Since the National Assembly has decided to hold the election of the National Assembly president by a public vote, we should hold the vote by calling the MPs, as provided for in Article 14. Rules of Procedure. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you it's article 121. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call, and that, according to that provision, the Secretary of the National Assembly should call upon the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name, that each appointed MP pronounces the word "yes", "no" or "sustained", that the chairman repeats the name and name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not wish to vote, and the Secretary of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence with his name and name on the list. I am voting on a proposal to elect Dragan Marscanin as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement. I note that the vote is done in such a way that every MP says the word "yes", "no" or "abstained". I ask the MPs to stand up and plead when they vote. (The secretary makes a call, and the messengers of the people declare themselves. (execution): Alexić Bojana -za, Andrić Vladimir - za, Andrić Dr Milena - za, Angelković Dušica - za, Angelković Zoran - za, Antonijević Vuko - za, Arnerić Neda - za, Arsić Veroljub- v, Arsić Joca - za, Adžić Dragoš - za, Bajić Rade - za, Bajčetić Predrag - za, Baralić Rajko - za, Beretić Anita - za, Budević Branko - za, Bišić Draga - za, Bajić Draga - za, Veljslav - za, Veljvržaža Mražanović - Božak Zrad, Živić Zović - za, Žalić Zović - Zažalić, Žalić Mošmir - Zalić - za, Žalić, Žalić - Zaživić, Žalić - Zaživić Borislav - za, Perić Hranislav - za, Petković Dr Dusan - za, Petković Milisav - za, Petrović Mr Radojko - za, Petrović Mirko - za, Petrović Petar - za, Petrović Srdjan - za, Pljužarović Vitomir - za, Pomoričko Branislav - za, Pop-Lazić Gordana - za, Popović Sava - za, Popović Aleksandar - za, Popović Dragaša - za, Popović Svrđa - za, Radoičić Momir - za, Radojković Milutin - za, Radović Dusan - za, Radojčević Miloš - za, Radović Smović - for, Radović Živić for Živić -, Radović for Živić, Radović Zvić - Za Za Za Za Za Za, Radož, Radović, Radović - Za Radović, Radović, Radoić, Radoić, Radoić, Radoić, Radoić, Radoić, Radoić, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radović, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Zak, Za, Zak, Za, Za, Za, Za, Zak, Zak, Za, Za, Zak, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Za, Thank you. Now we're going to count it. Dear Members of Parliament, allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 245 MPs who joined the vote, 222 MPs voted for the candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Marsicanin 22 MPs voted against it. [[buran applause]] One is restrained. Dear People's MPs, based on your vote, I find that candidate Dragan Marsican has received most of the votes of MPs who have joined the vote and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has elected Dragan Marsican as president of the National Assembly. Allow me to congratulate Mr Dragan Marsican in his election as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on your behalf. I ask the newly elected President of the National Assembly to take over the work of the National Assembly (The chairman of Dragan Marsican, the newly elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who has been assisted in his work: four of the youngest MPs with four electoral lists that received the largest number of seats and Snezana Djukic, secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. [[buran applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the democratic and legal state, economically prosperous and social, without corruption and crime, which today is polluted, safe for everyone in its territory, as it should be, with an electoral slogan, the promised will of Serbia. To reach it, it's not enough to make changes just fast. More than that, they should be valid and permanent. The regime's change has just begun with a shift of parties and individuals from power, and will end with the establishment of a democratic order and rule of law. Building the institutions of the democratic state and restoring citizens' confidence in the institution is a fundamental issue. Without it, without them, without democratic institutions, beyond them, there is no and cannot be valid and lasting changes. We are obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to make, in accordance with the powers of this assembly within the framework of jurisdiction, that this foundation, and the foundation of democratic institutions, is a fundamentally reorganised state, so that this foundation is well established and that the character of systemic change is such that this promised will of Serbia and leads. We are obliged to restore dignity to the National Assembly and to continue, in fact, the process of building parliamentary democracy in Serbia after decades of suspension. Only if we succeed, and I believe that we will, today on which we establish the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the first term after the break of the authoritarian regime will a truly significant day. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, thank you for the trust you've shown me and the honor you've given me with this trust. Thank you. I suggest that before we continue our work, we take a break of one hour. [[Applause]] We'll set up the next agenda and continue work in 20 minutes to 15 hours. [[Pause.]] [[Resume session at 15.55 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue our work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – I would like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 18, the Vice-President of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received three proposals for candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly. You have been served with proposals from candidates for vice presidents of the National Assembly. As you have seen, MPs are proposed for the vice presidents of the National Assembly: 1. Gordana Komic, member of the Democratic Party, 2. Natasa Micic, a member of the Civil League of Serbia, 3. Rodoljub Sabic, member of Social Democracy, 4. Ljubisa Maravić, member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, 5. Dragan Markovic Palma, a member of the Serbian Unity Party. Since, in accordance with Article 19(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur, has the right to explain the proposal, asking if the rapporteurs want to explain candidates' proposals for vice-presidents of the National Assembly? - They want to. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u22	Mr. President, the working presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, for the Democratic opposition to Serbia is a binding electoral will of citizens shown in the 23 December elections. To the extent that we are counting on the right arising from the election result of our electoral list, we will respect the rights of all other participants of this electoral process and of all other parliamentary forces. We have tried to reach an agreement with representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Party of Serbian Unity, in order to respect, to the extent possible, the principle defined by this parliament's work over the past 10 years. Unfortunately, all agreements have been disputed during today's meeting with representatives of these parties, so we are urgently forced to honour that part of the agreement that defines both the rights and obligations of the members of parliament, which respect our principles. Accordingly, we propose three vice-presidents of the Republic's parliament and support the candidateship of the Socialist Party of Serbia for the post. This support is not due to our agreement with the Socialist Party's programme principles, but to respect the electoral will of citizens who have shown support for the election list. We are ready to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic's Parliament and thus open up the possibility of election and the fifth vice president. Our intention is that if an agreement is reached with the Serbian Radical Party, it delegates its representative to the post. Otherwise, we will leave this place vacant and thus demonstrate our willingness to respect democratic principles, but also our intention to insist with rights and obligations arising from relations defined through our mutual contacts. So we will not, as it was during today's session, insist on respecting the principles of civilised society, in a way that does not oblige others to do so. All those who have received DOS support today are also willing to respect the rights and obligations arising out of this support. We therefore expect that the Republic Parliament will support the DOS decision and the proposal for vice-presidents, which is in front of you. At the same time, on behalf of the DOS, I am showing my willingness to support the Socialist Party of Serbia's proposal and that, if an agreement is reached with the Serbian Radical Party, through the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we will support their candidate for vice-president of the Republic of Parliament tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u23	Thank you. Any of the other reporters come forward for a word? Mr. Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, since the introduction of a multi-party system into the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, means, for 10 years, the principle that guarantees that all parliamentary parties have the right to participate in the formation of the governing structures, both the vice president and the chairman and deputy board in the assembly bodies. In that sense, we have held consultations and shown willingness, all parliamentary parties, that these principles are respected. In line with these principles, we have proposed, and I am personally pleased that, on behalf of the SPS MP club, for the post of vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose to Mr Ljubis Maravić, the man who was born in Kosovo Mitrovica, where he lives today with his family and with his parents, the man who managed to survive and survive the difficult moments of Shiptar terrorism and separatism, the difficult moments of NATO aggression. I am convinced that the election of Mr Ljubisa Maravic as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be a sign to all Kosovo and Metohija citizens in this parliament's determination to defend Serbia's and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u25	Are any of the promoters answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u26	Dear Mr. President, allow me, first of all, to congratulate you on the election of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party, to wish you many successes in working in these very difficult times, in the hope that you will do your job in accordance with the principles of parliamentaryism. I would also like to suggest that one of the next sessions of the National Assembly be held in Pristina, and the next one be held in Bujanovac. I hope you will find it very easy to reach an agreement with the International Community, namely UNMIK and KFOR, to hold a session of the National Assembly in Pristina, which would also indicate to the International Community and Serbs who remained in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs who had to avoid Kosovo and Metohija, that this is an integral part of Serbia and Yugoslavia, as prescribed by Security Council Resolution 1244. As for the proposal for vice-president of the National Assembly, the Serbian Unity Party submitted a proposal in the regular procedure for the vice-president to be part of the Serb Unity Party. It's about Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma. Dragan Markovic Palma was born in 1960 in the village of Končarevo near Jagodina, where he lives today. For 21 years, he has been engaged in private entrepreneurship and has been named the best entrepreneur, i.e. the manager of Serbia and Yugoslavia, 1994 and 1995 on two occasions. Otherwise, he is also known as director and owner of Palma Plus TV and is vice president of the "Yugoslav kik-boxing alliance". He also owns the president of two sports clubs. He's married, he's got two kids. I think all these facts qualify him to be one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have not come across the understanding of our colleagues from DOS and other parliamentary parties, that our representative is also vice-president of the National Assembly, since only four parties, or coalitions, are represented in the Serbian parliament. We felt that we too had the right to have a vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today, in the ordinary procedure, I also submitted a proposal to amend Article 17. The Rules of Procedure, which provides for the National Assembly to have four vice presidents. We suggested that the National Assembly had six vice-presidents, although there were speeches at meetings that DOS would also come out with a proposal that the National Assembly had five vice-presidents of the National Assembly. I don't know what happened to our proposal. I ask Mr. President to include this proposal in the agenda, that is, to forward it to the MPs. We're staying on our proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u27	Since we've received proposals from candidates for vice presidents of the National Assembly and heard the argument, I'm opening a search on these proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a little surprised by Mr. Jovanovic's beating, president of the DOS Parliament Club. Radicals didn't ask for anything, and the radicals didn't ask for anything. Serbian radicals were ready to agree on the proportional distribution of seats in all assembly working bodies and functions of the Assembly and the assembly bodies. Since this agreement has not been reached, we simply do not participate in the proposal either, nor will we vote for those bodies that have already been proposed, or for those functions for which the candidates have already been highlighted. Nothing else. For Serbian radicals, no new functions should be invented, neither are we looking for it, nor are we ready to accept that someone is now introducing the fifth vice-presidential post in order to be a Serbian radical in that place. It's humiliating to us, and it doesn't come to our mind. Simply, then, do not count on our suggestions or any of our insistence. There were earlier problems, in these 10 years, renewed Serbian parliamentaryism, but in the past term there were no such problems, as on the first day all parliamentary groups concluded an agreement between both the ruling and opposition parties and the same day the selection of all working bodies and all assembly officials was carried out. This piece, first of all, is not on principle basis, it is not serious and it is not dignified for us, at least as far as the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group is concerned. If you have decided so, you have the majority enough to vote, vote, but don't count on us anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u29	Anybody else answer for a word? If no one calls again, I'll close the search. Allow that, pursuant to Article 19(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, in the alphabetical order of the last name, I shall establish a list of candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. According to the proposal, I am setting out the next list of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Markovic - Palma, Natasa Micic, Gordana Komic, Rodoljub Sabic. I remind you that, according to Article 20. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the election of the Vice-Presidents, shall decide whether to vote in secret or in public, by making a public vote known by the MPs to each candidate individually, by raising their hands or by calling. I suggest that the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly be made by a public vote - a call. Let me tell you what this is about. We have more candidates than the number chosen. One MP can only vote for as many candidates as proposed or less. In public voting by hand, it is not possible to determine whether this is respected, or practically the only way to hold a public vote is in this case, a public vote - by calling. Any other suggestions? No, I don't. ) If there are no other proposals, before voting on this proposal, please determine how many MPs attend the session. I find that the sittings are attended by 227 MPs. I would like to put the motion to vote so that the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly is made by a public vote - by a call. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand. 156 MPs voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly by majority (156 MPs) has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly is made by a public vote - a call. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly is made by a public vote - by a call, I remind you that the public vote, in this way, according to Article 20(2). The Rules of Procedure shall make a statement to the Members of Parliament for each candidate individually. In line with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, it can be voted most on by as many candidates as the vice president is elected and that is between candidates whose names are listed on the candidate list. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you it's article 121. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure for the implementation of the public vote, by a call and that, in accordance with that provision, the Secretary of the National Assembly should call on the Members of Parliament in the alphabetical order of the last name. People's MPs who approach the vote say the full name and last name of the candidate they vote for. The president reiterates the name and name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines whether he is absent or not. The Secretary of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP, or his absence, with his name and last name on the list. I am voting on the proposal to elect for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: Ljubisa Maravic, Dragan Markovic - Palma, Natasa Micic, Gordana Komic, Rodoljub Sabic. Let's approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I'm asking the Secretary of the National Assembly to make an up-and-coming call in the alphabetical order of the last name. We have to be a little patient, please, a little quiet, so we can hear the MPs vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u30	Aleksic Bojana (I vote for DOS candidates Gordana Komic, Natasa Micic, Rodoljub Sabic and SPS candidate Ljubisa Maravic),
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u31	Aleksić Bojana (for Gordana Komić, Natasa Mićić, Rodoljub Šabić and SPS candidate Ljubiš Maravić), Andrić Vladimir (Ljubiša Marić, Nataša Mić, Gordana Komić, Rodoljub Šabić), Andrić Dr Mila (Rodoljubša Šabić, Nataša Mić, Dragan Marković), Angelić Dušić (Gordana Komić, Rodaća Šamić, Rodović Šaća Šaća Žaća Žaća Žaća Žažaća Žaća Žaća Žažaža Žažažažać (disten), Nata Žaža Žažažažažaža Ža Žaća Ža Ža Žažaža Ža Žažić) and Žažić (Odić Šać). Šabić), Panajotović Tomislav (Ljubisa Maravić, Natasa Mićić, Gordana Komić and Rodoljub Šabić), Pantelić Dragan (Dragan Marković), Patić Predrag (Ljubisa Maravic, Natasa Mićić, Gordana Komić and Rodoljub Šabić), Pelevic Prof. Borislav (exist), Perić Hranislav (Ljubiša Marić, Natača Mićić, Gordjana Komić, Gordana Komić and Rodović Šabić), Petković Mić (Ljubić Marić, Natasa Mić, Gordjana Komić and Rodoljubić Šabić), Petića Komić, Nataša Mić and Ljubiša Marić), Petić Mr Radojko (Ljubića Marović, Gordavić and Rodović Šabić), Petrović Marko (Natas Mić, Rodović Šaća Šaić), Petrović Mr Mirko (Ljubić) and Mra Žažaža Mić (Savić), Gordavić Mić (Samić Šaić, Gordavić) and Rodjana Ša Šać (Samić Šać Šaić), Petrović Šaić Šaić (Popić), Petrović Šaić Šaić (Popić, Zlatić), Petrov, Petrovać Šać Šaić and Rodić), Petrov (Saić Šaić), Petrovaić (Saić), Petrovaić (Dradić, Petrovaić) and Rodić) and Rodić), Petrov, Petrov, Petrov (Sa Šaić (Dradić) and Rodić) and Rodić). I ask the MPs, do they agree that the MPs who were out of the hall, and now they have come, are recorded as absent, that they may vote? Who's for them to vote, please raise your hand. I figure the big majority's for it. Joksimović Aleksandra (Mić, Komic, Šabić and Maravic), Jovanovic Cedomir (Comic, Mićić, Šabić and Maravic), Markovic Mihajlo (Mić, Komic, Šabić and Maravic). After we've made the vote, to elect the vice president of the National Assembly by calling, I'll conclude the vote. Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 212 MPs who joined the vote, the proposed candidates received: LJUBŠA MARAVIĆ 143 votes; DRAGAN MARKOVIĆ PALMA 17 votes; NATASA MIĆić 201 votes; GORDANA COMIĆ 202 votes; RODOLJUB SABić 197 votes. As candidates -- Gordana Comic, Natasa Micic, Rodoljub Sabic and Ljubisa Maravic -- received most of the votes of MPs who joined the vote, I realize they were elected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] On my behalf, and allow me, and on your behalf, to all candidates, to all elected vice presidents, I congratulate you on your choice. I ask them to take their seats. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - THE NAME OF THE SECRETARY OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA Dear People's MPs, let me remind you that, Article 25 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided for the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly, shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure and in the manner foreseen for the election of the President of the National Assembly, i.e. the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the election of the President of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly to the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides for a candidate for the National Assembly secretary to propose at least 20 MPs, received one proposal from the National Assembly secretary. Your proposal was made during the session. As you have seen, Georgia Maric, who was proposed by 134 MPs, was the secretary of the National Assembly. I remind you, according to Article 12(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur may explain the proposal. Does the rapporteur, Dusan Budishin, want to explain the candidate's proposal for Secretary of the National Assembly? He doesn't want to. ) Since we have received a proposal from the National Assembly secretary, I am opening a search on this proposal. Do any of the MPs want a word? He doesn't want to. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm closing the search. Allow me to, according to Article 12(5). Rules of Procedure, I set out a list of candidates for the National Assembly's secretary, where one candidate is, and that -- Georgija Maric. I remind you that, according to Article 13. The Rules of Procedure before joining the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by the call of MPs (Article 14). Rules of Procedure. I suggest that the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly be made by a public vote - a call. Is there any other proposal on how to vote? No, there isn't. ) Before voting on my proposal, I ask that the number of MPs present in the hall be established. I find that the sittings are attended by 213 MPs. I would like to put the motion to vote so that the appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly is made by a public vote - by a call. Who's up for this proposal? Most of it. ( ) Since the obvious majority of us do not feel that there is any need for any further statement. I find that the National Assembly decided, by majority, to appoint the Secretary of the National Assembly to be held by a public vote, by a call. Since the National Assembly has decided to appoint the Secretary of the National Assembly by a public vote, we should hold the vote by calling the MPs (Article 14). Rules of Procedure. Before we go to the polls, I remind you that it's article 121. The Rules of Procedure, an orderly procedure to conduct a public vote - by calling, and since we voted in this way today, I don't think there's any need for me to introduce you again to the way you vote. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u32	Alexic Bojana - za, Andrić Vladimir - absent, Andrić Dr Milena - za, Angelković Dušica - absent, Angelković Zoran - za, Antonijević Vuko - absent, Arnerić Neda - za, Arsić Veroljub - v, Arsić Joca - za, Adžić Slobodan - za, Bajić Dragoš - za, Bajić Rade - za, Bajčetić Mr Nenadrag - za, Baralić Rajko - za, Beretić Anita - za, Budesić Branko - za, Budišin Dušan - za, Bišić Draga - za, Vošanović - against, Vljenović - Božar Zrak, Božar Zrak - Zrak, Žalić Zović - Zažalić, Žalić - Zaljavić - for, Budišin Dusan Dušan - za, Budiš - za, Bišić - za, Bištić - za, Všatić Drag - za, Vjatić Drag - za, Vjatić - za, Voš - Za, Vštić, Vštić - Za, Voš - Za, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Vštić, Voš, Voš, Voš, Zakić, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Zakić, Voš, Voš, Voš, Zakić, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Voš, Zakić, Zakić, Zakić, Zakić, Voš, Zakić, Zakić, Zakić, Zakić, V.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u33	Since we've cast a vote for the Secretary of Parliament by calling, I'm closing the vote. Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 222 MPs who joined the vote, 201 MPs voted for a candidate for the secretary of the National Assembly of Serbia, Georgi Maric. There were no abstentions against the 21st People's MPs. Dear People's MPs, on the basis of your vote, I find that Georgia Maric's candidate has received most of the votes of MPs who have joined the vote and that the National Assembly for National Assembly Secretary has appointed Georgi Maric Let me congratulate Mr. Maric and ask the newly appointed secretary of the National Assembly to take office. [[Applause]] Before we continue our work, I would like to thank, on behalf of all those who participated in the preparation of this session, Mrs. Snezana Djukić, who has really prepared this session with great professional and quality. I thank her most warmly for that. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF THE WORK BODY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled for the National Assembly to educate the committees. [[Applause]] The National Assembly has 23 permanent committees, and the number of members of those committees has been established by the Rules of Procedure. Members of the Committee shall propose a proportion of the number of MPs they have in the National Assembly (Articles 27, 45, 46 and 48). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you have been given a proposal for a list of members of the Committee, which is drawn up on the basis of individual proposals from parliamentary groups, which are educated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have been presented with proposals for amendments to the list for the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee, submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group. You have been presented with a proposal to add a list of members of the National Assembly Committee, submitted by MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Serbian Unity Party's Parliamentary Group. I am opening a search on the proposal for a list of members of the National Assembly Committee, with amendments submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, the president of the DOS Parliamentary Group and a proposal to supplement the list proposal submitted by MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group. Who wants a word? He has the word Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will respect the principle we respected in the election of the Vice-President of the Republic of Parliament. So each party in the Republic of Serbia will be represented in parliament's working bodies as a percentage of the election results it has won in this house. There are certain agreements that have been violated here today by the Serbian Radical Party. Nevertheless, we will vote in accordance with the obligations we have made. In three cases, we have foreseen a selection of MPs, with a number of 16 members on boards - the Committee on Security, the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Management - where the number of members will be 17 and so is the open space. We'll discuss this at tomorrow's session when the amendments to the Rules of Procedure are discussed. I ask you to respect the position of the Democratic opposition to Serbia, to support it and vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u35	Anybody else answer for a word? There is a word from MP Zivko Selakovic, the MP club of the Serbian Unity Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u36	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I remain in everything according to the proposal of the Serbian Unity Party and that our proposal also lists our members for those committees under the Rules of Procedure, as provided for there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-22-0.u37	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. If no one ever answers for a word again, we move on to a decision. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, according to Article 28. The Rules of Procedure, the proposed list for the selection of board members, shall be decided in general, by public vote, and that the committees have been elected if the majority of the members present have voted in favour of the list. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a list of members of the National Assembly's committee, with amendments submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, the president of the DOS Parliamentary Group and a proposal to supplement the proposal for a list submitted by MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? Most of it. Is anyone against it? Minority. I find that the large majority of the National Assembly has chosen the committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This was the last item of the agenda. Before we complete our work on all points of the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I received a request from 134 MPs of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia for the emergency maintenance of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, with the agenda contained in that request. Respecting the reasons contained in the request, I convened a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 for tomorrow - Tuesday, January 23rd 2001, in this hall, starting at 13.00 hours. The call for this session with a request for an appointment of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this year and the motions for acts from the agenda of the session were presented to you during the session. I ask all MPs to attend tomorrow's session of the First Extraordinary National Assembly in 2001. I would like to inform you that the first session of the following committees will be held immediately after the end of this session: the Committee on Justice and Administration, in the second floor hall, the Legislative Committee on the Ground floor and the Administrative Committee on the Fourth Floor. I ask the Members of Parliament, members of those committees, to attend the meetings of those committees. I would like to inform you that you can assume the legitimacy of the Members of Parliament in the building of the Assembly on the ground floor, room 10, at the earliest two hours after the session is completed. I hereby conclude the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
