ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment that, in front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I submitted to Article 117. The bill is more technical than essential, i.e. for more precise formulations, as shown by the explanation. However, this amendment is important because it is related to Article 116, which was talked about a long time ago and was also addressed by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, and is related to the opinion of the union in the programme for those who will be out of work, as you stated in Article 103, "due to technological, economic or organisational changes, which will affect the need to stop doing a certain job. There was a lot of talk about it, and that's what our public interests most, so the most employees in Serbia's economy -- what are the number of employees who will be jobless for these reasons? However, these reasons are not in themselves enough for you to say to hundreds of thousands of workers that it has to be because it is our reform procedure, so they dictate to us from abroad, these are messages from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank; because if you tell it to workers in the machine and metal complex, those who have been employed and are now no longer in the flag Group and their cooperatives, it means nothing to them if this government is not, and apparently it is not smart, capable and organized to rely on our own resources, on our own potentials, but is waiting for some outside assistance that, nor is it in any significant amount, nor will it come. That is why it is certainly important for representative unions to participate in all this, I mean the planning of these programmes. But just planning something that you're going to promise those who stay out of work isn't enough. Because if you told these in Kragujevac when you fired, and that's not a small number, it's 15,000 -- we're going to decompose the flag group; although it's known that in certain parts of it, those who live and work in that city, who know what the situation in the car factory is, they know that only in one part, say in machines and tools, as well as in the blacksmithy (the word decomposition itself is a new word, with what you've introduced as transparent and everything else in that rhetoric in the past 14 months); it means nothing to them if nothing is essentially and does not happen. Also, nothing means that you and the representative union agree one thing, and then change your plans, as it happened on the hot August night of this year, in Kragujevac, to put pressure on three, four, five in the morning, so that their opinions change, that their representatives come into the government building of the Republic of Serbia and under such pressures, not voluntarily, sign some kind of program. It is truly inappropriate that some MPs, who are late to work today, rather than what I'm saying, which is the whole truth, just because it doesn't suit them, just because it's facts that, I know, a lot of you hurt. But, ladies and gentlemen of the DOS, it will hurt you a lot more, especially those who resent those small, insignificant political groups, with less than 1% of voters in the electoral body in Serbia; it will cost them the most, because this is their first and last chance to stay in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia -- perhaps touristic or otherwise some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15460	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 73, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted by 11, a total of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 118, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Thank you. The word wants a representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, it's Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a representative of the parliamentary group because it is against the law and against the constitutional right of Dr Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic to speak, but when the rights come, true democratic authority, such acts will have to be abolished and we will have to treat the opposition differently. As for the proposal for this amendment, I think this is one of the last amendments in which we have the opportunity to accept the importance of the general act. It's not a technical editorial, it's a fundamental amendment, and if someone who doesn't read read carefully, it's only a legal-technical order by replacing the word "or" with the ally "i" -- this is a program of resolving extra employees within the department that speaks about surplus employees, where the government says in its proposal, "the program of resolving extra employees contains a proposal of measure and that, in particular, the transfer to other jobs, the work of another employer, retraining or prequalification, shortened working time and other rights in accordance with the law, general act or contract of work". I will now try to double-analyze this member and point out why it would be important to accept amendments by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group and MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. We see here, and this is related to Article 105, which yesterday, unfortunately, has not been deleted from the bill and has not been changed, or the key amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs and some other parliamentary groups have not been accepted, that it is clear how the employer can treat the worker. The moment he sees him as a surplus, he can tell him he'll go to another job; he'll go to another employer; he'll go to requalification or qualification. If the employee does not want to accept this, unless it meets his professional qualifications, he will be fired. We move on, it is said again that it will be in accordance with the law, the general act or the contract of work. In accordance with what law? In accordance with this law? Any special laws? What is this referring norm, to which law does this norm refer? I don't know in what law could someone find a more favourable standard for employees? It's called "a general act or a contract of work". Therefore, there is no general act unless agreement is reached between the employee and the employer. The employee doesn't want to get along with something the employer imposes - we don't have that general act anymore, no unions, no employees, no rights of any kind, we just have a work contract. That's what an employer can impose, ordinary, so-called. access type contracts and there is no possibility of changing such a thing. It is therefore important to accept this amendment, which a number of amendments to the draft law, which says it has been regulated by a general act and a contract of work, where it imposes an obligation on the employer to have a general act and then to respect that act. That's what we can do in the interests of the workers. I don't think that would be bad. I think it would be a good idea if, when the workers came here after 12 hours, and I don't think the police would stop them, we'd go out, say hello to the workers to tell us what they think about all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15462	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15463	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in extensive debates, which were held in the past few days, and especially in the Assembly committees, we have made it clear why this kind of initiative is unacceptable. I don't think it makes any sense to repeat that to those who don't want to hear that. As for the workers, we will be at our jobs, and those who come will be received politely, as was the case the previous time. I think it would be a good idea for representatives of all opposition parliamentary groups to participate in that conversation, which unfortunately was not the case in October the month we spoke with the union presidents. There may also be a problematic interpretation of the results of these conversations. We'll be happy to meet union representatives if they ask for it. It would be very good to finally see those who, by their management of these societies, have left us with the legacy of 40,000 companies in bankruptcy, one million and a half people on forced vacations, that is, without a job and, of course, hundreds of thousands of those problems that people face daily in their lives. I think it would be a good idea for the flag to finally appear in front of the Kraguje workers, since they had the courage to do so last year when they were touched by the same workers from the Solidarity Fund. So if, then, as an opposition, we have pointed out irregularities made from the position of government, it would be very good for today's opposition, following its examples, to take a critical look at what we are doing. We're trying to solve problems, but not in the way our predecessors used -- by producing new ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15464	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15465	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in this country, because they don't know what to do, how to explain to the people why they live hard, bad, the representatives of the government and their helpers in the media sphere are the only things they do, saying they're guilty of some others, how they left you a lot of bad, so they're very good and very successful, well, they can't get everything to fix, they can't get everything they've done before, I don't know what kind of way they've managed to destroy. As for Mr Jovanovic and the talks with representatives of the parliamentary groups, representatives of the unions, we did not want to participate in the talks with other representatives of the parliamentary groups, nor to go to Dragan Marsican, the then-president of the National Assembly, but we spoke with the unions. And you have this in all the information received by all the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia under the heading Activities in relation to the adoption of the labour law, as of 20 November 2001. That union of Serbia, on the 23rd page, says - Information on talks with representatives of the SRS parliamentary group; representatives of the union received SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj and a few more of us; they even say they are satisfied with talks with SRS representatives. What we have agreed with union representatives, we do not slave to anyone, but what we have agreed, we respect and do not give up on these agreements, as well as on everything else. As for zastava workers and Kragujevac, in three months, the unscrupulous destruction of the Kragujevac flag, produced 1,830 cars, which is a new government, when everything was built, built, when there are no sanctions, when there is no war, is not able to produce in a year. When I say new, this is, of course, conditionally speaking, many were DOS ministers in 1992 and those who believe they were never in power and were in Milan Panic's government. No, you've been in power for a year and three months, as little as we as a minority partner, at a time right before the war, at a time of rebuilding the country, so take over the role of whoever's responsible for the country's situation. And not every time someone defends it, it's their earlier fault. Remember, this is the principle of the former Communist Party of Yugoslavia from 1945 and 1946; and they, the only thing they knew to speak, that is - it's Milan Stojadinović, guilty of the king, guilty of everyone else before that, now a new society is about to start, now they're going to start new working victories, now they're going to start wonders of some kind. I think this says enough in which way the regime is only able to fit and no different at all. It seems to me that the people and citizens of Serbia will understand well who he is and how he worked in his interest, and the people are the Supreme Judge for both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15466	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 52, against 144 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Novakovic to article 119. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15467	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is an amendment to Article 119, which is, in fact, the consequence of what this law first adopts, in my opinion, unwarrantedly, and especially for those who have over 20 and 30 years of employment. Therefore, this amendment concerns the regulation of compensation for those whose employment relationship is terminated for the reasons set out in Article 103(8). In the amendment, I ask that, in the event of cancellation from Article 103 paragraph 1 of point 8 of this Act, at least half of the monthly earnings shall be paid for each year of the internship. I consider this a far fairer solution, especially for those who don't see themselves in the restructuring of companies, in privatisation, in new training and courses, to keep a job at a firm where they spent 20, 30 years of internships. In my explanation, I have stated that the proposed amount of cash compensation paid to an employee who ceases working relationship as a technological surplus is very low, which is why this amendment proposed to increase it in line with the IOR's suggestion given on this issue. In response, the government said, "The above-mentioned amendment is not accepted, for the reason that the legislation lays down the severance as a minimum law, as appropriate to the opportunities of the Republic of Serbia's economy. If the law established a higher amount of severance, some employers would not be able to pay it." I think it's cynical in response, given that we expect, if not this year, that in the following year, apparently with transition movements and privatisation, opportunities for larger severances will be created. How to explain to workers who work 25, 30, 35 years to leave the firm where they invested everything in their lives and that they get two and a half average earnings for it. I would quote from this famous correspondence from Jean Pierre to the so-called Arthur Bronstein, where it is said: "We see that the amount of severance is proposed in the bill, in some cases, relatively low. It is more common to practice in parallel labour law to account for severance in a two-week and one-month salary for each year, although some countries leave the amount of the severance to be determined by a collective contract which is binding on the employer." It has been stated that this issue requires further discussion. After this warning by the IOR, nothing has changed, and I have compared in detail the member 124 then and this article 119. I ask the Minister that if he can, for the sake of the general public and all of us explain why it remained that way. (President: Time. ) I would also like to ask fellow Members of the People to mention the name Novakovic, the name, as well as the name, in order to understand, in their further presentations and performances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15468	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, against 128, the abstentions were not voted 12, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to article 119. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15469	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 119 prescribes the amount of severance the worker receives from the employer in the event of the circumstances set out in Article 103, paragraph 1, point 8, i.e. due to technological, economic or organisational changes. What does that really mean? Economic change, we know what they are. The employer falls into a difficult economic situation, becomes invulnerable and is forced to fire a certain number of workers. Or, organizational change, it goes to some new process of production or technological change, introduces new technology, and has inadequate workforce. He then fires workers and is obliged, according to the bill, to pay the worker, if he worked for up to 10 years twice the amount of earnings, if he worked from 10 to 20 years three times the amount of earnings and if he worked 20 to 30 years at the height of the quadruple amount and over 30 years at the highest of the five-fold amount of earnings. SRS MPs are asking the government to increase that severance by increasing workers working up to 10 years that amount would increase and make triple the amount of earnings, if they worked from 10 to 20 years - a hundredth of the amount of earnings, if they worked from 20 to 30 years - nine times the amount of earnings, and over 30 years - twelve hundredths of earnings. Frankly, I doubt the employer will come into this situation, given Article 105, by which the employer can cancel the employment contract unless the worker accepts the contract under changed circumstances. All these changed circumstances, whether technological changes, economic or organisational changes. In addition, he is a member of discussion who goes behind this article, which is Article 120, which prescribes what if the employer does not have the means to pay even what the Law prescribes as a minimum. This article says that funds provided under the law or other act will be used for these purposes. I don't know what other act that would be, and when it comes to the law, I guess it's the Employment Act, or maybe the minister can tell us what law he's referring to. In any case, you can get into a situation and the employer doesn't even have to pay for this minimum, because he simply doesn't have the funds. Then the worker only gets that allowance from the unemployment Fund. That's what you'd get anyway. I am not satisfied, of course, with the argument, although frankly, by the government, for not accepting this amendment. The government says the amendment cannot be accepted for the reason that the severance is established as a minimum law, in line with the opportunities of the Republic of Serbia's economy. The opportunities of the Republic of Serbia's economy are such that it can't even pay the dinars, it can't even pay the workers. Therefore, most employers will be in a position not to pay for what the law requires. If the law established a higher amount of severance, some employers would not be able to pay it, the government said. Employers who have opportunities and resources can also establish a larger amount of severance, which of course will not make them a single labour contract or a general contract that the employer himself makes. I therefore appeal to the Government to protect the interests of workers who, in any event, will be in a position to lose their jobs, yes, because of a more humane relationship with workers, at least this one-time payout will be adequate for the years that workers have spent working.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15470	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. Here you go. Mr. Vukic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we ask Minister Milovanovic to accept this amendment, because we will at least facilitate the position of the employee, the position of the worker who is being fired, because it is simple. So, as the people understand it and call it the real name. The moment he is fired, according to a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia, he will receive an allowance at the level of the general act or contract of employment, and if he spent up to 10 years in a working relationship, at least at the level of double the amount of earnings. We're looking at least at the height of the triple profit. This is not a major increase compared to the proposed legislative solution. Something better than what you predicted in the government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia should accept this, especially when you have in mind the reasoning of the Serbian government, which says it cannot accept this because of the difficult situation in the economy of the Republic. That's right, we're talking about it, our mouths are drying out of it, and the government's always saying that the situation is great, that it's going to be much better, that we're going to live in prosperity, that we're going to have an extraordinary period. I remind you again, Mr. Minister, that you said from this pay phone that it was a law for the future. If we're going to have this difficult situation in the economy in the future, then that's how we're going to tell citizens, not citizens to talk every six months -- wait, wait a little longer, but it's not much better, it's going to be much better, we're getting money from abroad, here, it's very nice for you and you don't know, and only what you're going to be, it's a miracle. But then we need to tell the citizens what the real situation is, what the real situation is. I suppose that's why the government is motivated by this low, small severance -- motivated by a poor state, above all, in the state or social public sector, so it's afraid of taking on a greater commitment than it can meet. But how can this be a greater obligation than the Government can fulfill if such money comes, if so many donations arrive? Every day, we don't give a shit about the great help that comes into the country, the millions of contracts, the billions that come into our country. Well, where's that money, if they can't pay off three severances to a worker, they have to be two severances, that is, at the height of double or triple the amount of money? I think there is an illogicality here in the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I call on Minister Milovanovic to accept this amendment. It's not much more burden for the state, it's not much more burden for the government, and I think that we'd get workers who get fired, (and it's obvious that it's going to get a lot of them, either for nothing or simply because it's easier for someone to do business with a much smaller number of employees, than to keep the same level of employment) in this way for at least a few months, in which week, to make life easier, to facilitate the elemental existence. If the government wants to show any understanding, I will accept some of these amendments, to which its obligations increase. After all, that's where Mr. Suvlaki and Sirtaki from Thessaloniki arrived, so I think you should accept this amendment in that honor, and in his name.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15472	The word has the Minister of Labour and Employment, Mr Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15473	Here, let me get this straight -- this is about the minimum severances guaranteed by the law. The law does not prevent severances from being much greater than those prescribed. I will only remind myself of the programmes for the rescue of extra workers, which the government of the Republic of Serbia is working right now, or has been working. Here, let's take an example. Bank workers, who are currently working with -- they have the possibility, when it comes to severance, to choose one of the two options, one that is normally more favourable to them. The first is that they have an offer in one-time severance of 15 salaries in the economy, or they can choose a severance fee of 6,000 dinars, or 200 marks per year of work. When you look at it, you'll see it's a lot more than the law predicts. We have to determine one minimum, and it's in every country like that. There is absolutely no severance in many countries when layoffs occur. In some countries, it's more severance and more, but we're constantly bonding to the current situation. I guess, and I'm convinced that living standards and wages in this country will grow. Therefore, this severance will surely be much greater. On the other hand, when you look at this law, you see that we have two members of the United States who are handling the issue of severance, which is one newspaper. In Article 106, the issue of severance shall be further determined. Here you now have in this article, when it comes to the technological surplus, of the five options for quitting, the law provides for three to get severances. Therefore, I think the government made absolutely the right decision when it proposed these severances. Well, you can't give some rights that can't be realized. You've got too many bad business firms who can't even respect minimum severance. So, in that case, it should be taken over by the government. For next year, the government is preparing an active programme for the rescue of extra workers. I was saying yesterday that we are entering a period where we are going to solve these big systems - "Lola", "FAP", metal complex Belgrade, "Azotara" - Panchevo, etc. By law, absolutely no one is prevented, nor are the trade unions, by means of talks with the employer in collective agreements, from installing much more severance than the law had predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15474	Thank you. There's a word Mr. Wolf, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I closely followed the presentation of Minister Milovanovic and noticed the key contradiction in his presentation. At first, the minister said - we cannot accept such a commitment, we are simply unable to fulfill it or achieve it. And that, to some extent, could be relatively correct, not to follow the next story, in which the minister says - but so far, we have shown in practice that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing differently, giving and providing much more, and we will otherwise give much more, than is foreseen by the law. And then there's the story again -- but we can't accept the amendment, because that part of the government's commitment to Serbia, because of bad business, because of the difficult situation in the economy, we couldn't achieve it. I just have to say - and they called again, for example. Representatives of the government when they talk about the flag - we received a letter and a written statement (it is about a man whose name I will name), in Kragujevac, on 24 September 2001; Miljković Milos gave both his personal number and address, as well as his phone in Kragujevac. They even formed someone their own association. What's interesting is how it's done. The man, by the way, worked 31 years and 11 months as a glass-cutting man at the flag, and during NATO aggression, he went in the most difficult conditions to see what the villains had destroyed. He said he didn't get anything from the promised severance. He was supposed to get 3,500 marks, plus 2,700 marks, and now that he's getting paid at the Employment Service, they're refusing his severance. Of course, the letter, which was signed, also speaks clearly about how pressures were made on workers, how they had to seek to break their working relationship, according to the written order of Minister Vlahovic, in which way they were interrupted, in which way they were returned and accounted for the lowest possible average and what was happening here. It's a whole story. But I wanted to say one more thing -- for the Serbian government, this is not too much of a commitment. For the Serbian government, if he doesn't think of firing all of Serbia, if he counts on being, say, 100,000 fired, and taking on only one profit per fired worker, it's no longer big money; well, your friends can do it, Montgomery (when he can sit in our government's session, because of terrorist attacks on New York) to single out so much money, even after a commercial on all the TVs he has every day. (President: Time. That's how much he can spare, and that's how much they can give. And I think, as far as time goes, it's cold out there, it's snowing. Thanks for asking. I would ask you once again to respect these arguments, to accept this amendment. I think it'll be better for you, and I'm sure it'll be better for the employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15476	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote of 20, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 119, the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan G. Guduric. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 119, which speaks of workers' severances when they are technologically surpluses for organisational reasons or some economic measures. In a proposal issued by the Socialist Party of Serbia through my amendment, you are doubled: instead of a double quadruple, instead of a triple six-fold, instead of a quadruple eight-fold and instead of a five-fold ten-fold. I'll tell you how everyone gets an example out of their midst, since the Beochen cement factory here was mentioned with honor. According to this proposal, a worker with over 30 years of training, which is a technological surplus, will get, as the average salary is the order of 200 and some mark times five on the government's proposal, it will be about 1,000. By the way, on average, the worker of the Beician cement factory today earns it in less than two months. If someone thinks it's a good thing, and when I view it as a businessman in total, I think through this law and the Privatisation Act, it comes to the situation that workers actually pay out of their pocket to be fired. Because we're probably going to talk about concession and mining law here in a short time, because don't let anyone here now take us to convince us that it's normal for strangers to sign a privatisation contract for one, the other, third cementers and some of the following companies, but it's about cementers in this case without knowing what's waiting for them. Until the concession law and the mining law are defined, they buy a bunch of iron and some buildings, because cementers can't work without exploiting ore, and we still don't have this defined, since it's been said that the making of changes and supplementing those two laws in progress. So, I don't think there's a story that we've heard that this is some kind of excessive burden on the employer, since what's on the bright side here at the pay phone, and even through the media, the minister of privatisation -- we can't say about the economy, because that's what he's been doing, he's never talking about it, because the economy can hurt your head, and in privatisation, some other things happen -- he's listed a strong number of companies that are going to privatize. Then we want to free those bosses in those companies, too. First we'll sell the budget for the factories, and then we'll release them from the obligation to pay for the severances. Otherwise, through this law, it was given a clear opportunity to tie the sherpa to the workers' tail and kick off the firm. Just one more thing to say: I'm sorry it's not that gentleman here, but we MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia don't sleep till 12, not until 3 p.m., we're neither snotty nor snotty, we don't sniff...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15478	Please focus your discussion on the amendment you submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15479	You didn't warn Cedo Jovanovic yesterday when he was talking about sleeping and getting up. Therefore, do not warn me either. I'm only saying what one of my fellow MPs was saying, which, for two or three such discussions here, was not mentioned by you. Otherwise, I have another minute and I won't spend it. So, don't let anyone in here tell us who mom needs across the street with a hand to lead her not to get run over by a car, about some things. Therefore, when Ceda Jovanovic is old enough to know everything he needs to know, he should hold his letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15480	Mr. Guduric, I warn you to get back on the subject, or I'll have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15481	It might be your turn to earn that warning, because you're not doing your part of the job properly, if you think you can compensate for that by warning against the MPs. We had three similar suggestions here that differ in some details. Neither will likely be given an adequate answer, as the government's response is pointless and has nothing to do with common sense, nor with the situation in Serbia's economy. So, I'm not some optimist that this is going to go away, but just so we know that this is another law that takes out all the things they've had so far, and about who's talking from this pay phone and who's holding our letters, let him go home first, put in a mirror and look at himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15482	I ask the Members of Parliament to distinguish between two situations: one, when an MP appears to be talking about the subject of the agenda (let's say the amendment) and the other, when he has the right to replication or intervention in connection with the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. So when you participate in the amendment debate, you are required to stick to the agenda theme. When you have the right to replicate, then you do not have to stick to the subject of the agenda, as well as to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's the difference between Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic and you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is Mr. Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Socialist Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment signed by MP Stevan Guduric, who advocates again, for who knows which time, for collective agreements. We know collective agreements are the best protection of the interests of workers and employees, but obviously it is not worth it; the minister does not accept the obligation of collective agreements and seems to be free to talk about it. According to this amendment, given that the termination of the employment relationship comes at point 8) of Article 103, which is the most rigid point in the sense that cancellation can be given very subjectively for voluntary reasons, means when it comes to organisational changes, technological, technical, economic, and perhaps for these reasons this severance should certainly be increased. Compared to what was proposed by the promoter, these are two salaries in up to 10 years, three to 20, four to 30 and five salaries for over 30 years of internships, our proposal is to double these sums, means that the severances are 4, 6, 8 and 10 salaries. I trust the minister when we talk about banks, about public services, maybe it'll be different, because the minimum severances are prescribed here, but I'm afraid when it comes to large factories, big collectives, that it's not going to change at all, it means it's going to stay with these minimum severances. On the other hand, we are constantly talking about the West, we are talking about countries like France, Germany, there are severances, for example, for over 30 years of internships and 24 salaries; so that we do something like that, to give 24 salaries; by repeating that in France these salaries are perhaps 2,000 - 3,000 marks, and we have an average salary of 250 marks. It's not the same, but some principle would be similar.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15484	The word has the Minister of Labour and Employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15485	Since the gentleman mentioned France, here's the exact information. In France, the severance fee is 1/10 per month for each year. So 10% of the salary for each year's internship. When it comes to programmes, I need to meet the MPs that all programmes are being developed -- the flag programme, the banks, the Lola, the Azotara and all other programs, absolutely involved representatives of all three relevant unions. Although their representativeness and their positions have not been established, they are being consulted and they are actively taking part in the development of these programmes. When it came to the flag, all the unions that were registered in the flag were involved in the design of the program. When it comes to banks, representatives of the banking union also participated. It's the same now with Lola. So the unions are actively involved in the design of the program. Their suggestions and opinions are being incorporated into the programmes. In the end, these unions agree to the program before it starts to apply. I don't think there's a possibility of some manipulation when it comes to large systems, because there's a lot of trade unions, and they're the ones who, together with management and government, make these programs together.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15486	The word has the People's MP Tom Bushetic, a replica. Base - misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15487	It depends on how the documents are read. I read one thing, the minister can find another document where it's said otherwise. I've read it, and I have very good information to pay 24 wages. On the other hand, when we talk about France, we have an institute of noise. What does that mean? Someone who runs out of work has 80% of the average salary he had until he finds an adequate job. Something like that was in that law, in which we made changes and additions. So, cash compensation until there's an adequate job. We've changed that. Not all won, but many won. That's right. I'm behind what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15488	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 116, there are no abstentions, no vote of 20, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 121st amendment were submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The government accepted the amendment by proposing a legal-technical editorial of the text of the amendments. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs adopted the amendment, with a legal and technical editorial proposed by the Government, which was agreed by the representatives of the amendments at the Committee's session. The Legislative Committee is an amendment, with a legal-technical editorial proposed by the government, legally possible. I realize that this amendment, with the legal technical regulation proposed by the government, has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15489	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I know that the practice so far is that the amendments of the opposition are generally rejected, but I would ask you to pay attention to this amendment for two reasons. Liabilities contracts, and the relationship between the employer and the employee has the character of the bond, are exactly something that works in the legal system, but when there is a disturbance in the bond, the dispute can only be discussed by the court. The final position of Article 123 said that the arbitration decision is final and obliges the employer and the employee. I have the impression that we're going back to a time of communism and that peace council in the local communities that have been functioning, in which we've been looking for some sort of quasi-level between people on very important issues. I guess in this country, if it's legal and someone's calling for it to be legal, there's a court, a court that settles legal disputes. These aren't unserious things. Of course, in each of these situations, when there's a dispute between the employer and the employee, he's always a stronger employer. Let's not have the illusion that the employees before the arbitration will accomplish something. After all, who forms arbitration, who wants a major influence in arbitration, who wants to dictate the conditions of the work of arbitration and, in the end, who will finance the work of arbitration? Workers can't, they don't have money, they don't have salaries so that they can separate some part of the financing of arbitration. So he's going to be a finance employer. Whoever pays, he can decide. If we leave this position to function like this, without judicial protection with all these conditions that I've stated, then we'll come into disfavor. That's why I suggested that the position of the 5th Art. The 123rd deletes, and he says, "The arbitration decision is final and binding on the employer and the employee." Let's not trust the employer or the employee, let's just trust the court, because obviously only in this country, if we get into a situation where there's a legal state, it's the only court that's going to make the final decision. Let's not protect too many employers. We're really just protecting the employer here. Let's finally protect the worker in one place. My amendment is to delete attitude 5. The explanation that the above amendment is not accepted is malignancy, trendy and unprofessional. Please, if you have arguments against what I've just said, then tell me here at the pay phone why it's important for this attitude 5 to remain and what are the reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15490	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Milovanovic, you should accept this amendment, and now I will try to give a very serious argument as to why it is one of the worst members of this law. In fact, in the context of the section of alleged protection of individual rights, a similar institute is introduced under the Comar Act, which we adopted, but is not foreseen. A package of judicial laws, where something like this had to find its place, if it had to have the power to make binding decisions. It's now being introduced into the Labour Relations Act. Namely, what is it? It is said: "The general act or contract of work can provide for a procedure for the agreement of resolving issues of the employer-employee." Now the minister will say - it's not mandatory, it doesn't always have to, only if the employee agrees. But we have article 105. - offer him a work contract; changed circumstances; either you accept such arbitration or no further work, you can't work any further, no more work, you have to get fired. It's as clear as tears. However, here you take and give jurisdiction to competent courts into the hands of an informal body, in the hands of arbitration. Why? We have regular courts in charge of resolving issues from work disputes. We had a recent even practical experience, when, in an illegal manner, Minister Knezevic abolished the previous act, so he replaced the president of the Serbian Radical Party from the Faculty of Law. Of course, in the first degree, the court made the only logical and only possible decision. If it hadn't been for that, there would have been such arbitration and you know what would have happened -- you would have found Gašo Knezevic or some other half of your own, and then you can never again exercise your right to do so. Here, by retaining Article 5, which says that the arbitration decision is final and binding on the employer and the employee, you are taking away the right of the court protection worker, who is guaranteed by the Constitution of law. You can't take it away, because it's one of the constitutions of guaranteed and declared principles and the rights of every single person in this country. Now they're gonna make a deal, and if they don't, then they're gonna get fired. The employee was thus forced to be fired if he did not accept the contract of employment, so he must write his consent to the establishment or establishment of such arbitration. If you are already talking about the protection of individual rights, then that protection should be provided in the best possible way, not looking for a way to remove what citizens have rights under the Constitution and other laws of this country. Since everyone is calling for the rights and certain conventions, recommendations etc., I have brought the book "legal position of MPs" to examples of France, Austria, Germany and Yugoslavia. Nowhere in Europe is what you do in this House, to recruit MPs who think differently and speak differently. Since it may be early for some, they're up late because they want to read and see something different from what they usually have to watch and read every day in newspapers and television, let them buy today's morning newspaper, where the interview with Vojislav Seselj is, I think there's a lot of interesting things.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15492	Thank you. The word has the Minister of Labour and Employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15493	It's interesting that your defense workers and those stories that have been running through here these days. Whenever there is a member who provides a worker with more rights, you better come out with a request to delete such an attitude or to change such a member. The arbitration was introduced on a union proposal. The union demanded that this be legal. The trade unions have agreed to this proposal and this formulation. Now you want to take away their right. For the sake of the public, I have to read the entire 123rd term, to find out what this is about: "A general act or a contract on work can provide for a procedure for a negotiated settlement of issues between the employer and the employee. Employees and employers can bring issue before arbitration. The arbitration has an odd number of members. An arbitration panel shall include the same number of representatives of the parties in the dispute and an arbitration panel designated by the parties in the dispute by the agreement, from the order of experts on the area subject to the dispute. The composition of arbitration and proceedings before arbitration shall be governed by a general act. The arbitration decision is final and obliges the employer and the employee." It's normal for him to have to commit if they've already agreed. The agreement has two sides and must be applied. On the other hand, there is additional protection for employees. This additional protection is an inspection of work that strengthens rights and powers. In the end, there's always a trial. So for the first time, they avoid the so-called. Disciplinary commissions, which were actually directors, that director you're all against and who you're accusing of firing someone because of blue eyes and the like. We are now equating employers and trade unions. For the first time, we give unions the opportunity to directly defend their members or defend the company's employees. When such an agreement is reached, it is normal that the agreement is binding on both the employer and the employee. After all, there are always options to protect both through inspection and through court. If an employee considers that it is not possible to agree, there is no agreement between him and the arbitration employer, it is normal to include labour inspection and court.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15494	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15495	Dear MPs, I know that the minister would like no replica: it would be good if the debate could be lifted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I need to point out a few facts. I'll read you article 22. The constitution of this country, which should continue to represent the lex superior because it is the highest legal act, and before that I will tell you that I do not know what you and who you have agreed with. But that doesn't oblige any of us to point out the error in your actions, to violate the Constitution, to violate legal acts, and we in the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group can't be obliged to do so. Whether he said this or that union, I don't believe it, but it doesn't matter, I suggest you break the Constitution, Article 22. "Everyone has the right to all equal protection of their rights in the court proceedings, other state or any other body or organisation. Everyone is guaranteed the right to appeal or other remedies against a decision which is being resolved on his or her right or on a law-based interest." The right to work is one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You're saying the arbitration decision is final and binding on the employer and the employee, and he used to be the director we're fighting, who regulates the disciplinary procedure. The director wasn't conducting a disciplinary procedure. The Disciplinary Commission has conducted a disciplinary procedure. You had the right to lead a administrative dispute, and now you have no right to do anything. If you're going to deny all this, if you're going to say for everyone that it's possible, that it's only welcome with you, and that arbitration is being introduced that someone has no right to seek the protection of their rights before a court of law, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, then you'll be right, but I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15496	Is anyone else answering for the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15497	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Dragan Tomic, representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, well explained why the fifth position in Article 123 should be deleted. However, we, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, have other objections about this member. For example, in paragraph 3, when it comes to the formation of arbitration, it is said: "Arbitration has an odd number of members. In the form of arbitration, the same number of representatives of the party enters into the dispute and one arbitration panel appointed by the parties in the dispute by an agreement in the order of experts on the area which is the subject of the dispute." Who's the third one? The third will be the one appointed by the employer. Article 4 says, "The composition of arbitration and the procedure before arbitration shall be governed by a general act." It's all clear who's gonna have the upper hand here. As so far, under the current law, we had the maximum participation of trade unions, chambers and employers. The case works, Article 116, paragraph 3 says, "Arbitranovonova is composed of three members: one union representative, one regional Chamber of Commerce representative and one employer representative." When it comes to general and special collective agreements, we had the participation of both unions and governments; or, if not the founder of the Government, other founders. It's a different solution than what's being offered. The minister says they made a deal with the union, we don't know which one. We have one letter from the Independent Union, which is a majority union, which is a representative union, at least according to us, which says, "This law, by the reputation of union representativeness, forges some parasindicates and unions, which in most companies and institutions are completely negligible, because not only do they not have membership, but have become a bond of certain political parties. "I propose that we adopt this amendment to MP Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15498	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to put the amendments of Parliamentarian Dragan Tomic on Article 123, and I would like you to make a statement. For 46, against 114 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 123. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word, do you want a word, Mr. Wolfie? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15499	I call on Minister Milovanovic to accept this proposal because this proposal, in fact, seems to me, more clearly and more precisely to define the role of arbitration that would remain in the law in this way, but would be added (delegatement, of course, attitude 5, so that we do not come into collage with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia) new positions 5 and 6 which say, "As long as the procedure before arbitration of deadlines for the initiation of the dispute before the court in question does not run." Therefore, it cannot be prohibited and it cannot be taken away from anyone to demand the exercise of his rights before the court in charge. Item 6: "The decision on the agreement reached before arbitration has the power of judicial alignment". So, I think this is something that is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Serbia - arbitration remains, but is not taken away by the right of the citizen, the employee, the employer and anyone to demand the protection of their rights before the competent court, in accordance with constitutional provisions, the highest legal provisions with which all other norms in this country must be complied with. I call on you to accept this and I don't see why the Government would not accept something like this unless it really has no intention of depriving certain rights and completely facilitating any kind of work and any kind of obligation and removing any kind of employer's responsibility in relation to the employee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15500	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 117 abstentions, there were no 16 votes, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union has submitted this amendment, and I must immediately point out that it is one of the nine amendments agreed and accepted by the unions at the talks that were held before the debate on the Labour Law began. The amendment is almost identical to the amendment submitted by Mr Nikolic and aims only to support the principle of economicity of the process. It is illogical that two parallel proceedings are conducted in the same way - court proceedings and the court proceedings before arbitration. On the other hand, a worker who wants to exercise his right to be injured, right out of a working relationship, must surely put his hand in his pocket, take out the money, and pay some lawyer to represent him in court. What happens if arbitration decides that the worker is right, will the lawyer take out the money and return it to the worker? Never. So, the SS is meant to simply protect the workers and I don't think there's any reason why this amendment shouldn't be accepted, because it doesn't even touch the so-called. The reformist course of this Labour Act. I really don't understand, as an MP for the Soviet Union, why he stubbornly wants this amendment not to be accepted. For the sake of the public, let me put it this way - the position of 5 of Article 123 is deleted and two new positions 5 and 6 are added. Paragraph 5 reads: "As long as the proceedings are pending before the arbitration for work disputes, the deadlines for the initiation of the dispute before the court in charge do not run. "Station 6 reads: "The decision on the agreement reached before arbitration has the power of judicial alignment." I think the matter is very clear and that this is no longer to be debated. And to point out that MPs, as you have noticed, are not coming out from the Soviet Union to explain all their amendments, especially those that are not in line with the union, just so we don't waste time, because we see that there is no understanding that amendments, which are only intended to improve the proposed text of the Labour Act, are adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15502	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted 15, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic submitted the amendment. The government, the Labour Committee, the martial arts and social issues have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has not adopted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? The word wants Mr. Minister of Labour and Employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15503	I think this is a good amendment and it would be his place in the law. I don't know what the procedure is, whether it's a vote or not, then I urge the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15504	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 123, against three, with three abstentions, he did not vote 51, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Tomic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 124a be added after article 124a. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 24, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 126, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Stanulov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of this law. On Article 126, the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15505	Dear People's MPs, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 126 of Article 2 in the current text, which reads: "The person with which the contract under Article 1 of this law is concluded has the right to pension and disability and health insurance in accordance with the law". I propose a new text, which reads: "The person with which the contract on work under Article 1 of this article is concluded has the right to compulsory social security, in accordance with the law". I would like to give a brief explanation: temporary and occasional jobs, as one of the flexible forms of work engagement, represent a significant form of engagement. It is not clear why these individuals are entitled only to PIO and health insurance, not unemployment insurance. This solution is contrary to the existing solution in Article 6. Employment law and the exercise of the right of unemployed persons; that provision requires the provision for unemployment to be provided by persons who are in a working relationship and persons who otherwise exercise their labour rights. Contribution to unemployment, together with contributions to PIO, as well as health insurance, is an integral part of the Social Insurance Act. Consensually, as well as starting with the definition set out in Article 9. The draft labour law, this is one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should accept the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15506	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group will support this amendment, and I don't see why the Government of the Republic of Serbia would not accept such an amendment in the law, in its proposal, for the simple reason that, in the context of the common rights and obligations, even insurance is added in the event of unemployment and nothing more. This, however, would provide something for those who perform temporary and occasional tasks, much better and much more than is provided for in the bill. Of course, we from the SRS parliamentary group had a huge number of amendments, and only a few were accepted by the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I guess he prefers to accept some other amendments. I would ask professional services and the president of the National Assembly to provide us with the exact text of the amendment in the future, because the recent amendment, which the minister asked the Assembly to declare, asked for the approval of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, none of us had and we didn't know what to vote for, how to define ourselves. I know it's the parliamentary majority no matter what, the people of power. They have no idea why they vote, nor why they don't vote, nor have the law, so they'll vote as they're told. So I'm asking that we get such papers in time and that we can have an exact notification of where, when and how we vote. I don't think the Government of the Republic of Serbia would have lost anything to this. The government of the Republic of Serbia can only make one good gesture and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15508	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 112 abstentions, 19 did not vote, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 127 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Stanulov. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15509	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted the amendment to Article 127(1). The draft labour law, in the following text: "The employer can conclude a contract to conduct temporary and occasional transactions with a person who works through a youth or student cooperative." Given the complex social situation, and according to Belgrade's Centre for Liberal-Democratic Studies, as many as 20 unemployed compete for a newly-opened job, it is necessary to allow socially endangered young people to easily make additional income while waiting for employment. In fact, I believe that this provision, as given in the amendment, would give positive effects in practice, because it is logical for cooperatives to prepare contracts and pay commitments, not for employers to be burdened with hours. Also, the cooperatives are not in a position to take care of and prepare documentation. That's why they're getting organized into cooperatives. I believe that this attitude expresses interest and will, above all, young people who are waiting for work and who work through youth cooperatives, through student cooperatives, as well as through an employers' union. The Government has not accepted the amendment on the grounds that the proposed amendment does not alter the substance of Article 127(1) of the provisions of Article 1(1). It's a bill of law. As applicant for the amendment, I accept the government's argument and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15510	Since the applicant withdrew the amendment to Article 127, it ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The proposal to add a new member of 133 after Article 133. National MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meso Omerovic have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 133 be added after article 133. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15511	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 133 is the first in a series of members of the chapter to regulate the collective contract, specifically the subject and form of a collective contract. Social democracy lawmakers believe that Article 133 did not essentially raise a question without whom this collective agreement cannot be signed. In fact, Social Democracy MPs believe that the basic lack of membership in 133 is that it does not define the minimum content of the collective agreement. We believe that it does not contain those issues of a collective agreement without which a collective contract should not be what it should be. We therefore propose a new member of 133a, or who in turn is, which reads: "The collective contract determines the price of work for the simplest work, the price of the work of typical and other jobs, the elements for determining earnings and other rights and obligations". We believe that accepting such a solution, i.e. this new member in the chapter on collective agreements, would further encourage the arrangement of mutual relations between the employer and the workers by this collective agreement. I appeal to the MPs to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15512	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 33, against 99, the abstention of four, was not voted 38, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 136 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment that deletes Article 136 of the proposed law. It is a section that speaks of types of collective agreement, and to make it clearer for Serbian citizens - Article 135 says a collective contract and a special collective contract for a particular branch, group, subgroup or activity is concluded for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Wait, Mr. Minister, you will accept this amendment. The provision of Article 136 is in direct contrast with Article 135, and it will present an irrevocable difficulty in everything that should happen, in everything that should take place under the very provisions of this law. Namely, you have, say, textiles that come together at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia, and then you give the possibility to create special collective agreements for the territory of the territorial autonomy unit. So, don't join the Milanese textiles, Arandelovac textiles, Novi Sad textiles, Kragujevac or other places, but only to combine textiles from one place in Vojvodina with textiles from another place in Vojvodina. Why and who needs it, why is it limited by a previous member, who is reasonable, who is acceptable, who the Government itself has written, Article 135, and now there will be special collective agreements for territorial autonomy units. There's just no excuse for that. Now such information will be given, and now there should be a real and economic ghetto, past the political ghetto, so that they can -- what would they from Panchev co-operate with the textiles in Belgrade, when they are much closer to working with the textiles in Somboro? So what's the logic? Why should this stay? If these are some political reasons, for which such a member should exist, it would be good if someone from the government had told us that, but I don't think we're yet going into Serbia's trinkling and economic breakdown, in this political sense, of course. And, I'm sorry that the minister isn't here, and I'm sorry that he won't accept this amendment, because this member is completely unnecessary, completely pointless, and only bad, only evil can bring; none of this will have any good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15514	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 45, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 20 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 138 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 140th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15515	We from the SRS have to go out for a pay phone, because there's been a strict ban on many televisions to let us go at all, so we're asking for understanding and trying to point out bad members and change something in these laws. Namely, by amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic, article 140 in item 1, number 15 is replaced by number 20, and in paragraph 2, the number 10 is replaced by number 20. Namely, the representative union for the conclusion of a collective agreement with the employer is considered a union in which it is at least a member, and instead of "15% of the employer's employees", our proposal is to be "20% of employees", and in the second position, which is said to be a representative union for the conclusion of a collective contract at the level of the Republic, i.e. a unit of territorial autonomy or local self-government, is considered to be a union that has at least 20% of the employees in the branch or activity for which the collective contract is concluded. So there is change, instead of 10%, to be 20%, it seems to me for perfectly clear and justifiable reasons; to avoid manipulations, not to be brought here by some who are falsely represented as trade unions, as representatives of trade unions, who are not really representing anyone; they represent the government, represent the regime; rather, we have those who really eat labour interest teams and globally, so at the level of individual businesses, individual companies or individual activities and branches, however you will. I think it's something fair and correct to the unions, to those who represent workers' interests. I think the government should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15516	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 44, against 110, the abstentions were not voted 22, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 141st amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15517	This amendment given in front of the SRS parliamentary group on Article 141. The bill of law is actually about the same situation that we have in the union, except here we're talking about a representative employers' association. The correction was given because the number was wrong, so that's one technical mistake. However, since the minister has now come back to the O.R., I would like to say something very important, and it concerns the principle of SRS attitude towards trade unions, as well as the employers' association; and these employees also belong to one of Serbia's unions. It has always been important for us to give, as we have this time, when talking to the representatives of the union on 25 October, which we had with them, principled support for all their legitimate demands. We have always advocated, and this clearly stands in the programming definition of the SRS, that the entire union struggle is led past political parties. Why do we strive to increase the percentage of union representativeness, including the employers' association -- precisely because almost all political parties in Serbia, over the past 10 years, have manipulated trade unions, their demands, used them for daily-political purposes, and then denied everything agreed, rejected them. And in the case of a parliamentary group, which represents the majority here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we see that this is the case, because the key amendments, which are related to Article 105 and the collective agreement, therefore, to Article 1 of the Law, which you first agreed with representatives of the Union of Serbia, are not accepted. It's important that we have a percentage of both unions and employers because so-called. The Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions, whose president became a minister yesterday and as such, was Mr. Milovanovic, was in fact one of those political groups, not the union, who were in the DOS machinery campaign last year, and a global scam that deceived workers. This internationalisation in all spheres of our life, in the entire society since the coming of the DOS to power, which is being looked at in all legislative projects, you are not hiding it, it stands in every sense, and which is the only thing that is strongly opposed to the Serbian Radical Party, will actually lead to the adoption of this law, without these key amendments that you should have adopted, and which we have agreed with representatives of the Union of Serbia, to produce the right legal trauma and the situation that will have far-reaching negative consequences for all employees in Serbia. This desire after Serbia is given by your so-called The reform course includes that global market, that it blindly respects the orders coming from the International Monetary Fund, from the World Bank, has led to a situation where the demands and wishes of the Randics, so without manipulation by the Serbian Radical Party MPs, who have always been principled in these contacts and talks, are not respected at all, and that everything is actually happening in this one round of states and employers, and that workers are less concerned. The minimum labour rights under this proposal is not protected. You can't imagine what the reactions of the employees in Serbia looked like last night, it didn't interest you, because after leaving the Assembly Hall you had no contact with them, and especially those who rush to the pansy insurance counters to retire as soon as possible, before your yet disastrous announcement to amend the pension and disability insurance laws. These are their reactions after yesterday's refusal to adopt such an amendment, which envisioned the obligation to pay the severance payment on retirement. It's all about what unions should stand for, but unions that really have support among workers, like the one who announced a protest to you, as already police forces are deployed outside the Assembly building. It is a sign that disgruntled workers, embittered by being deceived and that today you with the resilient majority will vote this law, protest.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15518	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15519	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I know that there is no argument that Mrs Jovanovic could take into account, but, above all, because of the MP group of DOS and the public, I have to point out certain wrong interpretations that are present in Mrs Jovanovic's views, which go towards accusing the DOS parliamentary group in a way that is uncivilised. I believe you've received a declaration from the Alliance of Independent Unions, signed by Professor Milenko Smiljanic, who, among other things, says the heads of the parliamentary groups are obliged to say in the follow-up to the assembly that they agreed on with the unions; how much the amendment to the draft labour law and which amendments have been agreed on; that they sincerely and consistently advocate their adoption. The strike committee of the Union of Serbian Unions, at the cost of social unrest in Serbia, does not give up 50 agreed amendments. This is a price that corresponds to the Serbian Radical Party, which the Serbian Radical Party has the courage to charge, because in the accident it has produced in its operations in Serbia over the past 10 years, they actually see their benefit today. In a letter signed by Mr Smiljanic, among other things, we have tried to reach an agreement and agree 50 amendments in negotiations with representatives of parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament. That's what we did, but we were double-crossed first of all by the DOS MPs' club. We believed the deal would be respected, but they're more than half of the deal they want to play. I repeat, this is a letter from Mr Smiljanic, which talks about 50 amendments. In a review of the writing of the press, which daily receives every MP in this assembly, I apologize if you do not receive it, but it is your right to use the information service, from 26 October 2001, "The Voice of the Public" under the heading "The Union and DOS have agreed on the labour law", Mr. Smiljanic says: "We went from member to member, pedantly combing the proposed solution and amendments" and stated his impressions of Smiljanić, admitting that he was surprised by the energy and accuracy of the partners on the opposite side of the table, in which he said he was deceived, because he thought they were much more superficial. You are facing today 30 amendments that are the fruit of what the union wanted, said the ESS leader and added that he is pleased with what the government has offered them, as new miles are being made for reforms in the Serbian economy. Today, a new quality of relations with the government (and the DOS parliamentary group) has been achieved through social dialogue, as we imagined it to be. It was reached by arguments, not by fussing and giving equal chances to capital and the world of work, Smiljanic said, congratulating democratic Serbia for establishing a social dialogue between the government and the union. He also congratulated the workers on winning, as well as all parliamentary parties who expressed their desire to overcome disputes. At a press conference, Smiljanic also welcomed "all citizens of our country, whose initiatives through these processes have not been diminished". He added that the results of the talks would be notified to the union union authorities... The negotiations included representatives of the New Health Union, as well as the EPS Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15520	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15521	The "News" of the same day read -- "Miljenko Smiljanic, head of the Soviet Union, visibly excited, shared satisfaction with DOS representatives over the agreement reached. Apologying to reporters for big words, he said the pages of new social history have been printed today. "Politics", reporting from the same press conference, which was held after the DOS parliamentary group meeting, says "A deal of MPs and trade unions" (title), accepted 30 of the 72 union amendments (subtitle). "Blic," reporting from the same press conference, says -- "DOS accepted 30 amendments to the draft labour law" (subtitle); the Plus Union (title) -- claims Smiljanic. The same report was also published in the list "Today" under the heading "Courtwork Bills", as well as in "Express Policy". I repeat that the DOS parliamentary group has supported 33 amendments to the draft labour law and that, in fact, the argument, highlighted by the Union of Serbian Unions, citing the price of social unrest, cannot find an excuse.... (President: I warn you in time, Mr Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... in DOS parliamentary group policy. So, it's about the obvious political abuse that tends to be in the atmosphere of disaster and agony that we have found and that we are trying to solve, not by accusing the opposition, but by looking for a partnership in those segments where it is necessary to overcome the common disaster, someone is trying to reverse things, present them differently than they really are, and in such circumstances achieve some kind of political benefit. It is logical to expect such a thing from the Serbian Radical Party, given that it is represented by people who are not ready to respect the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15522	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Alexander Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's interesting that someone's replica can last six minutes, but they won't get a warning. It is important to give warnings, take away the word and depart from the session opposition MPs, MPs of the SRS. I just have to say, as far as lies and truth are concerned, that we're telling the truth, not lies, and that shows the fact that you're most afraid of our words. That's why you're here to ban us from showing up everywhere, to broadcast what we're saying. As for the talks with representatives of the SRS parliamentary group, these are the sides of the 23rd and 24th programmes I have already talked about, it is said "that representatives of the parliamentary SRS have pointed out that they are giving principled support to union requirements and will not instrumentise it". The difference between the SRS parliamentary group and today's majority, perhaps someone from the former government, but especially with regard to today's majority, the former opposition, is the fundamental difference is that we've never instrumented unions. You put a union in yours, not a parliamentary group, but in your election coalition. Well, what kind of union is that for me when he's on the list of political parties going to the polls? No, it's a criminal party union, not a labour union, whatever it is, whether it's Secretary Milovanovic's union or someone else. It's not a labour union, it's a union abuse, it's an abuse of workers in the worst possible way. Even they were in their declaration correct enough to say that we didn't want them or anyone else in the union labour struggle to instrumentize. The moment that trade unions, or political parties, are involved in a union fight, that moment is no longer a battle for labour rights but a battle for political points. It's funny. Secondly, they even said that our parliamentary group voted against inclusion in the agenda of the Labour Law, and that the decision was made with a minimum majority, about 90 for and 50 against. So they even wrote it, which was our very simple and logical explanation. But it's funny that you tell anyone how civilized, uncivilized or I don't know what. It's funny, because it's the only argument you're going to get a hundred times, as well as the story of reforms -- we're for reform, we're a reform block, and the others are an anti-reform block. Natasa Jovanovic was uncivilized only because she said that Cedomir Jovanovic or anyone from Cedin's flock and the MPs' group deceived the unions, only because she told the truth and everything that union representatives repeated yesterday, which again today, which, I'm sure, will repeat tomorrow. (President: Time. I don't want to go into what kind of store is between the DSS and the DS, which is the word, that someone doesn't vote for the law in principle, but they're going to vote for the law in general. I'm not interested in relationships within the regime at all. We don't deal in politics, we never do, and those who want to trade in that way, let them think afterwards about the political consequences. We're not gonna lie. We'll tell the truth, even if it's all our doors, wherever we can talk, closed. But you can't close our streets, our squares, you can't shut our mouths in parliament. (President: Mr. Wolfie, I warn you in time. The weather's cold, the snow's falling, and I'm done. So you can't ban us from doing it in a legitimate and legal way, the most normal, most decent -- because we do it and because we fight in the National Assembly, and we don't read the paper, we don't bite at seeds -- that you're telling us that we're uncivilized or that we're lying, or that we're like this or that we're like this. We have the right to criticise, we are the opposition. That's what we'll do as long as we're in this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15524	Anybody else answer for a word? Right on the line, Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15525	When someone comes out and tells the truth, then the minister has the right to defend himself, even though it has always been the opposition's desire here that the ministers have no right to defend themselves, but to obey what the opposition tells them. The untrue stories of an earlier speaker, when he said my former union was a criminal organization. I didn't say that. ) Such insinuations do not appeal to one MP, especially to that union that has been one of the bearers for the past ten years against the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, his associates and those parties who have warmly supported him and who have been doing everything against interest, above all these workers and workers in this country. Because of these and such policies that these parties conducted, the factories were filled with deaths of workers who did not have enough for food, nor had enough money to heal, and most of them ended up on various fronts, in wars where this country did not participate, from where they returned as disabled. That policy has also driven the union to fight the regime, and in the interest of workers above all. Normally, now certain individuals here support their union, a union that in the last ten years has been the organisation that has signed, bowed down and executed the orders of the employers. Well, I'm surprised by one thing -- that you didn't fight so hard for that union when he signed shameful collective agreements, when he allowed this country's salary to be one mark. It's a union that illegally signed collective agreements and came all the way to making these collective agreements ridiculous. And then you go out for this pay phone and you're so hot for the workers, and everything you've done so far has been against the interests of the workers. The workers don't trust you anymore, and that's what the workers showed when they voted for DOS in the election. The workers in this country know that there is a period in which it must be difficult, but they know very well that this government, that this majority in the Assembly of these same workers, guarantees that they will be much better off than they have ever been with you. That's the point. You can call on workers on television screens to get them into a stand-alone union that you claim to be majority, but unfortunately, those times are over. You can't dictate to the workers anymore, you can't move them from your factories, you can't get them on buses and you can't get them to rally to yell "live Sloba." That story is over. The workers in this country have become aware and are very clear to what their future is. This future is that these workers in this country will live just as well as workers in other European countries. That's what this government guarantees them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15526	Mr. Ivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15527	Ladies and gentlemen, I deeply believe that the viewers of this transmission are moved by the exposure of a man who is president of the Association of Free and Independent Unions, who are so free and independent that he sits as a minister, politically-oriented, in the DOS regime. That's what he said about himself and what he said. I would only read what his workers wrote about him: "The most persistent in breaking this anti-worker and anti-sidical law is just Minister Milovanovic, the frozen "president so-called. Associations of Free and Independent Trade Unions," which managed to perform its entire membership of 150 people in front of the Assembly on 5 December this year and reward them with a daily, sandwich, paid leave from work and free transportation by factory buses." You're not Sloba Milosevic, you Slobi can't even clean shoes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15528	Here's a word for Mr. Wolf, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15529	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to Minister Milovanovic and what he will say. I'll point you right at a member who's been injured. Article 102 has been injured. For everything Mr. Milovanovic said, you had to give him a warning, and he told a series of lies. I invite you, Mr. Milovanovic, to say - when did the Serbian Radical Party secure the salary, daily, meal, sandwich, transportation and one single worker in Serbia for any gathering of the Serbian Radical Party? Come out and state, the only set we've come to, secure or guarantee any sandwich, transportation, any logbooks, salaries or anything else. And an assembly, if you mention it, at the same time I will resign as the MP, and if not, you will be remembered as a liar. I'm saying that everything you've said to that team is a complete lie. We haven't abused a single union once. We never had our people there. None of the leaders have ever been a radical, or any member of the Serbian Radical Party, to say an insignificant member, although they are all equally important, but someone who would be in the leadership was not. We've never manipulated that, and what you've been doing, you might be able to transfer to someone else and not to us. Here's your union, and in a collective where you're president of the board of directors, Mr. Milovanovic, to whom you say, "On the basis of the agreement reached by the union with the IMT administration, all workers who take part on Wednesday, 5.12. in front of the Serbian Parliament, a sandwich will be provided, organised by bus from IMT and paid daily." This is what Serbian radicals have never done and will never do. As for the deceased and the one who, as much as anyone he stood for, Mr. Minister, in your time - I am ashamed that no one knows in this room or those people's names, because it can't be mentioned - two workers killed themselves for what you've shared with them in Kragujevac. You can't even talk about it with dead people and not talk about what's going on. At the time when the salary was ten marks, we asked for a government shift, and no one in Serbia knew about it. As for those ten marks, when we asked for the shift of that government, those ten marks were hard to live for about seven or eight days, and with the current 200 marks, how much pay could be, you can't live for three days, what are the prices and what costs and charges you've imposed on this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15530	Right to replication, Minister of Labour and Employment, Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15531	First of all, I resigned as president of the Association, which is known to everyone. What you've brought out is a pure lie. On the other hand, it was a matter of principle and it had to be a personal matter. I remember, representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, who said they would resign when NATO arrived in Kosovo, so that happened and everyone else in the government, no one resigned. I'm surprised, what is this morality of the party's representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15532	As a representative of the parliamentary group, according to an amendment to article 141, MP Aleksandar Vukic, representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you to accept the amendment of Serbian Radical Party MP Natasa Jovanovic. I expect you'll accept it, because the minister who's able to say everything he just said, with no argument and no idea what to say to me, to what I told him that Serbian radicals never instrumented unions, can come out and talk about something third. I'm obliged to say just a few sentences, and I hope you won't recalibrate me, because many have spoken of such things. None of us in the Serbian Radical Party are so stupid, no matter what you think, that he thought we'd get a lot of points in time and that the people would love us very much because we joined the coalition with left-wing parties. We knew how people would react, but we had no alternative. The alternative was for you to come to power, which is a disaster for Serbia. For at least a while we managed to prevent it, at least a year or two, we managed to prevent that disaster, so that something could be better for the workers and the citizens of Serbia. In an explanation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why it does not accept the amendment to Article 141 has shown that the amendment is unclear. It is clear that it was something that deserved correction and what it was supposed to say in the previous article, but the government is unknowingly describing anything she does not like. It seems to me that anyone who has read the law or who wants to see anything in the law is perfectly clear what it is. We'd be able to fix the rights of the worker a few times. We don't think that would have been significantly improved, but it would be good if a great fighter for workers' rights, since we are not and he is, came out a little bit in the snow and turned to the workers, just to see how they'd welcome him. Minister Milovanovic now said they were not workers. What are they, Mr. Milovanovic? Shame on the workers. You're ashamed of people just because they're protesting against you. Only those who will support you are good. It's only the good ones who will be there for you. Those who protest, those who are against you, they are not good and they are not workers. A minister who says they're not workers should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15534	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 51, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 21, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. The government accepted the amendment by proposing a legal-technical editorial of the text of the amendments. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, with a legal-technical editorial proposed by the government. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The representative of the amendment, MP Rodoljub Sabic, informed that the applicants of the amendment remain in the text of their amendment, which they submitted to Article 143. Would you like a word to Mr. Shabic? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has the Minister of Labour and Employment, Mr Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15535	It would be good to accept this amendment, as it facilitates the establishment of union representativeness.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15536	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the Members of Parliament to vote. For 122, against 7, with five abstentions, he did not vote 51, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic to article 145. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15537	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the amendment to article 145 is not great. It's about a discrepancy with article 135 and his further application, he'd be collapsing. Here's the text of that proposal on Article 145. - in Article 145, point 1 after the words "actuality" are added: "for the territory of the Republic of Serbia". Since this amendment is not a long story, I have plenty of time left, and for the MP, time is a rare thing, to get behind this pay phone. Since the minister hasn't answered any questions in my discussion in principle, as well as my amendments, I'm going to use that right, and it's about this law. What to do with pregnant women, maternity mothers, child care rights, the benefits of a job experience after the birth of a third child - this exclusively applies to women from the village, i.e. To our peasants. The Soviet Parliament's group has been constantly insisting on solving this problem, and even during a principled review of this law, I have pointed out, in concrete facts, that we do not care about our peasants, in this case for our peasants, where they are placed in another category of women. I would like to underline something else, since there have been several exclusive speeches here, it may be more like a pre-election campaign, but I will draw a slight tone to this: the Soviet Parliament Group has proposed several amendments that we consider constructive; one of them has even been accepted at joint consultations between the heads of the parliamentary groups and representatives of the unions, and this time has not been accepted, as many amendments have not been agreed upon in the meetings of the heads of the parliamentary groups and representatives of the unions. In principle, we were against the adoption of the law. As the debate continued to take place through these amendments, we felt that there could possibly be some adjustments, improvements. As I said, we have had several such amendments, and none of them have been accepted; I think the Assembly Group of the Soviets always remains principled and that for reasons I have stated they will not and cannot support the Law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15538	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 120, two abstentions, 19 did not vote, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 145, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SRS have requested the removal of Article 145's position. If the amendment of Alexander Vukic, which is required to delete Article 136, would not need to explain this amendment, it would only be a matter of the Legislative Committee that would have to intervene in this article. This second view, which speaks of a special collective agreement for the territory of the territorial autonomy unit and local self-government, concludes a representative association of employers and a representative union, is in direct contrast with Article 135, which clearly states that a collective contract and a special collective contract for a particular branch, group, subgroup or activity is being concluded on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Why, then, in a special member again, the possibility of organization and by territorial principle. I understand why, but for the sake of the public and for the sake of you not reading between the ranks, it's only for those unions to be instrumented, so whenever you need them to get together, then at the level of the municipality, gather that representative union of yours for those intentions that you need. Or, before the elections, of course, you negotiate and negotiate with the unions, and the next member is already saying that, for example, for public companies, the negotiator is a local self-government. There are a lot of public enterprises, especially in Belgrade, in large cities, in Nis, Kragujevac, large by number of employees and then already being blackmailed by workers, so it is said - we will accept that if you go to the polls and vote for us. It's as clear as day. And for that reason, and not only because of that, it is unacceptable that you seek, that is, to predict organisation and special collective agreements both on territorial principle and on the border principle, because the only thing that makes sense is that workers working in the same branch have the same problems and that they should advocate their rights. But first of all, you think of political rights and trade unions as either a means of assistance in politics or you bring them directly into politics. Leave the workers to fight for their rights, through the union, negotiate with them, if you are an employer as a state or as a local self-government, if you have already defined yourself, given above all what they are looking for to improve their position, and all of them, even though they are united in one union, can be politically very different. In the union, they are not united by the same political orientations, but by being in a particular economic branch and having certain problems; therefore, there is a union as the flow of the civilized world.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15540	Does anyone else want a word? I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 44, against 124 abstentions, there were no 22 votes, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 147, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15541	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in Article 147 at the end of Article 2, the point is deleted and the words are added as follows: "proportional to the number of members". What's this about? I will read the whole article so that those who do not have the law in front of them, as well as Serbian citizens, can hear what this is about: "The individual collective agreement concludes the representative union with the employer and the director. If more representative trade unions participate in the conclusion of a collective agreement referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the Committee for Negotiations shall be educated. The members of the committee referred to in Article 2 shall be designated by representative trade unions. In the negotiation process for the conclusion of a collective contract under Article 1 of this Article, the representative union is obliged to co-operate with a union that has at least 10% of the employees of the employer, in order to express the interests of the employees who are members of that trade union." So, I think it's a perfectly clear amendment. We just want the members of the union to participate in this negotiating committee, a proportional number of union members, because this is the only possible way to make it what the law says - the right representativeness. If one of the regime's pressures is going to make these 10% as much as necessary and then that 10% has the same role as the other 90%, it seems to me to be something that is completely illogical and that no one can accept. We insist that the number of members be proportioned to the union's representativeness. I think it's something that's acceptable to everyone in this room. I expect the government of the Republic of Serbia to accept this amendment, especially given the fact that a similar amendment, such as that submitted by the MPs of the SRS, has been submitted by individual representatives of the government. If you do not want to respect the representatives of the SRS because you may not like which political organisations we are from, accept this amendment and because of the fact that, certainly in the same text, the representatives of some of your political parties have submitted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15542	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 61, against 197, abstentions, the vote was not 15, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 149. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15543	That I was right when I spoke about the principles of the SRS regarding amendments to Article 141. The bill, the amendment that you have not accepted, also speaks of this situation with the amendment to Article 149. Namely, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I asked Article 149(1) to delete "the territorial autonomy unit or local self-government" when it comes to the conclusion of a collective agreement, to add in point 2 of the post-point point: "proportional to the number of members". Gentlemen of the DOS, all of you who have negotiated with the Union of Serbian Unions, with their strike board, all of you who speak of your principle, that that's when the trade unions discovered that you are not so superficial, how unprincipled you are and how superficially you understand their demands is this amendment to Article 149. Because, in the information they provided to all parliamentary groups, we were informed that the amendment was to Article 149. (which, in those talks, brought before you a representative of the union, or their strike committee), in the same text as the one I submitted to the SRS parliamentary group, was accepted. When some MPs, who without arguments, lies and delusions want to perform for the assembly speaker, answer to come back and talk about some time that was appropriate for them, in defense of what unions require, and what matches the position of the SRS for Article 149, I would like to say that much happened after October 26th and that it came on November 27th; on November 27th, because you did not accept this amendment to Article 149 of the other amendment, they have reached a conclusion in which you are being warned and with similar warnings will arrive today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia building. Since the result of the amendment to the draft law is not yet known in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and now it is already clear that the Serbian Union remains on the request that amendments be agreed... (President: Ms. Jovanovic, please explain your amendment to article 149) I explained it and I'm talking about it being absolutely consistent with what the Union of Serbia is looking for, which would meet their demands and the reform character of the Law would not be changed. Otherwise, the legislator directly opens up social conflicts in the practical application of the Law. That's exactly what's going to happen, because it offended them that you didn't want to respect what you talked about and what you agreed on on October 26th. By your inauguration, you have insulted the unions and denied the fact that the negotiating team of unions with the heads of parliamentary groups has agreed 51 amendments to this law. One of these agreed amendments is this amendment to Article 149, which I am confident you will not accept now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15544	The word is from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, representative of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15545	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the greatest benefit we could get out of the previous performance is the fact that after October comes November. That's the only truth. In all that you have said, I am not denying you again, but I am the signator of the agreement between the DOS parliamentary club and the union representative, Mr Smiljanic. Whether you want to admit it or not, he said, following talks held on October 25th and not October 26th, that 30 amendments were adopted that were the fruit of what the union wanted, showing satisfaction with that. You may have some different information, but I have no doubt that in everything that the union has changed in the meantime, compared to what it has previously accepted, there is also a certain political impact on those who, at the cost of the social unrest that the union brings to our attention, see some of their own benefits. Still, I wouldn't want people sitting in MPs' benches who see their chance in social unrest. I don't think that's really the case. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15546	The basis for the replica. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: he misread me. I didn't think he misread your interpretation. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. I didn't give you the line, I give you my word to Mr. Wolf. He has the word Mr. Vukic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15547	Mrs. Micic, you violated the Rules of Procedure because you had to give the right to the replica of Ms. Jovanovic, you had to give it because it was directly mentioned, and in the most negative context possible. I don't know what someone's supposed to get a line for, if what's happened now couldn't get one. Then I don't know what this National Assembly is turning into and how we're going to have to react and what's going to be in the coming period, but it would be good to listen to the MPs from time to time what they're saying, and then, apart from the evil intentions, you could say, you couldn't find an excuse if you hadn't heard what happened or what didn't happen. As far as the SRS is concerned, we've never sought our political chance in social unrest. Unlike all others, or most others on the political scene of Serbia, we have always sought our political chance in the elections, which were almost never democratic, the last at least, were not even legal, but we took part and always recognised the will of citizens and peoples. Is there anyone in this hall who can say that the SRS once did not recognise the will of the people, whatever she was; we were always the first to come out with results, the most accurate results, and even in the last elections, we gave our political opponents records from where they didn't have them, so we could tell the truth about what happened in Serbia. So much for looking for interest in some social unrest, I don't remind myself of deliberately organized strikes in the election campaign, their abuse, who went there, asked for the support of some people. It's one of the things that we in the SRS are different from you, it's something we've never done. Our work is completely different and we're doing it the best we can. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would say it would be important for this amendment to be accepted because of the two attitudes involved. So it's a member of 149 that deletes the words "that is, units of territorial autonomy or local self-government". We've already talked about it, if I'm not mistaken, in article 136 and another member, and then the amendment to that article was also rejected. It would be good to accept this amendment, because we would throw out those words, the government's position in the bill, the de facto of the previous members, that in such a way we do not restrict the association of employers by branches, by works, not to limit them by saying - you are limited to the territory of the AP Vojvodina, or who knows how much all territorial autonomy Serbia will be divided by a new constitution, which is written by your experts, and in what way, so they will be limited to these principles everywhere. As for the second position, at the end of Article 2, the point is deleted and the words are added: "proportional to the number of members", so this is about representative trade unions -- not to remain the principle of the previous member, which we also talked about, where representative trade unions are those who have over 10% members in the employer, but that we have a fully clearly defined number of co-sindicators, that exactly 90% and 10% can not be the same. I find it interesting that individual representatives of the authorities, who have tabled the amendment in almost identical text as MPs of the SRS, should be abstained or voted against the amendment. It's something that I can't understand, what it's about, what it's about, let them lock up citizens, not us. Madam President, it would be nice if you would pay some respects to the MPs of the majority, but I will only tell you that I am asking that votes be voted on on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you have not given the right to the replica of Natasha Jovanovic, and then to put the amendment to the vote. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15548	In accordance with Article 98 paragraph 3 and Article 4, since I did not allow the requested replica of Ms Natasa Jovanovic, and since you requested the National Assembly to declare this, I would like to put to the vote a proposal that a breach of the Rules of Procedure, referred to in Article 98, was committed. For 64, against 117 abstentions, nine, a total of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision not to harm the Rules of Procedure in Rule 98. Anyone else answer for a word by amendment to article 149? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 51, against 139 abstentions, there were no nine, a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenkovic, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatovic and Meko Omerovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? (The applicant declares to withdraw the amendment. I find that this amendment has been withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to Article 151. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? He's got the word, Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15549	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to accept this amendment, because we would like to be a member of 151. The bill changes and reads: "The general collective contract and the special collective contract are directly applied and committed (refers) to all employees and employers". The reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia, or professional services, which is why the amendment is not accepted is that it must apply exclusively to members of individual employers' associations, who commit to it. I think that in this way we would give greater importance to the general collective agreements, and at the same time we would commit them to respecting what has been agreed and thus we would have workers who would be incomparably more protected than at this point, but I'm talking for free. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15550	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 125, the abstentioned were not voted 21, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 151 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Angelkovic and MP Dragan Tomic submitted. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ) The word was reported by MP Toma Busetic as representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15551	Here, for who knows which time, we SPS MPs insist on the obligation of a collective agreement, but it is not worth it, the minister does not accept. Simply, a few days ago on a local television, the minister said it was desirable to adopt this law, because we're going to get $80 million to help. I don't know from whom, whether of the Western governments, whether of the IMF, the World Bank, but I want to say something that is very important and that the MPs of the DOS need to know. During his time, Lech Valens came to America in 1990 and requested a $10 billion loan at the American Congress and received 100 million. Of course, he was welcomed with great applause and ovations. He didn't get nearly as much as he wanted, or he got 1%. I mean, don't expect much from the IMF loan, because these loans are very unfavourable. For example, countries such as Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary received significant US loans through the IMF. However, the foreign debt of these countries is now about 110 billion dollars. By 2003, that debt would be 130 billion dollars. One third, and in some countries 1/2 of the national income goes to interest settlement only, while the principals remain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15552	Mr. Bushettic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15553	It's a similar situation with some other countries where we have liberal capitalism, like Argentina. In Argentina, there is now an external debt of 110 billion dollars, and interest is a billion and a half a year. Earlier in the SFRJ Assembly in the 1970s, loans from the IMF were found to be unfavourable and not to be accepted at all costs. So we recommend - not at all cost to make such laws, to get some loans that are unfavourable or some minimum aid, which is no use.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15554	National MP Zoran Angelkovic, who submitted the amendment to Article 151, withdrew the amendment. I find the amendment of MP Zoran Angelkovic has been withdrawn. Is anyone else answering for the Dragan Tomic amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 131, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted the amendment to Article 154. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 128, there are no abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 158th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that Serbian radicals have submitted to Article 158 is our consistent commitment, as well as to amendments that referred to Article 136 and Article 145, to delete from this article the words "units of territorial autonomy and local self-government". To the truth, this is only about the publication of a collective contract: "Collective contract concluded for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the territorial autonomy unit and local self-government is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and "The way other collective agreements are published is determined by those collective agreements". We are only in favour of collective agreements that are concluded at the level of the entire Republic, so first of all, for the border, when it comes to special collective agreements, and not for defiling on the territorial principle. From the explanations I gave during the interpretation of the previous amendment to Article 145, I consider this to be just one of the ways of instrumentalising the union. Moreover, in the light of the bill's proposal, there is nothing about this article (and I have noticed, not only for this member) and therefore I draw attention to the Government that the reasoning that goes with the bill is not a mere form that the law could be included in the agenda at all, but should be an argument for each of the proposed members, so that we, MPs, know what the motioner wants to achieve by a provision. For this reason, I insist and ask the Government to take seriously in the future the reasoning that goes with the law and not to underestimate us in this way, that the reasons it gives only to members she likes and that individual members of the law remain completely without an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15556	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 134 abstention one, did not vote 10, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 161st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 166. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 138, there are no abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petric to Article 166. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He does.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15557	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, the SPS has submitted an amendment to Article 166. Proposal for this law, which provides fines for violations committed by employers. In addition, Article 103 stipulates that an employer may terminate a working relationship with an employee when the need to carry out a particular job ceases, as a result of technological, economic and organisational changes. It is further said that an employer on these jobs cannot hire another person within three months. It is also stated in the same article that if the need arises, however, for the employer to receive workers on these jobs and before the end of three months, the advantage of establishing a working relationship is the worker who broke the working relationship due to these organisational changes. The bill does not stipulate anywhere that the employer should suffer certain consequences if he does not comply with these legal provisions. So, the worker is going to leave himself to the employer's will. If there is no good will of the employer, the worker can only seek the protection of the labour inspector or the court, and in the event that the law guarantees him the right to have the privilege of getting the job back. For harassing workers and robbing the thresholds of inspection and court, the employer is not intended to suffer any consequences. I really don't get it. It is not logical that the Government does not propose adequate protection for both workers and employers. Apparently, this is where the employer wants to be privileged. The amendment proposed that at least a criminal sentence be extended for the employer, if he does not respect the already adopted provision that the priority in employment within three months on the same jobs has a worker who has lost his job due to organisational changes. It is odd that the government's argument that an employer should not be penalised, because after the worker's report, the labour inspector will order the employer to return him to work, and only if he is not returned to the inspector's solution after that, will the employer be punished. Indeed, this is illogical, and I think it would be appropriate for the amendment to be accepted and the responsibility of the employer is assumed, if it does not respect already adopted legal provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15558	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word is Mr. Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we should support this amendment by MP Radojko Petric, because it in some way strengthens the employer's responsibility, which is good. However, SPS MPs will vote against this law, as the law reduces workers' rights, reduces severances, reduces paid leave, reduces annual holidays, on redundancies, on the earning of employers themselves, on firing as well. The summary of this law is that large powers are given to the employer, and workers' rights are minimal. When it comes to the accusations we heard during today's session that a bad situation has been found in Serbia, I would say to the authorities that the situation is much worse now -- production is worse than in the time of our government, unemployment is even higher, since DOS's arrival in power we have an additional 100,000 people who have lost their jobs. Inflation is, you say, 40%, however, electricity is 500 percent expensive, basic life supplies 300-400%. Only if we were to calculate outboard engines, buses, shoelaces and toothbrushes, then we'd get to that 40% inflation. The external trade deficit is large, with Slovenia alone, the deficit is $100 million. (President: Mr Bushettic, please return to the amendment to Article 166.) That's how you got the word. In the end, I just want to say - don't accuse us of wars, we're not guilty, we're all forced. It's all true what our President Slobodan Milosevic was saying yesterday in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15560	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15561	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, every time I go out for a pay phone, some mention some criminals. I don't know why or where they need it. I'm not afraid of worse criminals than those, if there are. I don't know, maybe you're counting on them to threaten or I don't know what to do. The SRS parliamentary group will support this amendment because we believe, above all, that the government's explanation of the powers of the labour inspectors is not in place, especially since at least somehow more insurance will be provided and greater security for employees who have stopped working if this amendment is accepted. Now, at the end of the debate in detail on the Labour Act, I'd say we had a chance to break this bad law. It's obvious that there have been different arrangements, for us in the SRS unclear, but it doesn't matter what kind of agreements they are, and it's none of our business how they are together again, all those who were opposing the sides until yesterday. It's their thing, they have the right to do it. We do not grieve for this, however, that is what we look forward to. We think it's good for everyone to be in one place. As far as the SRS parliamentary groups are concerned, I am obliged to say - everything that we have accepted as an agreement, as an agreement with union representatives, we have respected in the National Assembly, we have fought for each of our amendments, we have fought for the amendments of some others, which we considered to be correcting. We in this game of yours, in your store, will not participate. It seems to me that the SRS parliamentary group under this law has shown full principle, not wanting to interfere with all the union struggles, but also proved to us the bad weather ahead and how severe and catastrophic consequences this law will cause.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15562	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting this amendment to the vote on Article 166. For 68, against 126, a abstentioned one, was not voted on by 8, a total of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Bratislav Djuric to article 180. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since I have not received a report from the Legislative Committee, it is my duty to reiterate the vote on the amendment to Article 60, which was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. The debate is over. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 60 submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. For 53, against 143, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment to Article 60. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the draft law on working in general. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 146, against 41, with no abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on work in general. Since the National Assembly adopted the draft law on work in general, I note that, when preparing the Law to be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", the legislative committee's proposals concerning the legal and technical redistribution will be included in the text of the law. 18. Paragraph 3; 26. item 1; 38. item 1; 87. item 1; 103. and 126. paragraphs 1, which are contained in the report of the Legislative Committee agreed by the proposing representative at the session of the Legislative Committee and were also accepted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. (The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed a bill on overall work at 13.55 p.m. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into MPs' units to determine if we have a quorum to resume the session. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR THE COMMUNITY OF THE PRODUCTION AND TRANSPORT OF DUVAN AND DUVANICAL PRODUCTS You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by a group of 40 MPs of the DOS Group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - Democratic Party of Serbia. I remind you, according to Article 157(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The total time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - two hours and seven minutes; the DOS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - DSS - 54 minutes; the parliamentary group of the SPS - 44 minutes; the SRS parliamentary group - 27 minutes; the SSJ - 16 minutes; the DoS - New Serbia - 9 minutes; the DOS parliamentary group - the League of Social Democrats and the League for the Shumadija - 8 minutes and the DOS parliamentary group - the reformists of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party - 7 minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer, or the Proposer's representative, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a representative of the promoter, Mr Dragan Marsicanin, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15564	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, the DSS parliamentary group has proposed the formation of this polling committee to face several facts that you, as well as the public, are familiar with. Those reasons are listed in the proposal, and you're going to let me read that part, I don't suppose you're all familiar with what's in it. Therefore, it is the tasks of the polling committee: it should look at the situation in the area of production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products; to determine whether there are reasons for giving an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the Regulation on the conditions and method of accounting for public revenues, contained and how to keep records for the transport of goods from the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, which was brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 48/01; and to take into account the effects of the application of that Regulation. Then, to determine how much the budgets of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia have been damaged by the existence of illegal trade, i.e. by the act and inaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to establish facts relating to the claims made in domestic and foreign press concerning illegal tobacco and tobacco products. Of course, the survey committee, in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, would submit an appropriate report to the National Assembly and propose the adoption of concrete acts, if necessary. Why did the Democratic Party of Serbia offer and propose the formation of this polling committee? The fact is that in three countries this problem is being considered: under the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; Montenegro has long been under discussion and a polling committee has been formed, for the same reasons as here; there is a very strict debate in the English Parliament on illegal tobacco trade and tobacco products. Our polling committee should come from texts published in the world's most prominent magazines -- one of them is the Financial Times, in that list, the government of the Republic of Serbia announces tenders for the sale of enterprises -- which contain very concrete allegations and very sharp assessments of the involvement of Serbian authorities with organised crime in trade or tobacco smuggling. These estimates were also presented in the "National" and in a number of domestic journals. The assessment was also confirmed by a respected member of the G17 Plus Group, Mr Nebojsa Medojevic, who stressed the fact that more than 500 foreign cigarettes were imported illegally into Serbia this year alone. As we talk on the annual level about illegal trade, about smuggling, which is worth about 450 million German marks, this is total tobacco traffic over one year, so far we have completely different official information from the state authorities on the percentage of illegal cigarettes on the domestic market: the government of the Republic of Serbia is behind the MIP's claim that it is about 17% and that in terms of organised crime in the area of tobacco smuggling, we are at the level of organised crime in other countries. On the other hand, we have official data that illegal tobacco trade -- cigarette smuggling -- accounts for 30% of the total domestic tobacco traffic, and then we're saying that 150 million German marks are turned annually through illegal flows; that it's about what order of size we're talking about here and what we're actually talking about. We have very unpleasant texts published in the lists that in the countries where they go out, every complaint of those who are slandered in the text, would bear very harsh sanctions. No reactions by Mr Djindjic, by the Serbian government and the government's representatives mentioned in the text, were found. No one mentioned in these texts filed a lawsuit against the Financial Times; it kind of raises additional questions, and any reasonable, even if my sense of responsibility, would take such a legal step back. Besides, we have new claims, first of all from "Nacional" journalists, that Mr. Djindjic is in close relations with the many times mentioned Mr. Sutotic; it says he has been in direct contact several times and has met with him in New York, which he has evidence of. All of this, of course, we MPs and parties, as political entities, can be used as evidence, because we are not authorized to do any investigative work. The National Assembly can, by forming a survey board, make an attempt to determine the situation in this area and protect the state, because its representatives are on the verge of these texts. The state, whose reputation is lurking in front of the international community, in front of international financial institutions and foreign investors, needs to provide evidence that this is not about a state directly involved in criminal activities, organised crime. It's something we owe as MPs, even if we try, to do. I suppose this proposal should remove any shadow of doubt from the representatives of the state; to take that step and examine the things that are being opened in public, which are being talked about in public, what the newspaper is writing, what the foreign public is talking about; the topic, we have seen, unfortunately in Montenegro, has raised very serious questions. Let's do it right here. That's one aspect of what we're talking about here today. The second is the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia has brought, following the assurance of the proposings of an unconstitutional, illegal regulation, which allows the import of cigarettes without excise stamps into the SRJ, i.e. Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. Regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia allow transit of cigarettes without an excise stamp, meaning no origin, so illegal goods. When you combine it with the fact that there are about 30% or 150 million marks of illegally imported cigarettes on the market, then the question is, what is the impact of these unconstitutional, illegal regulations on the fact that there is such a high percentage of illegal cigarettes on the market. Of course, there are other questions. The Committee of Auditors should also address them, especially in this aspect of the legality and constitutionality of these regulations. Without a doubt, this suggests that customs and foreign trade laws in the jurisdiction of the federal state, as well as the transit of goods to third countries, i.e. the transport of cigarettes, are regulated by customs law. It is clear that it is not possible to amend that law by means of a Republic regulation. And that's it? ) It's not that; it'll light up after the survey board, I can't tell you everything right now. We'll leave something for a surprise. In talks with government representatives, as this has already become a habit here, something undoubtedly illegal and unconstitutional, justice is made to the wholeness. So, it was celibate to collect some revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget; we will probably listen most to it as an argument for the adoption of these regulations. In order to obtain, for example, 10 or 15 million marks, it takes these illegal and non-constitutional regulations to be passed; they will take some time; then we will pass the tobacco law, so we will try to forget that we have legalized smuggling over a year. If at this time the state had painted cigarettes, which entered Kosovo and Metohija through the customs crossings of SRJ, it is clear that the revenues for the state would have been much higher. Now these cigarettes, even though imported into the SRJ area, are not painted. In particular, they are subject to a specific tax under the regulation. The answer needs to be asked: and why is that? As if it were goods without excise stamps, as if it were goods without origin. Such goods, under federal law, cannot be introduced into the SRJ, because this would mean that the state legalises cigarette smuggling. Since it is not possible to introduce and design such goods, the owner of such cigarettes, thanks to the government of Serbia's transit regulations, is transferring these cigarettes to the Kosovo and Metohija areas. It should be noted that, under federal customs law, cigarettes without excise stamps cannot cross the territory of the SRJ, even when they go to another foreign country. (Borislav Novakovic, from the post: What else does it say? Now you'll hear. Since the trade in cigarettes without excise stamps is already in itself, for these reasons that I have stated, completely problematic, it is necessary that the committee of inquiry, in line with the opportunities available, check that such a job is documented. First, it is necessary to look at customs declarations for cigarettes transiting to Kosovo and Metohija under the Government of Serbia's regulation. There is evidence that two key headings on these declarations are inscribed to the consignor - the importer and the recipient - the importer remained empty. While our customs declarations leave out the fill-in of these most important items, they are thus listed in an international paper accompanying this transit and these sections are filled, with a clear indication that the importer is from Kosovo and Metohija. Examples of these customs declarations, which are available to me, will be provided as the basis for this survey committee's work. They can further analyze and establish what is happening in this area. Since there are indications that customs declarations in their essential elements are irregular, it can be assumed that these cigarettes have not yet entered Kosovo and Metohija; or that they have entered, so that they have returned to Serbia on certain checkpoints and certain channels. In any case, whether they stayed in Kosovo and Metohija, whether they returned to Serbia, it is an organised business, which organises either the mafia in Kosovo and Methya or the mafia in Serbia. It is a job that cannot be organised without full co-operation with today's government in Serbia, according to G17 Plus. Talk to Mr. Medojevic, don't yell at me - in, these are texts in the paper that are lost without any reaction. It is the polling committee's duty to clarify these things and remove what could pose a serious obstacle to the further reform process in Serbia, because Serbia cannot, with the image of a country where there is a suspicion that organised crime is directly related to the authorities, pour confidence on foreign investors. Perhaps, after all, there is a reason why foreign investors have so far not invested a single dollar. (From the hall: We welcome you to the radicals. Besides the rest, of course. So you have to answer a lot of questions. The Committee of Auditors, we believe, would not work for a short period of time. He would have to seek and answer the following questions from the competent authorities: where cigarettes are purchased without excise stamps; how they are paid, cash or via an account; whether there are export declarations from the exporting country; whether these declarations have been certified by the customs administration of the exporting country; how the transport, or the forwarder is paid; whether the competent authorities have checked the listed company from Slovenia that acts as a seller and whether these declarations have been verified as imported and paid for cigarettes; how this goods have been transited to the SRJ, why and what are the reasons why the company from Pristina, which is an importer of these cigarettes, employs carriers from Serbia and Republika Srpska to transport goods, not carriers from Kosovo and Metohija. A request may also be made to UNMIK to look at the importer's business books. I will leave the Secretary of the National Assembly with the documentation of the customs declaration, which proves that these documents are invalid. I will draw attention to just some unusual details, that, for example, the "Partner" produced in Macedonia, as is known to every smoker, including myself, so I cough behind this speaker, is not importing into the territory of Kosovo and Metohija from Macedonia, but via Republika Srpska and through Montenegro, and it is crossing some unusual borders. The Committee must also deal with such illogicalities - why, instead of transporting 50 km, transporting 1,050 km; why these goods are imported in such an unusual way and, at the very least, what is the damage to the SRJ budget due to this organised operation. I think this is one of the very constructive proposals, a proposal that cannot, in my deep confidence, challenge any MP who has until the reputation of the state has been preserved, because these texts, by opening these affairs abroad, have thrown a great shadow into today's power in Serbia. The shadow should be removed by the work of the survey committee and I ask the National Assembly to accept the DSS proposal on the establishment of the survey committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15565	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. The word came from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15566	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marsican, I agree that this is a constructive proposal, which would be much more comprehensive if, as president of the Assembly, you had used your responsibilities and opened these questions in accordance with your powers and according to your knowledge. True, if they're based on the writing of the Nationals or the Financial Times, then I'm afraid they're too insecure for this debate, but we have to respect them, given that they're the basis of this kind of initiative. I'll correct you, it's not about the Financial Times, it's about the German edition of the Financial Times, which we don't publish, as the Republic Government, the tender, since it's about newspapers that have local character, although it's about what you mentioned more than serious. I would refer first of all to several important aspects of this kind of initiative, not trying to challenge your good motives. I don't mean to judge, but motives are certainly good, valid. Because no one in this society can dispute the existence of organised crime; no one in this society can dispute an organized crime segment concerning cigarette smuggling. Also, I don't think that anyone reasonable, even in this House, can challenge the kind of ambition that the Republic government, and hence the executive, and the indirect and legislative authority, has engaged in dealing with organised crime, and on a specific point of the agenda, by suppressing illegal flows of cigarette smuggling. I think we need to remove a few dilemmas here at the very beginning of this debate, in order for it to be exactly the way the Proposer's representative mentioned it. So constructive. It would be good for the DSS, which launched this initiative, to first, within its party, find an answer to the question it raised here in parliament. This will not be difficult for you, given that the Regulation, which is the basis of this initiative, is in fact a regulation signed by your party's vice-president and former vice-president of the Republic Government, Mr. Pradic. I believe it will also be difficult for you to answer your questions, if you are actually looking for such a kind of answer, within your party, since the Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible, the Ministry run by your man, Mr. Jovan Rankovic. He is the person responsible for the application of federal legislation and is the person responsible for the functioning of the Federal Customs Administration. As for the foundation of these regulations and the motives with which they have been initiated, I think no one well-intentioned, if they have, and I believe they do, can dispute the common conclusions of the Republic and the Federal Government, which preceded the introduction of these regulations. I will remind you, and I will quote only one of the conclusions, following a session held on 23 May 2001, which was brought together by the Federal and Republic Government, with regard to the taking of concrete measures to achieve the role of the state authorities of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, particularly in the domain of taxes, customs and trade in goods. So, given that a certain suspicion has been raised over the good intentions of the Republic government, which in line with these conclusions has been reached by the regulation, signed by your vice-president, it would be good to discuss this initiative with the president of your party and the president of the SRJ, who then entrusted the federal finance minister with the mandate of the federal prime minister, Mr Pesic, who again signed an agreement with UNMIK. On this basis, the Republic government was obliged to regulate the area of trade in excise goods, including the area of tobacco trade, by the regulation. So, in fact, certain institutional issues have been raised, which are serious, but which can get their answers without forming a survey board, within the framework of one party, the DSS, given that the key actors of this policy are actually people who originate from that party. Mr. Jovan Rankovic, as federal finance minister; Mr. Pradic, as the recently vice-president of the Republic government and the person who signed the Regulation; Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Pesic, since they accepted an agreement with UNMIK, based on which the Republic government at a joint session with the federal government has adopted a proposal to regulate the area of trade in excise goods in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. As for Mr Djindjic's role in the aforementioned actions, it is clear that it is undeniable and large, but that it cannot be unilaterally interpreted, which is the proposal and attitude of those who launched this initiative and who actually had a much easier way to challenge the Republic government. You don't have to go to a street salesman and buy a National to find arguments to challenge the Republic government. A lot has been said from this assembly pay phone. The DSS would have been, in fact, easier if it had collected 20 signatures instead of 45, as far as this initiative is concerned, and launched an initiative to replace the Republic Government. So it's a legitimate process, but I don't think it would diminish the party's responsibility, not just because it created, along with its other partners, in one government and another, this kind of financial policy, but because it's trying to sanction certain political defeats that preceded our debate today. Therefore, all members of the DSS supported this Regulation at the meetings of the Republic Government, at which the said Regulations were considered and adopted. Here I have the minutes from the session held on 20 February, 6 March and 3 August 2001. The sessions were held in full composition and were attended by both Mr Joksimovic and Mr Pradic, therefore representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who, along with all other members of the government, supported this kind of policy. It is clear that, in the meantime, the circumstances have changed, I think that the Assembly should assess the extent to which they were actually changing and whether the representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia were then taking the right policy or leading it today. If they were covering up facts at the time, then their responsibility is much greater than that that kind of initiative today, because it's actually a policy of double standards to which direct damage is done. I don't think that's what this is about. I think, in fact, on the basis of information from the Ministry of Finance, it is very clear that the regulations have been passed under extraordinary circumstances, in circumstances in which the law has not regulated a very serious segment of our economic life. Since you are also familiar with the fact that there is a package of anti-corruption laws in the assembly procedure, and above all I mean the law on public procurement and the law on tobacco, it is also clear that the government's legislative activity is also trying to solve inherited problems. I don't want to, say, accuse representatives of today's opposition that they are responsible for the failure of that segment of the state apparatus during the year 2000. There have been a lot of challenges and I don't think it was really possible to deal with fully organized crime, but also no one based on arguments can challenge the success of a republican and federal administration in this segment of our lives. If anyone has a comment, then that remark must be of different character and cannot be based on writing a boulevard list. I think it's just as unserious as calling for some other texts in that same boulevard list, which is again, for example, a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and I think it's beneath the honor of this Parliament to build a policy, which is as serious as the one we're talking about today, that kind of argument. If we want to discuss the fiscal results of the reduction in cigarette smuggling, then from June to August 2001, and not throughout the year, as Mr. Marsicanin misrepresented it, there was a collection of excise duty from cigarettes on average of 391 billion dinars per month. If this trend were to be maintained by the end of the year, the annual excise charge would be 4.7 billion dinars, making up 83% of the maximum excise income capacity, which is 5.7 billion dinars. Repeat: In the period June - August 2001, the actual collection of excise duties from cigarettes was on average 391 million per month. If this trend were to be maintained by the end of the year, the collection of excise duties at an annual level would be 4.7 billion dinars. So with this kind of analysis, we can draw a few conclusions. First, that the Democratic Party of Serbia is some issues, instead of asking within its own party, it has asked within Parliament. Not because she did not have the courage to ask these questions within her own party, but because she might have expected us to keep quiet some facts, the facts we just mentioned: which is that the inevitable role of the federal administration in the organized fight, the prevention and repression of crime and the smuggling of cigarettes is crucial in this segment of the federal administration is a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr Rankovic, who has been at the post for six months and who has not criticised the fiscal policy of the Republic government in a single word, nor criticised the said regulations, probably because it is clear to man that those regulations have been signed by members of his party. We can also enter into the analysis of the survey committee's tasks and the very structure of the survey board. The idea of control of the executive authority is good, it needs to be insisted and is needed at all times. Control can be carried out in exceptional circumstances by forming polling committees, but it can also be carried out through regular work of congregation working bodies, such as the Finance Committee. Not once in the past 10 months have representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia raised this kind of issue on the committee, nor have they tried to find answers to those questions. I think that the clear motives and restrictions that have followed this kind of policy and which may have partly caved, at the moment that the party is openly confronting the Democratic opposition to Serbia, but it is also a policy and something should not be condemned. What is controversial for the first time in all of this and what DOS will insist on is the composition and tasks of the polling committee. It is not a problem for DOS to form a survey board to see the situation in the area of tobacco production and transport and tobacco products, although it is clear that it can do so without any hesitation by the relevant assembly board. As for the initiative that the polling committee is supposed to implement on the second position of this proposal - "The Commission is tasked to determine whether there are reasons for giving an initiative to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality of the Regulation on the conditions and method of accounting of public revenues" - the former president of the Assembly, Mr Marsicanin, has said several times from this address that the Regulation is anti-constitutional and cannot, in itself, depend on the polling committee, whether the initiative will be launched or not, but is the Constitutional Court's task to launch the initiative. So it cannot be decided by the parliamentary majority in this assembly, but by the Constitutional Court the moment it is functional, and it will be functional when it is not subject to party obstructions. As for the third position, it is unacceptable for the DOS and we, unless it changes, will vote against the formation of a polling committee. It is really about the position, or task of the survey board to determine how much the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia budgets are damaged by the existence of illegal trade, i.e. by the act and inaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have a clear party policy of the Democratic Party of Serbia, but we cannot be expected to support such a finding. The Committee of Auditors has yet to begin its work, and after it is finished, it will be able to determine whether the Republic Government has damaged or done so, for example, the Federal Government or whether one and the other government, in possible and given circumstances, has given its maximum. So, there must be a reshaping of the third position of this initiative; and, finally, for us as politicians, it is unacceptable to deal with the fact that the claims made in the domestic and foreign press, concerning illegal tobacco and tobacco products, are being found. In fact, no methodology has been defined to determine these facts: whether this methodology is based on a study of the moral context of someone who is the creator of this type of information; or whether it is based on the bringing in of journalists and editors, who have published such a thing, to the competent republican authority that needs to determine the truthfulness of this; or perhaps the facts will remain beyond the reach of the survey board because the journalist and editor will protect the source of the information. I think this kind of inquisition policy towards the media is unacceptable and DOS cannot support such a thing. Finally, every survey committee must be an expression of the real situation in this House. The Democratic Party of Serbia, as part of the DOS, could have launched such an initiative in March, April, May, June, so in all those situations in which regulations have been adopted today, it criticises. This has not been done and, whether you want to admit it or not, you are today representing a parliamentary group that has 45 members and, according to that number of members, you can achieve your team within the committee of inquiry. The DOS insists on a different composition of the polling committee and if the proposer agrees on such a thing, so if we do not agree to these tasks that the proposing has demonstrated, and above all to the de facto finding of the Republic Government's guilt and the investigative actions in the media field, in order to determine the facts that would prove the credibility of writing "national" or, in which we have opened up the possibility of interpretation, there is a much more correct framework for solving such species, I would say, a misunderstanding. Of course, the Democratic Party of Serbia has its full right to choose the policy it will follow, but this kind of policy that we are attending today has its price. We said that price, and as far as we're concerned, it will have to be respected if the Democratic Party of Serbia is counting on representatives of the DOS parliamentary group on this survey board. I do not think, of course, that the arguments that could have been heard before this initiative was mentioned, which concerned the formation of polling committees on the case of extradition of Mr Stakic to The Hague tribunal, on the case of the arrest of Mr Milosevic, the extradition of Mr Milosevic, on the case of an affair with the late Momir Gavrilovic and the role of the SRJ President's cabinet in the affair. Therefore, DOS will not respond with the same arguments to such an incorrect policy, which is incorrect not because of the criticism of the Republic government, but because of the times and circumstances under which this criticism is being resorted, since it is clear that the regulations that have been adopted, the regulations that are in force for half a year or even 10 months in the case of this first regulation, Mr Justdić, i.e. that it is not about any effort to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, but about the search for a political profit of a concept that has been self-destructed and that I don't think this will do any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15567	The word has Mr. Michaels, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15568	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's just believe everything we've heard and everything will be fine. But let's start with the facts. The government of the Republic of Serbia, when we are already talking about the signing of these strong regulations, should be determined by the following: Regulations are signed by the Vice-Presidents of the Government as they come in order; not all vice-presidents of the Government are legal experts, doctors of science or lawyers; Mr Pradic, who signed the Regulation, is not a lawyer, he is an economist. But there, according to the Government Act, one fact that is very important: the legality of decisions taken by the Government concerns the Republic Secretariat for legislation. Look at the case, the secretary of the Republic Legislative Secretariat is Mrs. Biserka Zivkovic. We know, Mr. Jovanovic said it nicely, that the federal authorities have a responsibility for all of this. Of course, the Federal Interior Ministry, which co-operates with Interpol, should be responsible for what is happening and should co-operate with the republican ministry to prevent smuggling and organised crime. Look at the case, there's Minister Zoran Zivkovic. There seems to be a connection, but we don't want to talk about it. It means - as regards the legality of the regulations and decisions taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, only the jurisdiction of control and legality has a Republic Secretariat for legislation. It's so under the Government Act. In the government you have ministers who don't have a college, and we had this case today, you have ministers who have completed machine and technical sciences. So they don't have to know if the act passed is in accordance with the law. This is being taken into account by the Republic Secretariat of Legislative Affairs, and Mrs Zivkovic is the secretary of the secretariat and should have warned the government to adopt a regulation that is illegal or illegal. The government didn't get that notice. I can't say that there's a responsibility in the government, and Mr. Prime Minister is not a lawyer and it's not a responsibility on him, it's someone who's obliged to take care of his legality. We can't repay the government for bringing in an illegal or anti-constitutional act, because they don't have to take care of it, nor is it their job. If we're already talking about the responsibility of the federal finance minister, he's the finance minister for four months. Customs were transferred only four days ago to the federal finance ministry's jurisdiction. They were a special and separate section, and only four days ago, by decision of the federal government, customs were transferred to the federal finance ministry's full jurisdiction. I'm sure there'll be more order now than there was. What may have burned my ears in this situation, is that I immediately use this opportunity for political reckoning. Let's make a decision that will clear this country as well. I'm talking about the state here, because the government is the executive part of this Parliament, the parliaments that elected citizens. Let's clear up so we can go to reform without that mortgage that Serbia is a country where cigarette smuggling can be. (President: Time. We know that this is one of the biggest problems facing the European Union so far. The European Union has started a fierce fight against this type of organised crime, as billions and billions of marks and dollars are crisscrossed in Europe this way. That is why we believe that we need to take this issue seriously and responsibly, without any prejudge of political decisions or anything, because there really is no political decision in this case, but only to protect the citizens of Serbia from this finding that perhaps someone in Europe says we are European Colombia or whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15569	He's got the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15570	I am very pleased as a promoter of the first exposure we have heard here, because the exposure confirmed that the DOS parliamentary group, finding that there are facts about the existence of organised crime in Serbia, the fact that there is an organised smuggling of cigarettes, will support the proposal to set up a survey board. The fact that there are certain interferences in the text is also pointed out. I agree, in order to remove the cause for refusal of this proposal, that the words that really should not stand, which prejudge the final court of the polling committee that I propose to be formed, are deleted from the proposed text and that the part of the text on guilt for the conduct or inaction of the Republic Government is deleted. I think it will remove all possible leads to the rejection of this proposal. As a proposer, I accept these changes in the text. It is doubtless that after the first presentation, we have agreed that there are huge doubts, which stem from the fact that there are illegal tobacco traffic in the amount of tens of millions of marks. Of course, we disagree on responsibility, but that is why it is necessary to form this committee of inquiry. I would like to remind you that the DSS has opened this issue not now, not with current reasons, not at the time when the political crisis that should be addressed in Serbia is deepening, but several months earlier, when we have formally and writtenly requested that, according to the allegations we have raised as a party, the competent state authority - the interior ministry - act. Then we realized that the MIP, as an authorised state body, did not act. More than two or three months ago, we submitted a proposal to form this survey board. Therefore, any linking of the proposal to set up a polling committee with current political developments can only be done by someone who has no serious argument, but is trying to remove attention from the main issues of speech manipulation and extravagance. The point of the problem, which we agreed on, is that organised crime exists, is that tobacco is being smuggled into Serbia, it's hundreds of millions of marks and that the truth needs to be learned by the citizens of Serbia. It is possible to do so by forming a survey board. All possible differences in the text of the proposal will be easily agreed between representatives of the parliamentary groups and the proposings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15571	I'm sorry, just to give my proposal notice - there is an opportunity for you to withdraw the proposal or to stay on the proposal, since this is a unique search and there is no amendment. You can't accept amendments and change. So you can just stay on the proposal or withdraw the proposal. Therefore, changes in the course of the debate cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15572	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have requested a replica based on the wrong interpretation. Please assess whether I can get a replica on that basis, if I can't, I'll go back to the scene - Mr. Martian misread me about the support that will follow this kind of initiative if it is corrected. So it's not about the correction you mentioned, it's okay, but you neglected our insistence to rule out the truthfulness of the article in the foreign press, because we don't see what methodology we could determine the truthfulness of the article, let's say, in one boulevard list, what is "national" or what other way we could determine the truthfulness of the claims made in the domestic press, because that wasn't possible until now. I think we understand that journalists have the right to protect their sources and that there is no methodology, based on which the Survey Committee could now force someone to give that kind of information. Therefore, it is necessary to make a correction accepted by Mr. Martian, and I am grateful to him, but to accept the fourth task of the Committee of Auditors, as it says - "The Anketni board has a task: to establish the facts concerning the claims made in the domestic and foreign press concerning illegal tobacco and tobacco products". At the same time, it is necessary to correct the composition of this Survey Committee, in order to fully present the current relationship between parliamentary groups in the Republic of Parliament. I hope, finally, that Serbia is not a society where wives are not allowed to do a job and that Mr. Zivkovic is not less valuable because he has a wife who is a lawyer and who works as secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation. While I am president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, no one from our parliamentary group will degrade the values of the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, because his wife is an associate of some institute, a doctor of law, or works on some constitutional proposal. This is an example of flagrant disrespect, above all, of this parliament and non-culture which certainly cannot be supported by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15573	A proposaler's representative, Mr. Dragan Marsicanin, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15574	I'm not going to answer much more, so we can discuss some of the essentials at first, and then when we decide to see what we're going to do. I did not dispute that part of the exposure relating to the change in point 4. It is not necessary to close, in advance, the possibility of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts set out in the writing of respectable papers. The Committee of Auditors will either be able to do so or will not be able to determine it. He is therefore ordered by this congregation, in accordance with the powers established by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to try to do so. That's his job. He doesn't have to answer that. He will inform the National Assembly that he could not determine the facts unless he could determine the facts. Who says in advance that journalists will protect the sources? Please, at the invitation of the National Assembly of Montenegro, the author of the text was ready to give and give sources of data. Is that why we're trying to close this story? Please, those are facts. The survey committee in Montenegro exists. The journalist who presented the facts regarding Mr Djukanovic, which is why the Survey Committee was formed, agrees to give arguments and facts to the Survey Committee and that is something to bear in mind. Therefore, there is no claim that journalists will not provide data, and the Survey Committee is obliged to try to obtain that data. Please appreciate this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15575	Mr. Pelevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15576	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Party of Serbian Unity will support any proposal that leads to the establishment of control over the work of the executive government, that is, the work of the Serbian government. In line with this view of the Serbian Unity Party, we will support the fully proposed proposal by the Democratic Party of Serbia, to educate the Committee of Auditors to examine the state of transport and the production of tobacco and tobacco products, so long as a similar process has been conducted recently in the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro. Therefore, if we live in a common country, I see no reason why the same processes should not be opened, so does the debate in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I would be much more pleased if the Democratic Party of Serbia had submitted a motion to replace the Serbian government, because on the basis of the reasons given by Mr Marsican, there is quite enough reason to initiate the procedure for the Serbian government's replacement. If this is what the Democratic Party of Serbia's gentlemen really want, let them apply, the Serbian Unity Party will support it in a warm way and sign a request for the Serbian government's removal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15577	Thank you. The speaker of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Mr. Mihajlov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15578	If someone understood personally what I was saying, I had no intention of anyone - nor of the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, or of anyone else - to mention it personally; simply, I apologize to them this way, if they understood it. That's what we from the Democratic Party of Serbia said -- that we're not going to bring anything personal, so if someone understood it that way, this way to Mrs. Zivkovic and Mr. Zivkovic, I'm not going to mention it anymore. I think that's how it's supposed to be done in parliament, without mentioning it. What should be pointed out this time is that this committee has a task (and we agree) to delete the third point, if possible and if this is a condition to vote, because it indicates that it is a finding. We agree that this third point relating to how much the budgets of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia are damaged by this, will be deleted, but the proposal will certainly not be withdrawn from the procedure, because we believe that this proposal, which was submitted in September of this year, before the disagreements started and before we came into the parliamentary crisis in which we are today, submitted precisely to determine the facts relating to these allegations, and which are related to exactly what is burdening Serbia as a country which has embarked on building a legal and democratic state and legal order. That is why we believe that we should continue to form one such polling committee, and we should not hide behind petty procedural matters in order to vote against this committee and thus avoid facing the truth, and we ourselves have found, in more discussions, that there is organised crime in Serbia, and what is true, which we have not yet faced here, is that there is no organised fight against organised crime, what is the problem for the whole country. The point is that organized crime consumes the very substance of the state, that organized crime, if any, is followed by corruption. It is something that we as a state that goes through transition, and transition involves primarily building democratic legal institutions, a society that will not be corrupt and combating crime, must do. That's why we started this proposal at the beginning of September this year. This theme was put on the agenda two months ago, when this assembly began. So it has far preceded this whole thing that we have now simply, should not be seen as part of these events that we have at the moment of the parliamentary crisis that clearly exists in Serbia. We want to remove the mortgage that all Serbian citizens would take if it is established, or if it refuses to discuss this matter and form the Survey Committee. As far as writing foreign press is concerned, I also mention that the Guardian has written about this, not only is the German edition of the Financial Times, but it's also the Guardian, which you can say is boulevard, but it's one of the most prominent papers of that kind. That is why we do not consider that these allegations should be reviewed, but these allegations should in any case serve as a guideline in the conduct and operation of this survey committee. So, we in the Democratic Party of Serbia think we shouldn't, and we won't, withdraw this proposal from the agenda. We believe this will show how many care about Serbia not being what it was, and that is a country where tobacco, oil and everything else can be smuggled, but it is not the subject of the formation of this polling committee. We simply want to say that the new democratic authorities differ, that they are ready to fight organised crime, and that they have not only changed, but they want to change the system, that there is not only a change in government. We want to change the system, we want to introduce the right to one state, and that is why I think it is necessary to join the vote and the formation of this polling committee. What is also important to emphasise is that we expect cooperation, and I think that there will be, all governments in this country (and the Federal Government and the Republic Government) because it is the interest of the entire state, not only Serbia, but Yugoslavia, to stand in the way of organised crime and cigarette smuggling. That is why we have also insisted and we believe that this survey committee, which should be composed of representatives of all the political groups in this House, will determine how much this is possible, and come to the true truth that will take down this mortgage so that Serbia can become (I will use the term of one of my colleagues) or it has become European Colombia. We don't want it, we want Serbia to enter the Council of Europe, and in one due time and the European Union -- and Serbia that will be a country where cigarettes are smuggled, organised crime and corruption reigns, certainly cannot go through reforms because reforms are the opposite of what we're talking about, and that's why, to open the door to reforms, we need to put an end to organised crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15579	The word is Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group, followed by Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I brought here to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a pack of cigarettes, otherwise I'm not a smoker, but I bought it in a trade here in Belgrade, and there is no excise stamp (shows a pack of cigarettes). The state didn't get anything on this, and the state doesn't get anything in the most part. I'll tell you one thing that happens everywhere, and you can pretend you don't know that, that you don't understand. When you have one pack of cigarettes with excise stamps in your trades, you usually bring out a whole pack of cigarettes without excise stamps from a car or somewhere else. It's a big problem, and now if someone wants to say it's not a problem, that it's not in Serbia, that there's no crime, that everything works fantasticly -- maybe they can say it too! We've heard everything, like we're living in a virtual Serbia, a virtual reality, and every day there's a new world miracle. As the container from the European Union arrives, we are told that a great help has arrived and that we live much better. The SRS parliamentary group has a proposal, which we expect to receive support from the MPs, on the very education of the polling committee. We ask that all parliamentary groups be represented equally, not proportionately. We consider it the best possible way to reflect the essence of the existence and functioning of the committees, because if we didn't want the committee of inquiry, we could have held a debate with the MPs in the National Assembly, that they themselves were making decisions about it, well, then it would be significant how many MPs there are. I don't know how many there are now, there were at the beginning of four parliamentary groups, and now there are 7, 8 or 9, but from each parliamentary group to be one representative, we think that would be the best solution in forming such a polling committee. As far as the SRS is concerned, our representative on the polling committee, if a decision is made on the education of the Survey Committee, will be Natasa Jovanovic. (Glass from the O.R.: Smoker.) ) Namely, we are facing a few facts here. I would ask you to courteous MPs who earn when I said it would be Natasha Jovanovic, and the man threw that she was a smoker. I would ask you to break up with such insolences, Mr. Radosavljevic, that you never say that to the MP again, don't be naive not to know, you said that, and that's what everyone in the National Assembly has heard and I ask you to leave that sort of thing somewhere else! So you can behave in your home, not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party supports a request for the establishment of a polling committee due to facts (which is not writing "Gardiana", "The Financial Times", or another list), because of what is happening in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, which is the adoption of the regulations. I don't want to get into who signed it, and the regulation I have on me was signed by Nebojsa Covic. The regulation says, among other things, a regulation on the conditions and method of calculating public revenues, contained and how to keep records for the transport of goods from the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Article 4 published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, Belgrade, 6 August 2001, says the deposit, i.e. the bank guarantee referred to in Article 2 of Article 1 of this Regulation, is not in place; item 3 for goods that are referred from the territory of the Republic of Montenegro to the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija via the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Article 5(2) states - the tax referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be charged and paid at a rate of 5% on the basis of the value of the goods established under customs regulations. The following position says - especially in addition to the fee set out in Article 2 of this article for the reference of oil and cigarette derivatives, a fee of 168,000 dinars is paid in foreign currency equivalent to a tanker, or on a boot. Now, a little math, let's see how and who loses it, and how many countries lose it that way. By the time the regulation was adopted, let's say all goods from Montenegro (before the entry into force) went through the Rožaja-Kula crossings, there was a double-higher tax, UNMIK charged for a tank of 13,800 German marks. Today at the crossings, two customs checkpoints for the crossing to Kosovo and Metohija near Raška - Rudnicai Ribarić - Brnjak pass tens of helmets and tanks daily; it is paid by 5,000 marks, that is the tariff for oil, and 7,000 marks for gasoline. In all this, it is possible to pay less if you bargain with people on the spot and if a particular racket is paid. Let's see now how many states are losing -- the tax paid by 168,000 dinars (that's 5,600 German marks) is the real value of excises, customs and taxes, on average about a million and a half (which is about 50,000 German marks somewhere) so that the state charges, if you calculate it well and make good proportions, all around 11% of your incomes. I'm talking about this second part where the state has no control and no stamps. They are, I'm not talking about whether or not they are, and as far as they're against the constitutional and illegal regulations, it doesn't take anyone's initiative, and it wouldn't be necessary for us to have a Constitutional Court like we don't, and as obviously no one's thinking of forming it, because half of the laws that are passed have nothing to do with it. I'd like to say something that's been written a lot and talked about in public. Obviously, not much has been proven, no intention of defending anyone or anyone I'm talking about. At the time, we all "knowed" (this under the pretext) that the cigarette market in Serbia was managed by Marko Milosevic. Everyone said, "Yes, it's him, he's the one holding it, he's the one controlling it." I've never heard of any criminal charges being filed against him for that, or anything. Today we have, and that is why it is very important to discuss it, to write about individual media, and it would be good to find that it is not true -- it would be good to say that it is not true -- writing about the direct involvement of the Serbian government and Serbian authorities in organised crime of cigarette smuggling. The names Stanko Sutotic -- Canet, the largest Balkan mobster, are mentioned, at least, as they say, by Zoran Djindjic of the Prime Minister and mention some other names, less significant people. To make the situation even more interesting: three days ago, just when Mr. Sirtaki and Suvlaki returned from Thessaloniki to vote later, at that moment in Thessaloniki, a boat was caught or, I don't know, a tanker, whatever. They said it was the largest cigarette smuggling in the Balkans, involving some people from Croatia and SRJ. So it's impossible that the whole story is without any basis. Let's see who these people are, see if anyone's involved by a representative of the government or not. It's best he didn't. It's best he didn't. Let's see if that's true. Let's see if the Committee of Auditors examines it. Mr. Jovanovic is right when he says -- there can be no prior conviction. So we suggest the following thing: to say whether, then, first we ask whether the budgets are damaged, and then, of course, if they are found to be, we go with the question -- how much. It would be a real issue in what the DSS parliamentary group has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for adoption. That would be something that, I think, could best be determined by the tasks and objectives of forming such an Survey Committee. The SRS parliamentary group believes that since it is working,... I don't know if most citizens know this, but it's important to point out that the revenue from cigarettes for the country may be the most important revenue. That's the biggest income. You can't get as much money from anything as you can from cigarettes and oil. That's why it's most important, to have it under strict and direct control, to know what's going on, no one can go in without a paid excise, as is the case here, as is the case in any tract you're going to go to and where you're going to be able to buy any pack of cigarettes. That's something Serbia needs to get rid of. Let's see, for all this calculation that we've done -- let's see where it is, where it's hiding, who's responsible, if it's responsible, and who's going to be carrying political and legal consequences, of course. Someone has to answer for that. If, of course, that's not true, then let's see how, why, and how those stories followed. But I remind you of something that is the facts of what we've presented; data related to regulations, stories related to individual transitions, what happens, and where it happens, and how it happens. It's facts, there's no lie, and it's just a question of whether the state wants to know if anyone from the state wants to hear it or just doesn't want to hear it. So, the SRS will vote in favour of forming the Survey Committee. We ask that representation be not proportionate to the number of MPs. We won't get anything here, but it's normal and it's understood when you have the formation of a survey board, because we're only looking for one member of 10, if I'm not mistaken. Only one member, but not to make that decision -- I have 50 MPs, and I have 30 MPs, but to decide with arguments, facts, the papers we have. I have a huge grudge against the DSS parliamentary group, so why didn't you give us those customs declarations in the material? You kept the customs declarations for your discussion, and we didn't get a customs declaration that could confirm that story. We know that through Raška imports "partner", through Raška, which means that it goes over a thousand kilometers around - around, and to whom and for whose interests, we don't know, but you had to put it in materials. This would be one of the key evidence in the debate in your proposal. I do not want, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to enter into the internal coalition and internal conflicts between the DOS parties, who is the first to whom he said so, whose minister approved it, whose minister did not approve it. We're not particularly interested in that. I don't know why everyone apologizes to the couple Zivkovic, or anyone, after all, what's so terrible. Why so many apologies, or I don't know what. He can do whatever his wife wants, at any other job, and not just be in politics and depend on how he behaves. Nor did the wife of Vojislav Kostunica, in the far line. That's the SRS' position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15581	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15582	Dear People's MPs, what Mr. Vukic said earlier, that I allegedly threw some insult to an SRS MP is something that doesn't stand and isn't true. I didn't throw it away for a second. I especially appreciate that even I like the MPs of the SRS, because they understand everything. I, at least for that reason, respect them. I do not allow MPs of the SRS to give me moral lectures, to me or to the MPs of the DS, or to the MPs of the DOS. They at least have the right to tell us and teach us morals. I come from a decent family, from Kragujevac, thank my parents for raising me the way I really should be. I'm proud of my parents, and I don't let anyone from the SRS, me or my colleagues, give me moral lectures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15583	A proposaling representative shall report on the matter. (Alexander Vukic: By Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I once pointed to Article 102. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I made one mistake from the assembly pay phone. I was telling the truth, that's exactly what someone said I wasn't telling the truth, but that it could be interpreted differently. That's when I swore to the child. I made a mistake, I won't do it. You're lying, Mr. Radosavljevic, you said you said that about Natasha Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15585	Mr. Wolf, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, you have no right now...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15586	I have both father and mother, they raised me, I didn't lie like that, and that's what all the MPs around you heard. Don't play the moral hero here from the pay phone. You're capable of saying anything. This isn't your first time. I'm not giving you a moral sermon...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15587	Sir, Wolfie, I'm warning you that you need to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'll give you a measure of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15588	I'll let you throw it away, but don't throw it to the ladies again, will you tell me again? Will you ask for money again?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15589	I warn you not to speak in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15590	You want me to get out of my pocket and leave you the money right now. How much do you need?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15591	Not now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15592	How much money do you need to get out of my pocket, see how much I have? (Employer Vukic puts the money table in front of the president. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15593	Mr. Wolfie, you really want me to give you a warning? On the basis of Member of the 103rd National MP Alexander Vukic, I pronounce... Let me see, you already have one chance. This is your first warning. You won't give me... It's a second warning to you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Mr. Dragan Marsicanin, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the most important thing that I suggest is that this National Assembly does everything possible to come up with a full truth about something that represents a serious problem of this country, to discuss all the issues that arise from the facts that we've been talking about here today. I suggest, because of Mr. Jovanovic's exposure to Mr. Vukic, that we do everything we can to remove the formal interference to accept the proposal. I propose that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs. Micic, take a break, gather the presidents of the parliamentary groups and try to reach an agreement on the text and procedure of this proposal. Unless possible, under the Rules of Procedure, amend the text, it is possible to find appropriate solutions to ensure that this National Assembly accepts the formation of the Committee of Auditors, which, regardless of what the text of the proposal says, would make an effort, in accordance with its powers, to remove the questions that are open here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15595	Mr. Martian, I said once, so there's a possibility that only you, or you can withdraw the proposal, or you can stay the same, because we can't change during the session, but I can accept your proposal to take a break, to agree on it. I'm setting a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-12-0.u15596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the consultation of the parliamentary groups is under way, and the working hours are up, we will continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
