ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. Before we move to work, please remind ourselves that during the period between the previous and this session, tragic events took place: - in a car accident our colleague, MP Maja Marcicevic-Tasic, head of the cabinet of the Foreign Minister and member of the Civilian Union of Serbia; - after a serious illness, our colleague, MP Costa Nikolic, member of the Democratic Party of Serbia, passed away; - in events in the south, Serbian terrorists killed three members of the Yugoslav Army: Vukajla Lazarevic, first-class leader, Dejan Pavlovic, soldier by contract and Milet Janadi, civil person in service in the Yugoslav Army, as well as one member of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, Stanko Miladinović. After that, we will be reminded, by accident in the vicinity of Presevo, two soldiers were killed -- Bojan Zivanovic of Indjija and Zarko Ostojic of Koseric. I invite you to pay our respects to the deceased MPs and members of the Yugoslav Army and the Ministry of the Interior for a minute of silence. May their eternal glory be, and thank you! Praise them! I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 133 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. I am informing you of the absence of the MPs of the people. I approved the absence of the following MPs: Dragan Sutanovac, Marko Đurić, Srđa Popovic, Dragan Pavlovic, Vladan Jovičić, Slavoljub Matic, Radomir Naumov, Muja Mukovic, Nebojsa Lekovic, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Dusan Cvetkovic, Borislav Novakovic, Predrag Stojanović, Mirko Rosic, Vlasimirovic, Dragan Milentijevic. The last four MPs reported their absence in part, up to 15 hours. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers, Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Before we move on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions, I would like to remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly is scheduled to work until 7:30. We plan a break around 14 hours and a continuation of work tomorrow at 10 o'clock (votes - it's a holiday).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1797	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it's an extremely good custom, which is being introduced today, that we know clearly how long we're working. It is good that at the beginning of the session we know that we are working until 19.30 and that we finally know that the break will be at 14 o'clock, because all parliamentary groups should carry out appropriate consultations and coordination. However, tomorrow is the day of statehood of the Republic of Serbia, and at least we MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should surely respect that holiday. There's no problem working, but I suggest it still be respected on this side tomorrow as a holiday for the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1798	Of course, all MPs respect the applicable laws and holidays, until these laws and holidays are changed in accordance with the Constitution and the law. But we also know well that the days of national holidays can be done and that only creates certain financial obligations, additional fees for employees. If I've understood you correctly, let's just say that tomorrow, on the day of a valid national holiday, we'll work. I'd like to say that by voting. Please make it clear that we are voting on whether or not we will be in session tomorrow (the ambassadors have joined the vote). For 127, against 26, there were no abstentions, 14 MPs did not vote, a total of 167 were present. I find that we have made a decision that we will work tomorrow and that the session will continue at the beginning of tomorrow at 10 o'clock. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You received a minutes from the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 12, 13 and 14 February 2001. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I am voting on the minutes of the February 12th, 13th and 14th 2001 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 16, a total of 170 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly unanimously and without objections adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 12, 13 and 14 February 2001. You were presented the minutes of the February 15th 2001 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Fourth Extraordinary Session. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since it is not available, I am voting on the minutes of the February 15th 2001 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Fourth Extraordinary Session. We have a quorum. I find that 137 votes against no one with abstentions voted 11. A total of 148 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 15 February 2001, without objections. You were presented the minutes of the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 27 and 28 February 2001. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I am voting on the minutes of the February 27th and 28th of 2001 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have a quorum. I find that 158 against no one with abstentions voted 8. A total of 166 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 27 and 28 February 2001, without objections. This is how we adopted the minutes from the previous sessions. I would like to inform you of the termination of the mandate of the Members of Parliament. You received a letter from the parliamentary group president of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, Cedomir Jovanovic, informing the National Assembly that MPs Maja Marsicevic-Tasic and Costa Nikolic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, died and that the National Assembly should establish the termination of their mandates. Also, you have received a report from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88, point 8 and point 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MPs Maja Marsicevic-Tasic and Koste Nikolic. In accordance with Article 88(1), point 8 and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended, before the election of the elected MPs Maja Maršićevic-Tasic and Kosti Nikolic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his death. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament, filling the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. You have accepted the resignation of Aleksandra Sikov as a National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and Article 2(2) and Article 3. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds the end of the term of office of MP Aleksandra Sakov, on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased before it was elected, MP Aleksandra Sikov, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda. Before moving to the agenda of the session, I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted on 15 March 2001 to the National Assembly 24 draft laws submitted to the MPs. The government, by letter dated 20 March 2001, also delivered to you, suggested that the president of the National Assembly convene a session of the National Assembly as soon as possible to discuss a number of these draft laws by emergency procedure. Respecting the reasons contained in the letter from the government, I called for the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for the adoption of acts by emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. We're moving on to making decisions by emergency procedure. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the 2001 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 March 2001, be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001. I find that 165, against no one with abstentions, voted 11. A total of 176 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. 2. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft excise law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 March 2001, be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider the Excise Act as an emergency procedure. I find that 173 against no one with abstentions voted 7. A total of 180 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 3. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that an urgent procedure be taken to consider the proposal for a law on sales tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 March 2001. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on sales tax. For 167, no one against, no one abstention, 12 voted, a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 4. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget in 2001, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 March 2001, be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the Government of the Republic of Serbia's proposal to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law on the use of the Agrarian budget in 2001. For 167, no one against, no one abstention, 13 voted, a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 5. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 March 2001, be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses. For 170, no one against, no one abstention, 12 did not vote, a total of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Six. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the draft law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 2001, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 March 2001, should be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 2001. For 161 against one, no one abstention, 22 did not vote, 184 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Seven. National MP Lazar Marjanski proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 February 2001, should be considered after an urgent procedure. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of Parliamentarian Lazar Marjanski to consider, after an urgent procedure, the draft law supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land. For 57, against 120, four abstentions, 18 did not vote, a total of 199 MPs attended. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 8. National MP Milan Markovic proposed that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Violations, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 February 2001, be considered after an urgent procedure. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Milan Markovic to consider, as an emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements. For 15, against 128, 30 abstentions, 22 did not vote, a total of 195 MPs attended. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Nine. The Management Board proposed that the draft decision on permanent Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 March 2001, should be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Administrative Committee to consider, after an urgent procedure, a proposal for a decision on Members of Parliament to work on a permanent basis in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 175, no one against, no one abstention, 19 did vote, a total of 194 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to a decision on proposals to expand the agenda. You have received a proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Committee, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group, on 21 February 2001. I remind you, on this occasion, that Article 143 is Section 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are scheduled for the National Assembly to decide on the resolution and selection of a new member of the board at the first next session after the parliamentary group's proposal has been submitted. Since the above-mentioned draft decision is not contained in the draft agenda of this session, it is necessary, by respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to supplement the agenda of this sitting. That is why I am voting on my proposal to supplement the agenda with the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by Mr Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. For 159 against 9, abstention 7, 19 was not voted, a total of 194 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We also have some suggestions to combine the agenda. National MP Zoran Micovic, based on art. 84th and 133th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft laws submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia: the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, the Proposal for a Law on the Use of Funds of the Agricultural Budget in 2001, the Proposal for a Law on Excises, the Proposal for a Law on Transport Tax, the Proposal for a Law on Public Revenue and Public Costs and the Proposal for a Law on the Size of Funds and the Participation of Municipalities and Cities in Transport Tax in 2001. Does MP Zoran Micovic want a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting forward a vote on the proposal of MP Zoran Micovic to carry out a joint principle search on the draft laws tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia: the draft law on the 2001 budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a law on the use of the funds of the Agricultural Budget in 2001, the Proposal for a Law on Excises, the Proposal for a Law on Transport Tax, the Proposal for a Law on Public Revenue and Public Costs and the Proposal for a Law on the Size of Funds and the Participation of Municipalitys and Cities in Transport Tax in 2001. For 120, against 55, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17, a total of 193 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We also have a proposal to change the order of each item of the agenda. National MP Zoran Micovic suggested that the draft law on the use of the Agrarian Budget in 2001, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, be considered as the second item of the agenda, following a review of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, because of their mutual relationship. Does MP Zoran Micovic want a word? No, I don't. I would like to put on the vote by MP Zoran Micovic to consider the draft law on the use of the Agricultural Budget in 2001, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the second item of the agenda, after considering the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001. For 142, against 21, with seven abstentions, they did not vote 23, and a total of 193 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we don't have any more suggestions, and you know the Rules of Procedure and you know the deadlines for proposing... (Božidar Vucurovic, from the post: Parliamentary Affairs) I thought it was about the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I don't think you've deliberately dropped it, but I think we should put an end to the agenda in the old assembly custom - the parliamentary issues, which are normally debated, that is to say, at the end of the debate on all points of the agenda. It's always been so far, I don't see why we shouldn't, and now we put it on the agenda. I'm talking about parliamentary issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1800	Okay, we don't have a agenda for now, but we'll have a chance to ask the MPs' questions. We don't have that on the agenda as a part of the agenda. I think we agreed on that and agreed, at the end of the session. Please move to the agenda of the session in general. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all points adopted by an emergency procedure, as well as on the basis of a proposal for amendments and amendments to the agenda, shall be included in the agenda of the sittings in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for acts adopted as new items of the agenda, the committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, and to make it clearer, that I read it one more time. So we actually decided and then we put in general a statement that dots read like this: D n n n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, 2. Proposal for a law on the use of the Agrarian budget for 2001, 3. Proposal for an Excise Act, 4. Proposal for a Transport Tax Act, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on public income and public expenditure, 6. Proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 2001, 7. Proposal for a Decision on People’s MPs in the Permanent Work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 8 / 8 Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 9. MPs' questions. I ask the MPs to declare the agenda of the session in general. I find that there were no abstentions, there were no 17 votes in favour of the 182 vote, and a total of 199 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and hand it over to the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1801	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we have a large agenda ahead of us, but it is an obligation to finish this job in the next three days, so that local self-government, in accordance with the budget and the rights that will come from it, can adopt its budgets for municipalities and cities. In view of that, and in accordance with Article 88. The Rules of Procedure that we adopted at the previous session, I suggest that the discussion be limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1802	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a natural and understandable desire of the government that proposes budgets and laws and parliamentary majority to create as little an opportunity as possible to resist the proposed views. It is a natural desire from their point of view, but it is not from the Serbian citizens' point of view. We understand what you've done. You have united the debate for all points in the principle of this agenda. It can be understood, but now for the budget, for the agrarian budget, for the law on sales tax, for the law on public income and expenditure, we only provide for five minutes for Members to say, then we can all leave this room automatically. We are here to look together at the material proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Already working on committees gave positive results, already the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to postpone the tax on services in municipal enterprises, but Serbian citizens have already been given the opportunity, thanks to the work of MPs in the Assembly, to be less than 20% burdened on them for municipal services since 1 April. So, the citizens of Serbia profited. We are here to work together, investing amendments not to outwit who's smarter, but to make the budget, the agrarian budget, the traffic tax law, the public income and expenditure law work, and I guess everyone here is interested in getting better in this country. It's not a legal project. It is a matter of six crucial legal projects, which give extraordinary power which has not been so far, that one minister manages 21 billion without any legal basis. We suggest you leave 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1803	We're starting to work in a way that really isn't good. I, respecting your role as president of the Parliamentary Group, have given you my word, but issues like this and such proposals are not under discussion. Now, Mr. Nikolic is answering for his word. These things are not discussed. Please respect yourself, me and this assembly and, regardless of the quality of the proposal, let us be clear about this by voting, but please do not open the debate on these proposals. Please respect the fact that we're going for something that's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for us to pass so many system laws here in three days because the government has not submitted the draft budget to the Assembly at least is cynical and I cannot accept the restriction of the debate. Today you are making several major mistakes, and the public has already begun to discuss your mistakes. I kept my mouth shut during the state holiday, because it would turn out that the MPs won't work for the holiday, and here I'm counting on you to maybe not respect that holiday, and we'll work tomorrow. I thought I'd go out when we broke Serbian Orthodox customs, so the people who passed away 40 days ago here ended up practically being our colleagues, our friends, and as soon as we found out they had passed away, we'd take them away from office immediately. The public is upset with your bill. It would be better to allow one rational time for discussion than to start conflicting over this speaker. If you think in five minutes you can explain six laws of which one budget is, you're wrong. If you think an MP can listen to you after five minutes and come out just because you've agreed and you're wrong. Many of you were opposition MPs, and they know how to do it, and you do all that power you attack, in many cases with justice. Mr. President, Article 88(1) provides for 10 minutes and some exceptions. Don't make the budget an exception. I don't think there's any more important law. There may be more important laws in the year, but let's just say this is the most important thing, so don't limit time on that law. If we do not limit time we will respect the Rules of Procedure, and if you limit time then it is not the Rules of Procedure, it is your will, and we must not respect your will, we are the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1805	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable ministers, are too serious these laws that we will discuss today, not just today, but in the coming days. These are the laws that are most important in this year and which directly concern the standard of living of Serbian citizens. So I ask you and I appeal to the MPs of the DOS to think about not being just a voting machine and silent observers. These are very important points, and if we only have five minutes for six system laws, one of which is a budget, what are we going to talk about and how we're going to talk about it then? How do you say the representatives of local self-government, whom there is plenty here, will speak within those five minutes. Since the laws are very important, vital to all citizens of Serbia, I suggest we stick to the Rules of Procedure and we have 10 minutes to discuss these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1806	Please state the proposal to limit the discussion to five minutes. For 103, against 63, abstentioned 18, did not vote 13, a total of 197. I find the proposal accepted. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – COMMUNITY PREPARATION ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET LAW AND THE GROUP OF THE FOLLOWING LAWs A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint search on the draft laws proposed by MP Zoran Mićovic, I am opening a joint principle search on: 1. Proposal for a Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, 2. Proposal for a law on the use of the Agrarian budget in 2001, 3. Proposal for an Excise Act, 4. Proposal for a Transport Tax Act, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on public income and public expenditure, 6. Proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 2001. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1807	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, budget and tax policy are certainly a very important part of themselves, regardless of whether they are viewed individually or in relation to the set of laws proposed here, but even more than that, they are part of the country's overall policy and is needed from the position of the promoters, i.e. Governments explain, explain and follow-up activities provided for, and also the reasons, the systemic reasons for the management of such budgetary and tax policies. In five points, I would first say the basic elements that are necessary, whose understanding is needed in order to understand this and this budget and the tax package, and then I will say a few sentences on the objections which are in the meantime addressed and in general on the scope of tax and budgetary policy in the conditions in which our country is located and on what realistic expectations should even be referred to this instrument very important in every economy, but a very limited fact in that economy that operates at a limited level. So, the first principle that we managed and was given to experts from the Ministry of Finance and their colleges, when making the budget, was the principle of savings, reorganisation and restructuring of the public sector, which means state administrations and public enterprises. We want to walk, so during the implementation of this budget, try to achieve maximum what we announced when we formed this government, which is public sector reform, public services and public enterprises. We want that, at this point, it is not so easy to establish that limit where it will not be much, or too much, that cost reduction, above all personal costs, the number of employees, in a very pre-named state service, the state apparatus, but we want this whole process to be followed by the introduction of service standards, by the introduction of a strict day-to-day cost control, by the introduction of a very strict control of budget spending. That control will require a whole range of institutions that did not exist before, institutions for budget control, and by some parliamentary bodies that are yet to be created, and by some independent expert, expert bodies and commissions that need to be introduced into our laws. In any event, it is necessary to introduce light in the way in which money is spent by the state apparatus, the justification of this spending and to see which services citizens receive from such a state apparatus that they pay, whether these services are of their own quality, at their own cost and are adequate and adequate. It's one procedure that's inevitable for modernising our country, without it, this budget would be one very static item and would actually just carry one inherited state. We hope that at the end of this year we will be able to submit a report on the savings achieved, on the rationalisation that has been achieved, on raising the efficiency of these public services. Unfortunately, in this sense of costing it will not be expressed this year, but it will be expressed in the next budget, if we manage to reduce the number of employees in state services by at least 20% and set up an apparatus that will provide much less money with much more services and services. Then next year, such a machine in the budget, as an item, will be shown differently. Also, public companies, there are protests, there is a dissatisfaction that public enterprises are treated practically in accordance with the law, as something the government has, which is frozen salaries in public enterprises, where they are 20% and more than 20% of the Republic average, but it is also necessary to do an analysis -- what happens in these public enterprises, in which way they do business with what they are entrusted with, because many of these public enterprises actually have a monopoly, on the basis of which they charge certain services. They have certain privileges, but the issue of their overall profitability is very problematic, because some of them are making huge losses, which then shift to the expense of the state, means again at the expense of citizens and taxpayers. We intend to make a very precise analysis of the business of these public enterprises over the next few months, and those public enterprises in which they operate profitablely, thanks to good management, thanks to good services, there will be no problem in rewarding those people who contribute to this profitable business. But it is also necessary to see who is actually responsible for this potentially good business and to separate those parts in public enterprises, which are administrative, which should share the fate of all other and similar businesses and employees in the state, and not to be privileged by the fact that they have found themselves in a company that, thanks to the availability of state resources, makes some revenue. So, savings, restructuring, rationalization and setting standards of quality in public services and public enterprises -- that's the first element we've set as a condition for forming such a budget. The second element is the issue of budgeting and grey economy. It's a painful place. We hope that after this financial year there will be much more clarity than so far. Our determined intention is, and I hope that we will have success here, that all that has gone beyond the budget as a gray economy and organised crime, above all in the market for oil and oil derivatives, cigarettes, alcohol, coffee and other excise goods, gradually, and hopefully quickly, becomes a regular inflow of our budget. We didn't count on budget income the maximum amount of what we expect, we tried to be realistic, but if we succeed in this repression, I wouldn't say gray, but black economies -- because this is about organised crime, it's not about people who sell on the street by a can of gasoline or a box of cigarettes, it's about the sharpest, it's about millions and hundreds of millions of marks -- if we manage to contain this organized crime, it's going to look a lot brighter in this budget picture during this time. But as realists, we wanted to limit ourselves to some realistic assessment of how much the tide from these sources will be. We can immediately say that we expect more, but let life surprise us once more. The third point is to introduce payment classes into this part of the budget users. We've talked to budget users and found that the two things that torture them are the same thing as low wages, and the other thing is injustice. We can't help them with the low wages, and we can help them with the injustice. The injustice was reflected in the fact that, for example, an employee of the lowest school staff received a higher salary than any other budget user employed with the highest school supplies, so that a cleaning woman or waiter had a higher salary than elsewhere, a doctor of science or a teacher at school. We decided to capture this illogicality. Some rebelled, thought it was a return to old times. I don't worry about whether a solution is old or new, provided it rests on some arguments and works. I think that at this point it is necessary to introduce payment classes, which means that for similar work, in similar conditions, if it is a budget and if paid out of the budget, it pays about a similar amount, because only so can you explain to people that you need to be patient and that you need to accept the really minimum amount that can be paid from this budget. This will require additional analyses and detailed research from various budget users. Take, for example, the police, for example, the electricity industry. We have several tens of thousands of employees in the police, all falling under certain criteria, which were justified. So they were getting more, because they are at greater risk, but if you look at the number of people who are classified in that category of people who are actually at risk, then you'll see that they're not all, that about one third of the people who are being led as people who are doing extremely risky work, actually sitting behind the counters, sitting in the offices, filling out certain forms, and being treated as members of a budget group that needs to be supported and having privileges in the previous period. We must, within that budget user, make a detailed analysis and that those with uniforms on the street, who put their lives at risk, that they be supported, that we stand behind them, and those who sit behind the counters, be paid just as much as the people who are paid are sitting behind the counters somewhere else, in the category of another budget user. The same case is critical of the energy sector, where in this mining complex, people who go to the pit or the pit, are part of that segment that needs to be protected, but there's a lot of administrations in the whole part of it, and I don't think it would be right if we took it in the cell and if we said that we protect miners, we support miners, because they have a very difficult job -- yes, but miners are those who go to the mines or dig coal, and not miners who fill the forms or work in the offices in the complex, so we expect the budget users themselves to look a little bit. To all those whose budget is very important, when it comes to the time in which they need to talk, I would ask that it be important to them at the time when someone else is talking. So, I would ask the budget users to, together with any dissatisfaction, be ready to turn a little bit towards themselves, make a detailed analysis within their businesses and try to set the amount, which is maximumly possible on the basis of income, make a slightly better redistribution, and that those who make the most of the most contributions, which are in the most difficult conditions, get the most. That this false solidarity does not prevail in the sense that we are now all miners, although there are a thousand of us, and perhaps a thousand more administrative workers, but that these administrative workers also say, it's okay, the miners who go to the spears need to get more and as far as warm meals, wages and other rights. That's what we're all here for. But that also implies one process and these paying classes are not just one formula for the distribution of poverty fairly, but are also one attempt to bring a little more order and more justice into action itself, which is financed from the budget. The fourth point is priorities. Each budget, of course, is supported and supported by an indication of what kind of policy the country is dealing with. We have defined ourselves as three priorities, the first is education and education, the second is health care and the third is the education of the workforce, primarily those who are not employed, who are at the working offices and those who are so-called. A technological surplus. A redistribution has been performed from some items to these items. You'll see, when you look at the structure of the budget and compare it with previous budgets, how much is the participation of education and health care, and that the first time a fund for funding the qualification is created, that the redistribution has been made. We think it's a commitment to invest in the future in very difficult circumstances, when we don't really have the money to invest at all, but we show these symbolic priorities that we want to invest in the future and that the future is in education, that our children get better education, that our patients get a better service and that we try to keep these people, who are not out of work by their fault, out of work, back in the process of work. The paper is that at first, some funds are defined within the budget, some amounts in these three areas, for which we expect them to be only initial. If our country meets these conditions, we want to take credits as well as government and to modernise education, health care and for much greater investments in the retraining of the workforce. We also think that on some other sides we might be able to raise some money into these funds. First of all, we're thinking World Bank donations. But this is one commitment. It depends on the development of the event whether it's going to go full-gas or it's going to stay on this. In any case, if we are talking about the priorities of this government, then it is education, health care and unemployed people, in whose qualifications the Government must invest as in a national programme. The fifth thing is federal government and federal budget. When we define this budget in this way, and the finance minister will say something about its gross principle, about its transparency, about entering everything that is income and recording everything that is expenditure from it, which is one special philosophy of the modern budget, but I don't want to talk about these details, but if we define the budget in this way, that means budget savings, that means budget of all possible inflows and withdrawal of the privileges, that means budget of the paying classes, that means budget of the priorities. Then the question arises - and what about the other part of the Serbian budget, which is the federal budget. Because that budget is filled with income and income from the same citizens, who are paying for this Serbian budget. So we expect the federal government to apply the same principle and reduce the basis for receiving in the federal state and federal administration, to reduce the expenditure on federal administration and to submit budget expenditure to the military and federal administration the same strict control that we want to subject to the spending of this budget. We expect, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, that every penny taken should be recorded, that its spending be explained and that it is known exactly where every penny taken from the citizens of Serbia is going and which has passed through the budget. This is the redistribution budget, this is not the budget of some economic policy, unfortunately, because it's still just that the existing poverty is a little more justly distributed. We expect all those who live in this country and who work in the institutions of this country to participate. And we believe that the federal government and federal authorities, as well as the Serbian government and its authorities, should share the fate of the country's citizens. These are the five basic principles on which this budget is based. We don't think that's much wisdom. It took a lot of courage for certain privileges to be cut down and for those whose rights have been not satisfied for years in terms of social inclusion, to be given these rights. It took some political courage, but there was no need for great wisdom. It was necessary to simply acknowledge reality and give up illusions and delays in paying costs and moving debts constantly to the second and second years. You should have said, let's see what this country has, what it has to pay for, where it can be taken from, and make some balance there. Two objections arrived in the meantime, important. The first is that this budget is not radical, as we claimed it was, that there is not much savings in it and that it is realistically and nominally similar to the previous budgets. Some people, primarily economists, expected it to be much more restrictive and that it would be much smaller in its absolute amount, since it would allegedly make public spending much less. I have two arguments as an answer. The first argument is that for the first time something has entered this budget that has never entered the budget in the past 50 years and therefore it seems a little larger than it would appear to have been done in the old way. The finance minister will explain what was once the source of the budget and what is now going into the budget and it seems to be bigger. On the other hand, surely we have increased some wages in absolute terms. If you look at the salaries that were two - three years ago - 40, 50, 70, 80 marks, they are now going to be 150, 160 marks. Prices are also up. That's not one fiction, so let's say -- the higher the prices, the higher the wages, so we're on the same thing. No, the real amount is the increase in wages and prices because manufacturers need to get a real amount, foreign currency, for their products, not to be looting. Not that the peasants were a 10-year tank from which one incompetent government, that incompetent government, would transfer the price of social peace to those layers of the population who were not organized and could not rebel, first of all to the country, to the pensioners. Therefore, producers should get a real economic price for their product. Not everyone can, can't do electricity, can't make basic food. There must be more intervention, but it's not the goal of this country living in an expanse by the end of the century and constantly making some allegedly low-price social policy, and we're running out of agriculture and industry and social systems, and everything is going down, and the people are getting cheap. Health care is only cheap when you're healthy, and when you're sick, you don't have it. The drugs are cheap because they're gone. You'd better have them, so you can get them at a real price, because somehow you'd manage, and if they're not there, then you can't even figure it out. So our approach is true. We told the people when we set up this government: we won't lie and we won't steal. Unlike these previous ones, we will not sell you colorful lies, we will tell you what is the state of the economy, what is the state of society and how much from this economy can be taken realistically, in order to pay for education, health and police. Those who think they need to cut budget spending, I remind them that those children, who go to school, our children, that these people, who go to hospitals, our fellow citizens and ourselves, are that the police are watching over us. The one who wants to make a radical cut here, I think it takes one hand of itself. We need to maintain some level of some system, no matter what our economy isn't at the level of that system. I think it's better for all of us as a population to get a little tense and pay a little more, and if our education were a little bit better, that our health care would be a little better, at least that's three times better than the economy and what the economy would make possible. But I don't think it would be a good idea if these social systems were to bring down to the level of economics and if education worked with 25% of our capacity, like our economy, if health care, the police would work with 25% of our capacity. It's a simple reality. We'd like it as a government if it wasn't, but it's the condition we found. Some people passed by the congregation and announced that they would demonstrate. I have a human understanding for them, but I have no expert understanding of them. I'd like them to give themselves up. So, the same people protest as teachers and members of the Educational Workers' Union because the salaries from the budget aren't bigger and the same people are protesting because taxes are too high. These taxes pay those salaries. These people have to determine whether they want less salaries in budget activities, hence lower taxes, or whether they want higher salaries, but thus higher taxes. The same union cannot organise a Nis strike because it will collect electricity in Obrenovac because the salary of workers in the electricity sector will not increase further. When these unions come to terms with priorities, we're ready to talk to them 24 hours a day, to see how this difficult situation is common to overcome. But we must, as a society, make peace so that only what is earned can be spent. If we have certain expectations about the social sector, which is health care, education, police, the functioning of the state, it has to be paid from somewhere. We accept all objections and objections in two senses. If someone says there are some who are privileged and who don't pay, we'd like to know who they are. So, let's charge them. The second is that someone can be taken to give to someone else, to see who's got too much in the budget, so we can give it to someone else. But the objections that only go to someone being small, we respect human beings, but we cannot accept them in this budget. If someone's looking for something more to be on his side, they have to tell whom it should be less. We can't make an equation where the left and right sides don't match. I would ask you to go in that sense and your objections, your amendments. This budget is not the Holy Scriptures. It can change in walking, it can change today, but it can change in accordance with some principle, which is the principle of combined courts. So you can't keep income and expenses apart. We need to get them in line. If we have to lower our taxes, then let's see how much it'll cost the teachers, the doctors, the police, what it'll cost this part of budget spending. We've had a lot of discussions in the course of this budget. We had discussions with international and domestic experts. They were looking for things. We've defined ourselves as some kind of middle. We did not accept all IMF suggestions, because they were very sharp on budgetary constraints. We don't think this country needs shock therapy. We think this country is already in shock. International experts sought much more savings and much more restrictions. Also, we couldn't accept the demands of everyone, budget or others, the users who asked for greater releases and higher wages, because there's no room for that. We believe that this tax policy and this budget will be able to run some social policy, unlike the current period where this policy is generally led through some price policy, and that we will be able to very deliberately support some population groups. We, making budget projections for each decision, both on taxes and on various other measures, have always asked how it will work on one average four-member family in Serbia, and how the group of families will operate, those with the smallest and the highest incomes. Today, there are about 2.5 million families in Serbia. Of these, 330,000 live below the socially tolerated level. About 315,000 families are very wealthy. They stayed somewhere in between. When I say very richly, it's 24,000 dinars a month and more. When I say below the limit, it means significantly below the consumer basket line. Our goal is to try to support the most vulnerable with one fund and direct support to families who are threatened, through children's supplements and through various other social benefits, without going through one social support through general prices, general taxes and various tax exemptions. It provides opportunities for major abuses. We will try at the end of this year to extract at least 100,000 families from this package of socially endangered and to carry less social burdens for both the budget and our society in the coming year. Our goal was and he remains, at the beginning of the year we said, that at the end of the year every four-member family can pay for the consumer basket. Right now, our bill is that we would need, with this budget, with these revenues and expenses, another billion marks for each family to have a full consumer basket at the end of the year. This does not mean that the budget should pay for it, that means that it needs to be through the social product, through economic activities, to create these billions of marks. One part of that will be through redistribution, through one taxation that will hit the richest, these are: taxation of yachts, taxation of weapons, ships on various rivers, which serve as restaurants, through taxation of luxury cars, luxury houses. In this way we will try to achieve one part of social justice, because we think that, especially in difficult economic situations, social justice is one of the biggest obligations of each government. Finally, I want to say something that can't be expected from any budget, not one tax policy. Unfortunately, no budget, no tax policy can be expected to increase living standards. An increase in living standards can be expected from the economy. If business works, if wages are real, then those salaries can buy certain things, then those who produce these things get money, then they invest that money, and then it's some activity. The budget and tax laws are only the corrections or certain mechanisms to regulate and direct this development. They don't create excess values. In our country, this excess value and economic recovery depends on global events. One of them is our definitely returning to international financial organizations, first of all, the World Bank. Then, reprogramming our recovered debts, which are about 25 billion marks. We're hoping that one part of it will be able to write off, and the other part we can reprogram. That's how we become a country that can take credit again. So our businesses and our banks can take back loans, which means investments, new technology, investment in the economy. We're close to, if there aren't any unexpected or unexpected but unwanted shocks, we're close to ending this time. In April, our debt should be reprogrammed if the IMF and the World Bank accept our status. In May or June, there should be a donor conference, which would definitely mean that we are a country accepted in the international financial world. Then it would be that injection of our economy without which there is no increase in living standards. Until then, we need to have what we have, a smart mood, to control it, and to have it in front of the people, publicly, an explanation for every penny we give to someone. I think that's the budget. He is, unfortunately, much smaller than the people who receive wages from him, and much greater than the ones who pay him. But it's our real condition. I think the moment we recognize the real situation and start solving it, we become a politically mature people. By bringing this budget, I think we're showing that in that domain, in the domain of the economy, we've made those changes that we made two, three or six months ago in the domain of politics. I suggest you adopt this budget, with certain changes or what the Assembly adopts, but in principle, as one philosophy of a new democratic policy in Serbia to accept it, because it represents one step, but not a big one, but which, after many years, is a step in the right direction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1808	Do the proposing representatives, Bozidar Djelic, finance and economy minister and Prof. Dr. Dragan Veselinov, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1809	Dear Mr. President, honourable vice presidents, honourable MPs, respected fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is an extraordinary honor for me today to, on behalf of the Government -- and in these difficult times when our soldiers and officers in southern Serbia are killed, when we are in a very difficult economic situation, which is the work of a very wrong economic policy and bad policy, in general, and the position in the international environment -- I propose a whole package of measures. This isn't just a budget, this is one package of reforms of our country's entire public finances. Neither is this the last step, but this is one of the first and significant steps in that direction, nor is this a sacred letter as a budget, but I think and I would like to explain it, that this is a very important shift towards the further leadership of this country and the management of our public finances. Before we move on to these texts and details, I'd like to present to you the general philosophy of this package of measures. So, not only these seven proposals, which are proposed by emergency procedure, but also for those who will come to the debate, will surely be at the next session of the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to thank from the heart to all those who have worked in very difficult circumstances, in short terms, in hard and limited resources, and above all to the services that have done their utmost to work day and night for small money, for small money, but with great enthusiasm, to move into this kind of reform, which I think is of high quality. It is not just the work of the state administration, I would also like to thank all of them, there are several hundred and several thousand who participated in the search on these texts, before the adoption by the Government and the proposal today to the National Assembly for adoption. These are various target groups that we have met, from businessmen, in social, private enterprises, and of course we have invited all parliamentary groups to come to a professional conversation with us. They almost all responded to that. I thank them. I think it should be a new way of discussing and discussing our public life. We also met pensioners, farmers, merchants, many target groups and they gave, as well as local self-government and the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, gave many very good and interesting suggestions. We've adopted many. Of course, after the 15th of March, when the government adopted these proposals, we had a chance to win, someone was already talking about it, useful suggestions in the Assembly, including in public. That's a good thing, because there's a public debate going on, and there's a lot of people who could've been both experts and ordinary people who can come forward to say what they think about the proposed measures. So, that seems like a good practice to me, I'd like to keep going on about it. In the end, we've done our best to make this the best thing for this country, but practice will show what this is worth and that vanity can't be, and we'll be the first to bring some rebalancing and some corrections to these texts and this budget, if it doesn't show up properly in practice. On the other hand, of course, we have to count, and that's what the citizens tell us very clearly and loudly, that it's extremely important that we have much greater stability in our tax provisions and laws, because without that certainty it's very difficult to live. Therefore, we shouldn't change it too much and too often, but of course, if practice shows that something isn't right, that's what we'll first suggest, by correcting it. Before I move on to a little shorter exposure around this whole package, I would like to say that the key goal of all of this, which is very simple, is that finally our country Serbia is starting to look more like a normal, central-European, Balkan country. The model is absolutely not Switzerland, the model is not France, it is not suitable for our occasions, and I would say unfortunately the trouble at the given moment. There is no valid reason to lose in 2001, to make reforms that will at least be a significant step, the first in approaching public finances arrangements, in the case of one Bulgaria, one Romania, one Croatia, one Macedonia, because they have been implementing some reforms for 10 years. And we, for 10 years, have been coughing for them. This first step, which is not the last step, will allow us to shorten that delay from about 10 years to 2 - 3 years. So we didn't even get to the level of that environment now, but we took the first step that would allow us just another year or two, to get back to their level and then move on. So this is the key goal of all of this, of introducing order into this country, and it starts to look like a normal Central European and Balkan country, which will be able to give its citizens a real picture of public finances, control them and be attractive, to look like a normal country, which will be attractive to investments, especially domestic and foreign ones. What does it mean to have a more normal system of public finances in our circumstances, the way they are? First, the budget you have today is actually the first time, it seems to me, in a long series of years, so it seems to me that for the first time in the history of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia after the Second World War, where we've tried and I think we've been able to show everything 100%. So, this time, you have everything or almost everything in the income and on the dispensary side. This means that we have abolished many taxes, which means that all those taxes, taxes that were introduced later or in sublegal acts, or we have abolished them, or we have called them their real name, i.e. tax or excise duty or sales tax. By the way, we have a much simpler and much more normal tax system on the income side. Another thing that has been done is that you will no longer be able to come into a situation with such a system so that a minister or an elder in a ministry can willingly introduce major changes in the tax system, without you as MPs knowing it, that citizens do not know that someone is exempt from certain duties, that other businessmen do not know that there are privileged companies, businesses, social or private, whose taxes are being delayed or simply forgiven. Just because this time everything is before you, and you know what it is, it will be much more control than you, and therefore the peoples before what this government is doing. It's going to be a lot easier to figure out what's going on in the government register. I think this way of saying it is the right way. He's the way of the truth, because he shows that our situation is just the way it is, and that means it's not great, but it allows everyone to see who's on what, what's being spent and where that money comes from. It seems to me that this is a much fairer way to run one state than to promise various things and then try to do it in some sublegal or other ways that would not be appropriate to a democratic and orderly country. So that's the first thing. Of course, when you show everything and when you first tell our public and you people's MPs everything, and those texts you got today, it's our tax system. There are other things, of course, but those are the key things you have in front of you. In that case, I must admit, maybe it should have been shown in another way, it seemed that some new charges were introduced, that there were some new taxes. No, I don't. That's absolutely not true. We haven't introduced a single new tax. The only thing we did was cancel some fees and, let me point out, we cut the solidarity logs first and foremost, and that was one big procedure for our population. We abolished the same thing, which was of course by the transitional government, the electricity tax has been abolished and will be replaced by a subscription for a while, the federal government's tax on exit from the country, as well as a 3% tax on Belgrade and the railways, and all of this is now shown in the budget and through normal tax instruments, such as sales tax or excise duties. So a lot has been abolished, and most of it is simply transformed and shown to you now, at the right level, i.e. at the legal level of what's done and what's done. When you look at our ordinary citizens and we can see that, as far as various property taxes are concerned, this time, whether they're cell phones, that they're apartments, vehicles, we're going to show through a further discussion that the only correction that was, and that's like from previous years of price correction, that there's nothing new for ordinary citizens. What's new here, that's progressive. Progressivity towards economic strength. It is true that this time we have introduced progressiveness, that those who have a car with a much stronger cubicity, those who have much larger apartments or villas, or those who spend a lot more than 500 on pospeed mobile phones, will pay something more. So that's the key thing that was done in this approach. I mean, if you look at the aggregate -- actually because of the big ones, and my fellow ministers know for themselves how difficult the discussions were with them, and we've been trying everywhere that was possible, to reduce consumption -- when you look at the aggregate and when you compare what's been affected last year and what's going to be affected this year, you see that there's no increase, and of course there's reductions. With that, I'd like to move on for the next few minutes to the whole package exposure. In this package, I'd like to explain four key points. The first thing is to talk about what we inherited. These are public finances that are extremely weak, uncontrollable and unfair. That's the first and key point I'd like to talk about. Another key point is to explain why it comes out of such a system with a comprehensive and comprehensive reform to see and explain to you what this reform of public finances is and what its philosophy is, and what it has done. I'll take a closer look at these transport tax texts, excise taxes, and those of the others, about local self-government, to explain what their goals are. The third point I'd like to talk about, it's about the 2001 budget. To say that this is a budget of savings and justice and that it provides, with objective, large constraints -- there is no major shift, there is no means to do something really big for this country through public finances, so that we no longer impose on the economy and citizens -- we have managed to reroute and show the right priorities, and they, as the prime minister has already said, are education, health care, overtraining the workforce and social protection of endangered layers of our society in the right way. So, by targeting those who really need help, not through some false non-economic price to defend everything and thus have no money to defend themselves precisely those who need help. The fourth thing, and I won't insist on it, since these are the next steps, of course, steps for our country and they are, above all, the financing of capital projects, because this year and next we won't be able to do much from domestic sources, and that's why everything the Prime Minister has put out, and these are the next contacts with the international community, and they are very important and, of course, we have to work on reforming the tax administration. This tax administration must be professional, non-partisan, but strictly, and it is very important that our citizens understand that this tax system is the right one for us, that's the one in balance, but that taxes must be paid. In our country, as in all countries, tax evasion must again become one of the most serious mistakes a citizen or an economic operator can make. So that's the thing we're going towards, and you're going to see that there are strict penalties, and this year, not only in the gray economy, but in the whole economy, we're going to introduce a much bigger order in that area. Now let me move on to each of those four points. As for the first point, what we inherited, which we'll see at the next session when we deliver the final account and to the gods, is a very large report on this budget control that we launched on February 6th and which gives very interesting results. The first thing I'd like to say is that for years we've been living in an illusion and public finances absolutely don't show the right picture and the trouble of our country. The deficits have been covered for years, but they've been growing in various ways, they've been covered up. This time, we want to tell the truth and show in the budget and public finances what we need. The other thing is that tax discipline was very low, that we had a lot of non-intentional, dedicated taxes and taxis that reduce discipline and transparency without talking about special regimes and privileges for some, not others. Finally, that control has so far shown that there has been a terrible amount of unintended spending, even illegal activities in our public administration. As for the deficit, if you look at what parliament is, which the Assembly has adopted in recent years, it can be said that it was accountingly correct, but it covered up the real situation of our country. If you look at the year 2000, you can see that the deficits shown were very small, but here you can see that many legal rights were not respected. In October 2000, according to the legislation, even two years were delayed for children's allowances, as long as 26 months were delayed for material family security. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: time, time, who holds the presidency now? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1810	Mr. Minister, please bring the end because time is limited, and 15 minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1811	What, 15 minutes? All right, let me finish in five minutes. (Serb Radical Party emissaries, earning from the site: Time, Time. ) So we're starting from a situation of very uncontrolled public finances that didn't show the truth and you're going to get very fatal reports at the next session about how the state register was spent and very.... (Serb Radical Party emissaries, earning from the site: Time, Time. I'll be done in five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1812	Please, let's listen to Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1813	Okay. There you will see that more than a billion dinars have been spent unintendedly, that we have illegal actions that were done in this country, that some have gone over private accounts, that in health they have created terrible, disgusting and I would say, disgusting things, about what was going on with the money that was intended for children and for those who are sick. We'll follow these things closely and criminally. As far as tax reform is concerned, tax reform, as I have indicated, simply introduces order into this country, we abolish these special accounts. I can tell you that there's every special tax that shows that every time you introduce something special, whether it's a railroad, it's the Colubary County, only then you see what's going on and that money doesn't come first to those who are meant to and not to be spent on what it was meant for. That's why we've cleared up with this practice and it's gone. If you're looking for a special fee, you'll never see it again. The only thing left, it's 3% for the military, and that's what those 17% for sales tax are adding, and I really hope, through budget rebalances and military reform, we'll be able to cut that sales tax to 17% next year. As far as the key things we've been talking about, as far as tax reform is concerned, the first thing I'd like to say is that those key things that have been done, and that's about the sales tax, that unique rate that's been introduced is simply what all normal countries have done in our environment for the last six years. Closer to the effect we're talking about, it's going to be much less than said, according to the minimum consumer basket we've been counting on, and it's going to be about 4%. Now that we have delayed the application of this tax until the beginning of 2002, we have enough in the budget and through children's allowances and through one-time social assistance, enough money to mitigate the effect on those poorest, for which it is important to make them make it through this moment in April and May. Another thing, and it's very important to understand that this unique tax is not just one economic measure, it's not just a way for tax laws to be taxed... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Time. ), not social and development and other ways. They're not suitable instruments for that. However, we have also done this discussion so far, not only in the communals, but I would also like to say that, as far as agriculture is concerned, and that is one big message that we have now for them and that Mr. Vesenov will talk more about it, that this time our peasants through this tax reform..... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: How long will you speak, how long have you spoken until now, and how much do you have a right? ) In agriculture we have a huge shift and that's one strong message we have for our peasants, that's that what was previously taxed with 9%, and in fact it was re-promatter, it was released this time. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: How much will he speak? He's already talking for 25 minutes. He can't talk for more than 15 minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1814	Please don't throw away. No one has the right except for the President, or the President, to determine the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please do not throw out of place, and if you have objections to the Rules of Procedure raise your hand and you will get the word. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: "You're not going to throw me out maybe?" Are you answering for a word? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: He cannot speak for more than 15 minutes. Please don't throw away, Mr. Djelic. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: E, there will be no limit then. I ask the MPs not to receive from the post, and I also ask the Government's representative to consider that time is limited. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Let me see how you limit us. I'm asking you to speed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1815	So, as far as peasants are concerned, not only are fertilizers and plant protection products, which were previously taxed, now released, but we have extended it to breeding seeds, fruit material and complete feed for cattle. I think we have a strong message for the peasants, and we're going to make it possible not only for them to rebuild the livestock stock, but we're going back into the accumulation in that sector. It's one very important thing, because we ourselves know that this sector is very important for our country's recovery. As for moving on to gross wages, I'd like to say that it's not just one economical act, but one very moral social act, because we have tens of thousands of people who have only received warm meals for years and think it's a salary, but they don't exercise their basic social rights to retirement, to health care, and by going to gross wages, we're going to do one great justice with it, and we're not going to have a time bomb to get tens of thousands of people to retire and not get what they expect, but much less. And that's one very important message that we have for the economy, when we have this jumbled terrain where some give more or less of these unconfirmed funds, and when we get to a single pay base we're going very quickly to dissipate the economy and that's another key thing I'd like to point out today, which is that on the first gross pay, we're not just going to reduce the burden, but there's no fraud here. When you expand the pay base, of course the rates have to be reduced so that people don't pay anymore and there's no magic or trick. We're going to show the math, and that should be reduced from 105% to about 78%, how much the payload is. But at the same time, and that's one strong message we have for the economy, we're going to cut by 10% more of that, so we're going below 70%, to 69.8% payload, and that's what the economy expects at this point. She expected maybe more, but this is what we can do responsibly, without making a bigger hole in the budget that we can't pay the salaries to the enlighteners and the others, or that we can't pay our pensions. That's one strong message. That is why we now have less burden, and we will already have May salaries, which will be paid in June, less burden than any country in the environment. That's what's important at this point in time for the economy to start. I'd just like to conclude and say that this is a measure, tax policy and budget not everything, but I think with this package of measures, we're going to make it possible to have one balanced situation, an honest statement, to which we need to build on many more measures, which is, above all, economics, attracting new and fresh capital to get this going. It's the only way we're going to be able to finance this budget deficit, which was first proven fairly in 22 billion dinars. It implies privatisation and it implies attracting capital, domestic and foreign, so that it can be financed. I'd like to conclude that. The battle ahead of us is a battle to combat the gray economy, it's a battle for justice, for what we have, and it's too little, it's a battle for an even greater savings that we can still do something about this year, to prove next year. In the end, it will be a battle on a much healthier basis to attract additional funds and to do everything to boost production in real profitable jobs and to make our country better in the fall and next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure in article 88 and, since everything has been transparent both in front of you and the television viewers, I must warn the ruling majority in this assembly that we are not hiduces when we use a pay phone here, and you are Democrats when you use it to explain your views. Mr. President, you've allowed a representative of the government to speak for 10 minutes from the time available to him by the Rules of Procedure because you've reduced our MPs to five minutes. He had opportunities for the Rules of Procedure to ask to speak longer. Since none of you know the Rules of Procedure, he didn't take advantage of that possibility. Then he committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask that you vote on it because it will define us. If the minister can speak longer, then only then MPs can speak longer, because this is where the minister came for us, not us for him. As far as we're concerned, we would never enter this room to listen to Minister Djelic. We are members of the opposition and we want to listen to what we say. You don't think we came here to listen to you? So, Mr. President, in order to make it clear to the MPs who don't understand themselves, I ask that we vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure by Minister Djelic, he spoke longer, and you made it possible for him, you indirectly violated the Rules of Procedure. There's a quorum, and of course your decision will determine after our behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1817	There's no need for us to say this by voting, and you're just right. It is limited time to present the MPs and thus limit the time of the proposing representatives and everyone, except the Prime Minister. It has been omitted that the government's proposal requests the Parliament's permission to speak for a long time. That's why there's a different case here, so more understanding can be used to look at this excess, because it's left with the possibility of the Assembly pleading, to allow longer exposure. Maybe it's possible that something more flexible is my warning of overtime. By the way, you're absolutely right that time is limited to the representatives of the promoters, and that also applies to Mr. Veselinov, who will speak next, so I don't think there's any need to put it to the vote, because this is what I've accepted the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, if he doesn't use his right under Article 89. The Rules of Procedure also suggested that the Assembly establish that it would speak longer and longer. He's got that chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1818	Article 89. The Rules of Procedure say that the proposing, or authorised representative, may request that the National Assembly approve him to speak longer at the beginning of his presentation. He hoped there would be an elementary culture to be heard, to the radicals to listen to what they did to this country, but they can't do it obviously. I understand that you only want to listen to yourself, because no one else wants to listen to you. That's terrible, but by saying how much time it takes, a man has asked for five more minutes, and that proposal is put to the vote. What's been failed so it's not put to a vote, it's really not his problem. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, and I find it extremely untasteful to interrupt a man in such an important exposure, no matter how unsuitable it may be, even to the radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1819	I ask you first that we do not have a debate twice on the same issue, and we have already made this clear and I ask the Members of Parliament not to take over my obligation, which is the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and that they do not receive those interpretations from the place. He's got a message from the Proposer's representative, Mr. Vesenov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the Assembly to grant me, under Article 89. The Rules of Procedure, an additional five minutes, if necessary, to explain such an important question, which I believe it is, the appropriations on the agrarian budget, or for the agrarian budget, therefore, five more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1821	This will be decided by the Assembly. Mr. Seselj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where the debate on all six laws is united. Since the debate is united on all six laws and all MPs can speak only once about all six, then it is only natural for one person to speak to the National Assembly once and not double, to triple and multiply. If you continue this multiplication and violation of the Rules of Procedure, only your ministers can be ordered by tonight. I remind the president of the National Assembly that on today, 60 years ago, a coup was made by a group of generals, who were agents of the English Intelligence Service. Don't, after 60 years, renew the coup, of course in some miniature form, and it's not about generals anymore, it's about the lower officers and senior officers of the NATO Pact. You today, for the six most important laws, determine that a single debate is being conducted, through the tyranny of the parliamentary majority, and you are still limiting it to five minutes. Why the debate at all? Your conscience isn't clear, you're afraid to discuss these legal projects of yours. Here, Djindjic is most afraid, and I know him by his eyes when he's scared. You're scared to come today. Of course, you're aware of how disastrous the laws are and you want to avoid any critical word of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1823	We have nothing to say here, because there is no objection to any member of the Rules of Procedure. (Employee Vojislav Seselj, from the place: It is Article 88) You've finished your exposure, so we can get back to work. There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic:
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1824	As much as the representatives of the opposition may mind, in this elected assembly, Mr. Seselj, you may have received your own professional certificate at Law School, but read carefully Article 88, which says that the other members of the Government are given the floor when asked for it. Mr. Vesenov asked for a word, asked the Assembly to extend his five-minute exposure. The congregation can declare that. (Employer Vojislav Seselj, from the place: He insulted me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1825	He didn't insult you, he didn't misread you. (Employer Vojislav Seselj, from the place, how is it not? He mentioned the profession, I'm sensitive here. He mentioned his last name and profession. Mr. Seselj, he did mention your last name, but it's not in itself an insult. If you feel offended by your last name and profession, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1826	I didn't say I was hurt for mentioning the name or, which Djindjic throws away, offended. Mentioning Djindjic's name can be an insult, and my name can only be mentioned with pride. Here, and Lecic agrees, he knows it best. Ladies and gentlemen, what the ruling majority should be ashamed of, she's taking the lead today, even though I didn't intend to do it today. I've been given a court case to get kicked out of law school, and you haven't yet resolved your Minister of Education, Gaš Knezevic, who abolished the previous act, the preparatory act. It's kind of like if the Constitutional Court abolished the draft law, well, that's what your minister did. But this Minister of yours, Gašo Knezevic, speaks of what kind of government you are. Why don't you allow, here, Mr. Djindjic, I ask you to make your point on this matter - why don't you let the National Assembly discuss your six laws. You're aware that in five minutes about six laws, the MP can't say anything, it's a minute on average by law. What can be said -- to say the name of the laws of the competent minister to be mentioned, and along the way to add something to it and over. What else can you say about that? You put yourself in this situation, and then you break your own decision. Then the finance minister comes out, and instead of 15, he talks for 25 minutes. So, then, come out Veselinov (Are you still Minister, Veselinov)? All ministers will be ordered. Look out, the ministers of different resolutions took part in the preservation of these laws. That these are just laws from one resistor, e.g. The budget, taxes and funding of local self-government, so come on, let's unite the debate, but there's also the agricultural budget, there's a few more, there's various resolutions represented. You're limiting us to debate, and here you're letting the ministers speak indefinitely and that what they've been deluding the public for days, because only they're seen on all televisions, because now all DOS televisions are DOS, you're preventing a different opinion from being heard, you're preventing these speakers from opening their eyes to the public -- how dangerous taxes you're voting today and how dangerous budget you bring.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1827	We can move on to making a decision on Mr. Veselinov's proposal to grant him an extension. (Employer Tomislav Nikolic asks for a word about the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1828	Mr. Vesenov has no right to ask to be allowed to speak for longer. The promoter is Mr. Djelic. He has the right to ask to be allowed to speak longer and explain why he talks longer. Mr. Vesenov, as minister, has the right to speak only twice as long as the MPs. He doesn't have the right to ask for an overrun. And Mr. Djelic, as an honorable man, did not ask for an overrun. And he thought about it in his head -- and what am I to be more privileged than the MPs, which I have for a long time, and 250 people have no right for a long time? If it was motivated by Minister Djelic, it's an honor. Meaning, if MPs can't speak any longer, neither will ministers, it's a real relationship in the assembly. There are no privileged ones here and there are no those who are discriminated against, and that is the only way we can accept the work of the Assembly. The MP has no right to ask for an extension of the time for discussion and the minister to have the right to seek, so only the government can do so. In the government, make a deal, ask for each other as long as you want time at your disposal. This is our assembly, the National Assembly, in which the MPs sit, you have come to ask us to pass some laws, so you will limit our time for debate, and you will give wine to your debates. So where is it, gentlemen ministers and gentlemen MPs from the majority? No one, except for the promoter, and for a united debate, is one proposing, I guess, the finance and economy minister, and no one else has the right to ask to extend his time. And of course, the Prime Minister has the right to speak indefinitely.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1829	We didn't have a member here...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1830	Here, I'll point it out. You've injured members 88 and 89. You said at the beginning of this session that the debate was united. The debate shall be united when the points which are, in their essence, similar, identical are on the agenda, when in principle it can be discussed on these points of the agenda through one discussion. This means that it is also a unique explanation for the whole agenda complex. You can't particularly explain the point by point. Yes, but within one discussion. And then, when, within one discussion, the explanation of all the points of the agenda, this discussion can last as long as the Rules of Procedure had predicted. This means that in the event that you propose a grouping of debates on several points, then the Proposer must designate one representative, who, in this case, the Government, will explain all six points at once. It was Minister Djelic. He overstepped his minute, you admitted his mistake, and we're not discussing it anymore. Of course, ministers have the right to report for the word, but not in the capacity of the motionor, or the authorised representative, but in the capacity of the participants in the discussion. The Minister of Agriculture may speak for this speaker, but as a participant in the discussion, he may receive a word of order under Articles 88 and 89 and speak twice as much as is foreseen for the presentation of MPs. In this case, 10 minutes. The minister cannot appear as a new proposing representative, because it is then a violation of the previous decision on a united debate. What, then, are you going to make us respect the decision on a united debate? You cannot, for if you violate the decision made by the congregation yourself, do not expect that decision to be binding for us. Minister Vesenov can speak for 10 minutes, as the Rules of Procedure allow him to speak twice as long as is intended to present MPs. (Vojislav Seselj from the city: I to present his opinion, not in front of the promoter. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1831	Mr Dragisic, article 89, reads: The proposer, or authorised representative of the motions at the beginning of his presentation, may request that the National Assembly grant him a long period of exposure, which must specify how much time extension he requires and explain why he does so. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. That's where we agree, so that's what it says. Therefore, whether the debate is united or not, a representative of the Government at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the material that you received on the agenda -- the proposal for a law on the use of the Agrarian Budget in 2001 -- was set by Professor Dr Dragan Veselinov, Minister for Agriculture. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: There are no such points. ) Therefore, these dots are missing, but there is this act. We're not talking about a point here, we're talking about an act. The debate on this issue would be very interesting and valuable if Serbian citizens lived as live citizens of Sweden or France and representatives of the Serbian Radical Party participated in writing changes and amendments to the Rules of Procedure, as they did not want to participate. But at a session where everything is clear to you and everyone else, because it says in the Rules of Procedure, it is the debate of this species in today's situation in Serbia that really is a mess. (Tomislav Nikolic: I am looking for a replica, and Mr Dragisic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure). Mr. Dragisic, you cannot advertise a new injury, because you are impatient in obstruction, because we have not reached the end of your previous proposal. We can decide first about the previous one. So, you can now be dissatisfied with my answer, so ask that the Assembly be re-enacted, and then ask again about another point of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1832	You did it before the Assembly pleads, the injury is in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1833	That's what you'll be able to say when we're done. Are you asking the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1834	To answer your question. Of course, I ask that the Assembly plead to the apparition that the Rules of Procedure have been injured and do not agree with your argument. It is only true in case each item of the agenda is specifically discussed, point by point. You have united the agenda, the debate and these six points you have turned into one item of the agenda, because it is a subject that is the same, unique. It's a package called the so-called package. budget laws. We understand, the item of the agenda is budget law, package of laws, one representative of the promoter. You can turn it any way you want, but that still doesn't mean you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1835	According to this, I think you're asking that this matter be spoken to by the Assembly and I'll do it. (Tomislav Nikolic requests a replica for the president's statement and an insult to the parliamentary group. ) Let me give my word to you, although according to the Rules of Procedure, I determine whether you are offended or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1836	I'm not determining whether I'm offended, but you've made an insult. Well, that's, of course, against me, but I have to say what you said. You said we were rude here and that we weren't involved in the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. And then I have to say that you're an immoral and dishonest man, because I've given 18 amendments to this last session, which was urgent, so that the budget could be passed immediately, we've worked two nights as vampires, so we've waited a month for the next session to adopt the budget. Mr. President, don't use the fact that you're sitting behind someone else's back for nothing, and especially don't use it to insult the MPs. I am not a rude man for you, I am an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you must take care of it. Your incursions about how you and some people don't even want to communicate can be funny, but think about it, you're still the president of the National Assembly. And that means something. If some ministers here don't know they're ministers, I think you as president of the National Assembly know you're the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1837	I would like to put Mr Dragisic's motion to vote that article 89 has been broken. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 36, against 117, the abstentions were 22, did not vote 23, a total of 198. I find the proposal hasn't been adopted. There's a word Mr. Dragisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1838	You've injured Article 28, which speaks of the responsibilities of the president of the National Assembly. Here is the tax list: it does the work envisaged by the Constitution, chaired by the meetings of the Assembly, took care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, took care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies and carried out and other tasks provided for in the law and these Rules of Procedure. And it doesn't say anywhere that the president of the National Assembly can comment on the work of the parliamentary groups in this assembly or give them lessons. I will remind you, Mr. President, that Mr. Dragan Tomic sat here before you. He started out just like you did. First he went nice, culturally, and he spoke well to everyone. Finally, he began to show his true face, also commenting on the work of opposition parties, with opposition parties being your party at the time, and Mr Djindjic's party, and the SPO and some other parties. In the end, he showed his true face. When he accepted the opposition parties as the only representative of the ruling coalition then between the New Democracy and the SPS, his real face was shown. You have nicely tried to appear as a nice, decent man, democratic manners, beautiful habits, you treat all MP groups equally, but little by little you show your true character as a politician, but also your ruling coalitions. I would remind you that such discussions were led by representatives of your parliamentary group, then Mr Batic and Vojislav Kostunica, who is now president, Zoran Djindjic as president of an opposition parliamentary group. And they rebelled against the shortening of the discussion, against the unifying of the debate, against the privileges of ministers, the government's representatives in the assembly. This congregation has heard all of this. Just to remind you that we, especially the MPs of the SRS, have already been through this. I was kicked out of this assembly hall five times, that very Dragan Tomic. I hope I have no similar experience with you, that you from these experiences of the SPS, as the ruling majority in this assembly, have learned something. As you started, obviously you didn't. Don't tell any more pathetic speeches, some cover-ups behind citizens' interests, about how MPs should behave here. Every MP's group acts the way she wants to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1839	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1840	The MPs of the SRS act as they wish and as they consider it to be the most correct at the moment. Don't worry about how we behave. It's just our thing. You act as your function commands you, and your function requires you to remain silent, to give your word and to interpret the violation of the Rules of Procedure, when MPs speak of it. As for your sermons, schedule a press conference, then speak as you please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1841	Injury of the Rules of Procedure - Article 99.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1842	Where you're in a hurry, we're not done here. You're seizing your MP's right to make a statement about his proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1843	I have every right, as head of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1844	You have no right to take away the right of any Messenger of the people or your own. That's not correct. Article 28. - "She's getting old on applying the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." So within this obligation, I am authorized to give the notice necessary for the work of the National Assembly. In line with these obligations, I pointed out that this debate, which abuses the assembly speaker, is the only function of disrupting the work of the National Assembly and adopting important legal projects. I have given this assessment by asking the MPs to focus their attention on the proposed legislative projects, without playing with the law entered in the Rules of Procedure anymore, not to abuse this right, to conduct an hour-long debate on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1845	I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1846	I would like to vote on Mr Dragisic's proposal that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, on my part, in relation to Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 27, against 122, with 18 abstentions, it did not vote 27. Total of 194. I find this proposal not accepted. Mr. Seselj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1847	Mr. President, your violation of the Rules of Procedure is so obvious that I say in advance that I don't need any vote. I will only quote Article 99: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. The use of offensive expressions is not permitted, nor is it allowed to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. "You have here called our fight for the protection of parliamentary parliamentary rights, which are systematically threatened, insolent. You know, in the parliamentary practice of the civilized world, unlimited MPs speak and represent their opinion in the National Assembly. Exceptionally, the debate is limited by certain points, on certain issues, in a particular situation. At each session, we are exposed to restrictions on the duration of the debate and the collection for a minimum of five minutes. We're fighting it, and you call our fight for parliamentary rights insolent. Unlike you, Mr. President, as soon as I got into this hall a little while ago, since I was about to mention after and Dejan Popovic, I approached him and asked him -- Dejan, are you the deputy minister or assistant minister, since one newspaper says the deputy, another assistant, so I wouldn't make a mistake from the pay phone? I know that Dejana Popovic was a lifelong desire to become deputy minister, so I don't accidentally hurt him, and I say, assistant minister. He's made his life wish come true, and now he doesn't need to be hurt in that dignity. Unlike me, who I'm so sophisticated and sensitive and delicate about people, you here, not five or six, you say that's just rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1848	I am putting to the vote Mr. Dragan Veselinov's proposal to extend his time of exposure as a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia's act. For 120, against 44, the abstentions, did not vote 29. A total of 193. I find that Mr. Vesenov, as a proposing representative, will have the right to explain the 20-minute proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is probably hard to find in the world a minister of agriculture who is always satisfied with the amount he receives for encouragement, for development and for the protection of agriculture. I mean, probably by sharing the opinion of many, the resources could have been higher. They are at this moment as they allow for the fiscal possibilities of our economy and our citizens. This agrarian budget that is in front of you in real terms, not just in nominal terms, is greater than 25% last year. Of course, ambitions and desires would be greater and it would be good if other activities could be included, other objectives to finance from the appropriations of the Agricultural Budget. This very fact that in the impoverished economy, almost the greatest attention is paid to agriculture, taking it as a basis or as a guarantee of economic development and the guarantee of many credits and funds that will be invested in agriculture, then it is clear that, together with energy, it is probably with traffic and some other areas, it is either the backbone or the backbone of our economic development. It is no wonder that the government has devoted so much attention to the education of the Agricultural Budget. This year's agricultural budget inherits many extremely difficult agricultural situations. Not only because of the drought last year, but because of the extremely poor agricultural policy and the robbery. Last year, the yield of corn was 50% lower than in 1989. The wheat yield was about 40% lower, the sugar tail fell 5 times compared to the 1989 level. Our agrarian machinery is averaged between 17 and 25 years old, depending on the means to be observed. That's where agriculture has to earn a lot of attention. In recent years, we have had an agrarian policy that has destimulated development. In the first place, we had monopolies in the country, which were given exclusive rights to deliberately lower, protected prices that were being called off the federal level, practically rob agriculture and take away its substances. And it's no wonder he's been falling in agricultural production for almost a year. Inheriting this condition, we are only eight weeks in the opportunity to examine what happened before us and what we found. I want to tell you what the previous government stole in agriculture. When we examined the warehouses, the Stock Reserve Directorate, or warehouse, where we kept our national reserves, we found less than 158,000 tons of wheat, we found less than four thousand tons of flour, which corresponds to 61 thousand tons of wheat. We found a shortage or theft of over 62,000 tons of corn, over three thousand tons of sugar, over four thousand tons of pork, over 700 tons of beef, etc. If all the theft was translated into wheat, we'd get a train long from Saturday to Nis, from stolen wheat last year. We're getting a value of 3,795,000.000,00 dinars, which is 75% of the Agricultural budget we're proposing this year. It was stolen by the previous government. If we had that wheat, like we don't have it right now, we could supply 100 days of every citizen in this country with one loaf of 650 grams of bread. If we had this wheat, the price of bread could still be seven and a half dinars today instead of ten. If we had these funds, we could have had almost three and a half years in advance. We could have a lower price of milk for five and a half dinars. So let's help the poor citizens. That's what the previous government did. What do we want to do this year? First of all, we need to settle the obligations that are left behind, because it can no longer happen that debtors beat their creditors, because we had a general robbery in the country. Hence, the condition of citizens' trust, in the government and in this assembly that debtors no longer win the creditors, either through foreign exchange savings, whether through dinar savings, or through mutual relations and debt. The funds we want to settle are over 194 million dinars, but these are not the only obligations of this ministry, or this government. There are obligations left to us by the previous Government, and among other things, orders for individual personal means, for personal consumption, which includes over 700 leather jackets, any leather bags worth several hundred thousand marks, which are not shown here, which fall under the burden of this government. We want first of all to help large livestock. We can help cattle herding by making sure that we do it through the milk premium first, try to push it even further forward. We have established a premium for milk of 30% compared to the assumed price of milk of 12 dinars. We've been raising milk premiums for the first few days since we came and took office by 350%. I think we have made a huge contribution to primary agricultural production, that is, livestock production. That's very important to emphasize. Believe it or not, but the average size of the herd in Serbia is between one and two cows. Hence, maintenance of a premium for milk of capital importance for the improvement of livestock farming. The sugar beet premium is also of paramount importance. I mentioned that last year we had five times less sugar beet production, or since 1989, but it wasn't just the drought. This is also the fault of the agrarian policy of the previous government, and especially the import policy which allowed us to say, in 1996, imports more than 150 thousand tonnes of sugar into the country and to maximumly discourage domestic production of sugar tails, to close several sugars, to reduce production to more than 16,000 hectares. We inherit in many ways this sad situation. That's where we want to keep a 20-pound premium in sugar beet production. Duvan is also a strategic culture, as well as a culture we can expect to export from. This is where we keep the tobacco and design a 24 dinar premium. I want to point out that we will pay great attention to the water industry. At this point in our country, you're not watering more than 1.6%. The main asset, which can be made available to us this year, we want to switch to pushing primary agricultural production. She will wear the lion's share, because it is the government's duty to help agricultural reproduction. It will be extremely helpful for developed agriculture. In recent years, she has been carelessly neglected. Unfortunately, in this budget, the resources for the water industry are insignificant, but we will do everything else, with the help of attracting international funds, revitalise existing systems and build new ones. With a few words of what we will also insist on in the future and what we have done over the past few weeks, and what we serve as a guideline. The already proposed law on sales tax at this session of the Assembly we will abolish the tax on manure, on plant protection, on all agricultural machinery, on livestock food, which is news, as well as on seed sales and on fruit material. This is a major contribution this government will make, assuming that you in the Assembly approve such a move, as this leads to a significant reduction in the cost of production and, of course, to increase the purchasing power of our citizens. We are already making an effort on the basis of our gratitude to the Italian government, that right now in the spring sowing, and we are about to have corn, we share 20,000 tons of Italian diesel, intended for us alone. It is about 40 liters per seed surface or up to 27 liters per orange surface. This government has made the debt situation extremely easy for our economy. This government has reprogrammed debt to the social economy, somewhere in the size of 4.5 billion dinars, which is 85% of the existing Agricultural Budget. This contribution is huge and it greatly facilitates the situation in our social enterprises. We started Azotara in Pancheva, which had been standing in peace for nine months before and almost threatened by oblivion and conservation. We have freed the agricultural market and in this country it will never happen again that the government announces monopolies for the purchase of basic agricultural products. We promised we'd do anything to make the price of wheat a kilo of 32 pfening and 32 pfening her today. We've been handing out flour from the Stock Reserve Directorate for five months to feed the population. Of course, we expected it to be covered by international donations. And now we're doing what we can to protect the population standard, because the dairy industry is selling wheat from the Directorate, from our stock of five dinars per kilogram. It remains to balance the right to buy such wheat between the social and private sectors. We have abolished the highway to register tractors and agrarian machinery, and we have also fulfilled one of the promises in the election campaign that we want to significantly facilitate the situation in our agriculture. It's a guideline for the future. We will seek to bring the agricultural policy into line at the federal and republican level, because the agricultural policy in Serbia's territory can only be one, and that the appropriate governments at the federal, republican level and what can be done at the province level of Vojvodina, it must be harmonised and a single agrarian policy must be conducted with the rights of others to participate in it, in accordance with their competences. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you to approve this proposed agrarian budget, funds for its distribution, or consumption, and to assist the Government with proposals if you think it can be improved at some points. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1850	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the chairman of the Finance Committee, MP Bogdanovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MP, Borislav Pelevic, who delivered an opinion at the defence and security committee session to discuss the 2001 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a People's MP, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1851	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to express my disappointment that most in the Assembly have voted to speak in principle only five minutes about the whole package of these laws. I called on the DOS MPs not only to be silent observers of what is happening in the Assembly, not only to be a voting machine, but to take part in solving such important issues, which are directly affecting our citizens' living standards. Unfortunately, I failed to do so, as did some of my predecessors, but still, not all DOS deputies voted for the discussion to be limited to five minutes. That's what encourages us, because it's obvious that some DOS political groups have started to think slightly differently from most in DOS. Before I say what I want to say about the whole package of legislative measures, headed by the 2001 budget, I would also like to say that I welcome the gesture of Minister Bozidar Djelic, who called on all parliamentary groups to take part in the development of this legislative project. We were at Mr. Djelic's consultation on this, but unfortunately it was only in the global, principle, so we got too late in the details of the bill and we couldn't make any real remarks on these legal projects. However, I think it is a practice to be praised and I recommend it to all other ministers, i.e. the government as a whole, when they make proposals for the following laws, because it is good to consult all parliamentary groups, and positions and opposition, so that the legal projects are good and that they are in favour of all citizens of Serbia. This budget is very precise, very well done technical and consistent with the whole package of legal measures. However, he is good, but not for Serbia. It's good, for example, for Sweden, for Denmark, for Switzerland, for those countries that this budget and these tax burdens can bear. It is not good for Serbia and it is clear that once it has to start with tax reforms, but I think the government has chosen a bad time for it because the economy is in a catastrophic position, and our citizens have been led to the poverty line in the vast majority. Economic policy makers were primarily to throw themselves on the spring set, to develop an economy that had almost failed, to export and to everything else, not to put their hand in Serbia's poor citizen's pocket anyway, and to carry out the attack on anyway, mostly the failed businesses and the failed economy in Serbia. The state wants to take as much money as it needs. She doesn't care about the economy or the poor. This budget has been made to know that foreign donations will not be made, even though they will not be in the extent to which DOS has promised citizens in the election campaign. Therefore, the budget must fill the already impoverished population and the failed economy, which not only has not been disbursed, but is also burdened by additional taxes, such as the 3.5% profit tax. The government, which predicts that it collects 55 billion dinars from sales tax, and from the income tax on citizens of 25 billion dinars, apparently believes that citizens still have some foreign and dinar reserves in straws, or socks, and that they can pay for it. Unfortunately, I can't, and that's what every store manager in Serbia will tell you, because as you know and as the newspapers write daily, traffic in stores has fallen terribly, because people don't have the money to buy what they need for life. As of today, the price of bread is 10 dinars, or since yesterday, but already today all managers claim that there has been a significant drop in the turnover of bread, the purchase of bread. Of course people will have to buy bread, but as they buy it, they probably just know it. In economic reform, we start from tax, which is not good. 230 different taxes and taxis are abolished. Only six or seven are introduced. These six or seven taxes tax everything but bread, milk and air. Since bread has already been collected from yesterday to 10 dinars and milk has already been collected and costs 23 dinars, the question is how it will survive from 4,087 dinars, what is the average salary in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1852	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1853	I'll just honor the weather. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1854	Since there are no more MPs who have singled out opinions, there are no more. Dragoljub Vojnovic, from the scene: Is it a question whether the reports want a word? ) Please, let us understand, as far as the rapporteurs of the committees are concerned, you are asked, no one has answered the word. We've moved on to the MPs who've singled out their opinions. We can't take the session back. The word is given by representatives of the parliamentary groups. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: May I, have you given me your word?) Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is impossible to speak comprehensively of the six proposed, large-scale laws, system-based, crucial for such a short time as is foreseen. That's why I'm going to try to single out only what's most characteristic of the laws, of course critical, but by admitting to the government where there's a good move, there's really a good move. It's a good thing this government, this time through a single budget, has shown almost all public spending. We were bound by the law a few years ago, but every year it was delayed for the next year. That's what's positive, so public spending is more transparent. But this budget is unrealistic, it cannot be met and 22 billion budget deficits are projected in advance. It is interesting how the government intends to cover the budget deficit. With donations and loans from abroad, 12 billion dinars. That's 400 million marks per current course. But, gentlemen, where are those six billion marks? We were expecting, since you came to power, there is now no reason for our country not to get those six billion marks. They're not there and you admit to the public that there won't be any, but perhaps only 400 million marks will be collected for the whole year, conditionally, under a large questionnaire. Then you're saying that part of the budget deficit of 10 billion will be compensated by the privatisation process. You mean you have no intention of taking the privatisation process seriously this year, nor do you have any serious prospects in that direction, because only by selling Beicino cements would we get these 300 million marks or you're thinking of spending something else. It would be good for the Prime Minister to plead on this matter. Furthermore, in the budget law you plan 500 million dinars in the hands of Nebojsa Covic. You're talking about the needs of the Bujanovac, Medvedja and Presevo municipalities. This coordination body is not a permanent state body, not by law a budgetary user, a beneficiary of budgets, has no legal basis for it to use budget funds. So how come you're giving that one body of ad hoc, formed, that doesn't have a legal basis, 500 million? Everything the military spends in the area is foreseen in the military budget. Anything used by the police is foreseen in the police section of the republican budget. Then why Covic's money? For hotel expenses, travel bills, feasts, 500 million dinars? A million and three hundred thousand a day for a year, Nebojsa Covic. How he's gonna spend that money is not clear to us. Why didn't you bring Nebojsa Covic here to explain how he thinks he spends a million and three hundred thousand a day. How is that possible? What's he gonna buy? Here said Agriculture Minister Dragan Veselinov that the government has kept its promise and is now wheat 32 pfening. Now the fuel for peasants is 24 dinars, and at the time of the previous government wheat was 52 pfening, but first the fuel was 9, then 12 dinars. There was one, and the fact that it's been stolen a lot, it's been stolen even now. Those who steal are the others. You DOS have taken them over and you'll see how much trouble they're having with the middlemen. You don't have any other agents for fuel distribution. They're the same, you didn't liquidate them and bring new ones from the imports. They're the same people, from the county chief, through various businesses that deal with it. Fuel was enough in the Serbian government. From government to fuel consumers, part of that fuel went black market. Now we have the price of fuel twice as expensive. Everything else is more than twice as expensive and therefore the price of wheat should be 44 pfening so that the farmer, the agricultural producer, should be at the level of August or July of last year. The farmer's position has failed. He's a lot worse than he was, and that's the point. Next, you here in the traffic tax law -- time's already up, and I'm only up to the third law, and time's up, I'm so sorry. You're simplifying the tax system and that's good. Taxes are reduced and tax returns are much simpler and that's what's good, but for many goods, taxes are too high and they can't be tolerated. Many goods, which were previously exempt from tax, have now been taxed. For example, books. And the communists used to release books from sales taxes at Tito's time, all books except ham and pornography, and now you're taxing all the books. Let your amendments go, we haven't reached the amendment. I'm talking about government, not parliamentary amendments. Is that an amendment to the government or an MP? (Government) The government changed their mind? Why didn't you let us know? Where's that amendment? I didn't get it. We saw our amendment, so the government was doing better than that. That's positive. You've got another step here. Intellectual services are freed, and intellectual products are not tax-free. I guess intellectual products are more important than intellectual services. I guess it's more important to write a novel or a good song than to read that novel or recite that song in front of an audience. It's so unserious that I'm really startled. It's a good thing you freed the fertilizer from paying sales taxes. I said where you do well I'll commend you, but you haven't freed many other things. Now you don't pay taxes on bread. What good is bread is more than 10 dinars. No milk is paid, and milk is 24 dinars, the most common packaging, but everything else is taxed, and even on juices, taxes are paid on oil, on many other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1856	I'm asking you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1857	I have two laws left, Mr. President. You see, I'm a little five minutes old, and I haven't had an empty walk, and I haven't spent a minute uselessly. You taxed everything but bread, milk, air and fertilizer. This is where we heard the Minister of Agriculture pours crocodile tears and makes empty promises. It is impossible for ministers to conduct irrigation until sufficient amounts of static manure are provided. You can't irrigate a field where you don't throw land manure. That's what the minister would have to know. Where only artificial fertilizer is going is the wrong irrigation, destroys the country, the country can't recover for years. There are ingredients in the country that irrigate irrigation even after a while if the country is not refurbished with natural manure it is useless. How am I going to learn when you're only giving me five minutes here, and the minister doesn't know anything? The Minister of Agriculture has grown this big, he knows how to paint his hair, but he has no idea about agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1858	There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1859	I'm reporting in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Section 144 has been injured. Rules of Procedure at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. First, today's session of the Finance Committee was not held. Yesterday's isn't over and all the agenda points aren't finished. The debate at the Committee on Finance on Amendments of People's MPs was not and has not been completed, and by calling and giving words to representatives of Parliament clubs, a debate on the package of laws has been opened. Therefore, I ask that this assembly be made known about the following facts - firstly, to suspend the meeting until the committees have completed their work, that all committees deliver their reports to the Finance Committee, that the Finance Committee is sitting, that the debate should be concluded on all proposed laws on the agenda today, and that the amendment proposed by the MPs under this proposal for a package of laws should be completed. Secondly, I think the adoption of such a proposal of the agenda has made it a series of failures. The first one was to hold a debate on the final budget account for the past year, to hold a debate on the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, which is absolutely independent and system law, for the basic reason why, in the proposal for a law on public income and public expenditure, there are new types of income. We are having a budget debate here, we have already entered a budget debate, and we are not discussing the types of revenue that will allow the revenue side of the budget. New revenues are being introduced. Maybe that doesn't interest anyone, maybe he thinks we can jump this area any way we want, but I don't think we can. Here they are from the pay phone given to the citizens - and we will cut income taxes, etc. All the people will see it when they get a tax settlement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1860	As far as I know, and I think we'll agree to that, there's an open debate, a common principle search. The Finance Committee has declared itself in this part, it has not declared its amendments, or, not all amendments, and it will do so, but a decision has been made and the Committee has declared itself to the laws in principle. ( Dragan Tomic, from the O.R.: Not all the laws. ) We need to agree whether the Finance Committee has spoken of all the laws in principle. If it is, I don't think you're right, and if it isn't, then we're taking a break until this job is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1861	Since I am a member of the Committee on Finance, so far three committee sessions have been held, except for the first session, where we discussed and proposed that the Committee on Finance, meaning we did not insist on this being a proposal from the MPs (please pay attention, so that we would really adopt these laws in a quality way and discuss them)... I'm saying this because this kind of breaking in 2 - 3 segments of this package of laws will not give citizens of Serbia an overall tax package of laws and a coverage that will be seen in tax solutions. A lot will happen under these tax laws. Please, at least when it comes to the tax area, we'll take care of it. First, the more basic thing that yesterday's session isn't over, and I'd like to see the minutes from that third session, which I've attended to the end of the session, is the end of the agenda, and that's what I'd like to see. You can write whatever you want, that's not true. I didn't get it, as a member of the board. This morning, I arrived at 9:00 a.m. for the fourth session of the Finance Committee, which was not held, and this was not held in the absence of MPs from opposition political parties, but because of the absence of MPs from the DOS coalition. I ask the President of the Committee to confirm this fact. Am I right or am I wrong? It cannot be discussed in principle without a report from the Financial Committee. No reports of all the committees that conducted the debate under these tax laws have been submitted to the Finance Committee. Secondly, the total coverage of the amendment proposed in this package of tax laws was not on the Finance Committee. Therefore, I ask that the debate be terminated, that a session of the Committee on Finance and the other committees who have not completed their work be held, that, after the meeting of the Committee, the Committee of Directors should be made known when it comes to the tax laws packages, on these issues, and only then, should the session continue, although I think the Legislative Committee should also be seated.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1862	We had a violation of the Rules of Procedure here. That's not what the debate is about, of course. How I can't judge at this point what this is about, who's right or wrong, and we're getting closer and so on for a regular break, I suggest we continue our work in an hour and a half, that is, when the conditions are obtained. No discussion now, we'll do it in the second part of the session. I'm taking a break now. The Finance Committee, which was planning to work in the break, will have a session immediately in the IV-story room. [[Resuming session after break - 15.25 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please set up your cards in the MPs to see if we have any conditions to continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, no doubt we have MPs in the O.R. who did not comply with Article 80. The Rules of Procedure and when entering the O.R. have not been identified by carding, I ask them to do so or leave the O.R. because it is evident that we have sufficient numbers present in the O.R. without everyone respecting their parliamentary obligations. If they don't want to give the quorum, which is, of course, their right, then they should leave the gym, otherwise we get in trouble. I realize we have the quorum needed to work. We can continue with the session. No, but those who took my advice and called for a member of the 80s did their parliamentary duty, unlike those of you who throw you out of place. [[Sagar.]] We're going back to work. We've broken up so we have the presidents of the parliamentary groups now, do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups come forward for a word? Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1864	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must repeat Article 164 once again. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, which accurately states that the draft budget will be discussed by the committees of the National Assembly and their reports with reasoned proposals submitted to the Committee on Finance. The Financial Committee shall consider the draft budget and reports of individual committees and shall report it to the National Assembly. Accordingly, it is obvious that we could not even begin this debate before the parent committees delivered their report to the Finance Committee and before the Finance Committee delivered its reports to this assembly. That's one finding. I won't ask to vote, but to know that this is another addition to the fact that we have again, for who knows which time, combined the debate. I must say that there are only two laws in the system of the legislation of the Republic of Serbia that are particularly treated in the Rules of Procedure. It is the Law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia and the Budget Law, which are particularly treated in the process of consideration and adoption. We, in a desire to deny the right of the MPs to more detailedly analyse the proposed laws, essentially not us but the majority belonging to DOS, decided to bring the debate together, not only did we bring the debate together but we gave only five minutes for all six legislative projects. So much for a single approach that clearly does not lead us to the basic objective of MPs in this assembly, which is that by working together, correctly, by considering proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we come up with legislative projects that will allow the government to have a quality government and manage this country, but also give Serbian citizens solutions that will enable them to live and work better in this country. This is one suggestion to you. Now I would like to start my discussion, which I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, because by the rule that you've made, I have three times five minutes to speak, to allow me to use it twice in five minutes now, and to retain as president of the parliamentary group the right to report, possibly in the event of a need once again, five minutes, Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1865	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1866	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to remind you of article 69. The Republic of Serbia's 3rd position -- the obligation to pay taxes and other taxes -- is determined according to the economic strength of the taxpayers. It is a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which apparently the government, proposing legal projects, did not have to consider. Why? Tax captures are projected to amount to 55 billion dinars, which means they increased by nearly 30 billion dinars compared to last year. On the basis of what, when it is known that the major decline in Serbia's standards has been since September 2000. These interventions, which have almost an effect of more than 30 billion dinars, essentially go to the widest category of population, i.e. the poorest population. Whether to say that sales tax is also a consumption tax and is also paid by the end-user, i.e. the buyer. This was about taking care of children. Do you say that new taxes are being introduced here or that existing taxes are increasing, for example. for children's diapers, children's shoes, children's dressing room, school dressing room, excises on many items of vital importance for the household. There is therefore no debate on the social category of proposed legislative projects and laws. In order for the irony to be greater, those who plan to handle more than 30 billion compared to last year put 10% of these funds into a special fund that they call a single-aid fund, a fund that has not previously defined the distribution criteria and one-time assistance, a fund that is ultimately neither defined nor precise and managed by the finance minister. So to take another 30 billion dinars, we say to the socially endangered -- we'll give you back three billion dinars and be happy about what we think of you. The worst part is, the budget isn't consolidated. Non-consolidated budget induces inflation. The worst inflation that can happen in one country is exactly inflation of budgetary origin. There is no solidarity in the proposed legislative projects, and absolute centralised has been carried out. It is right to conclude that the government's budget reflects, as a synthetic document, the government's overall social and economic policy for the year. If that's how we look at the proposal, then this budget can't be taken, it shouldn't be accepted. There are many reasons for this definition, but due to limited time, I will only mention the most important ones. The budget was not preceded by a view of the country's overall economic situation, especially in the economy. Here, the prime minister today said that only 25% of the country's capacity is working. So the further fall since September 2000 is present. You can't see how much and in what ways we're going to create a social product to pay for the budget. There is no consolidated balance and public income and expenditure, including social protection funds, pension and disability insurance, health care, labour market and the Federation budget. The total distribution of the social product has not been considered and no expenditure for individual purposes has been determined on the basis of the total distribution. The budget is the largest of all the so far held by the state of Serbia in its history. The expenditure is not consistent with the revenues, so it is amazing to suggest, beyond all accounting and other financial regulations, that the right side is bigger than the left, i.e. that the exit is bigger than the entrance. Naturally, this budget is inflatable. Its adoption, and especially its execution, must have an effect on inflation. The estimated revenues and for a deficit budget like this, can't be charged. There is an enormous increase in tax with unfair social burden, as the increase is most pronounced in those categories of population that are the poorest and that have been protected in the current economic policy. Specially burdened service activities. All of this, in addition to shooting down standards, will affect the reduction of business activities on the domestic market. As for going out into the world, no European Union preferences are helping anymore, because our economy, especially agriculture, will have nothing to bring to the European market. They're completely out of sync with the Federation. According to federal law, the Federation belongs to 40% of the sales tax, and by the republic, that would be 23%. An unequal relationship with the provinces is being established. Specially defined is the financing of Vojvodina, especially Kosovo and Metohija, for which there is no basis in the laws. Even the provinces of Kosovo and Metohija are excluded from Serbia, as Kosovo and Metohija are only considered in one single position, of course, in the finance minister's power and according to its exclusive definition in which the funds should go. We in the province of Kosovo and Metohija still have the level of local self-government and we have a number of strategic and national interests to worry about, and surely, we have an obligation to bring the AP Kosovo and Metohija budget, the same as to bring the AP Vojvodina budget. The attitude towards municipalities, the local self-government, is exactly the opposite of what is publicly declared. High centralisation of funds is provided, and everything is reduced to the will of individual ministers, somewhere in the government, which is essentially the same. With this budget already on April 1st, we certainly have mass gatherings. There is no solidarity at the state level, there is no salary for those who remain unemployed, and there are no apartments of solidarity. There's an interesting situation about the apartments of solidarity. The Solidarity Houses Fund is being abolished, separations are being abolished for this purpose, although hundreds of thousands of families have found a chance to solve their housing problem. In contrast, municipalities are allowed to affect a special municipal tax, but not define the purpose. That's the point. The municipal tax is abolished, the separation for apartments of solidarity is abolished, municipal tax is given, but municipalities are not obliged to single out for apartments of solidarity and for municipal infrastructure. The development of investments in development projects, according to the amount of funds allocated to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, are without any perspective and hope that anything will start from what stands today, with the largest number of major giants of the Serbian economy standing. One small analysis of the authority for cca 19 billion and 100 million dinars, for those who forget it and for those who will never forget it, this country has singled out that figure of around 19 billion dinars to rebuild the country after NATO aggression. For 19 billion dinars, it means, for those funds spent on the country as a whole, the electricity system is put on its feet and operates in the coldest winter of the last century, the powers of consumption are as follows: it is given the right of the finance minister to decide on five billion and 100 million; it is given the right to decide on three billion for consumption from the social fund for one-off, and it is not yet defined in advance by the criteria by which it will spend that money, its purpose is not defined precisely, nor is it essentially legal; a billion and a half are given for the Structural Adjustment Fund. Why is this Structural Adjustment Fund not put into Serbia's Development Fund, because Serbia's Development Fund is a legal body, working under the law, has its own board of directors? The chairman of the board of directors is the Prime Minister, the composition is known, the purpose is known, the control is known. No, that puts the finance minister at his disposal, exclusively his availability, a billion and a half dinars without criteria, without legal basis, 600 million is put into one fund, the finance minister, for bank restructuring. Why is this, too, because the banks that have to start this economy, which is rightly said to work only 25%, are not located again in the Serbian Development Fund, which knows the purpose, which is controlled, which has a board of directors and knows what it is doing? No, it's lodged within 5 billion and 100 million dinars at the royal disposal of the finance minister, without criteria, without legal basis and without purpose. We can only expect that the 600 million could be found in the Cepter Bank, as Mr Dinkic placed 60% of the funds of the National Bank of Yugoslavia in the Cepter Bank. Four billion, under an economic subsidy company, according to the bus industry, are being made available to the energy minister. If economic subsidies are at stake, four billion dinars have room to go back to the Republic of Serbia Development Fund, where there is a completely legal basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1867	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1868	Seven billion are made available to the minister of traffic, for the ZTP and the travel economy, with no criteria, there is no way or why, what goes and how much goes into the railways, how much goes into the travel industry. In the end, three billion goes to the Minister of Construction, for Kolubara, although there is a stalker, a law passed in this assembly, a mechanism of consumption and control. Finally, it is foreseen in the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, if these proposals are not accepted, that it has only 477 million dinars. Then it's better to shut it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1869	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? He has the word Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not clear to me that today we are discussing system laws, so budget and tax laws, without having previously considered and adopted the final budget bill for 2000. It would be the same as adopting a development plan and a development programme for this year without adopting a final bill. It would be the same when we adopt a plan and a work programme for this year at a sports club or in a sports alliance without adopting a report for last year. So these are some economic anomalies, which are really incomprehensible to me. In my previous presentation, I said that instead of 230 taxes, taxes and contributions, it is abolished, and only 6 or 7, is introduced, and what is generally very good, and how is today popularly said transparently, and what will be said, transparently and clearly. I prefer Serbian words to foreign ones. These taxes apply to everything, and I've said it except bread, milk, mineral fertilizer, green market, air. If we know that the bread is very expensive, that the milk is expensive, then it goes into the crowd. As far as the excise law is concerned, it should be said that there are really increases enormously high. For example, for motor gasoline and for all the types of fuel we use for cars, the excise tax used to be 3.32 a liter, and today it's 16 dinars per litre. Does this mean that 16 dinars will be fuelled, i.e. 16 minus 3.32, or as the minister said earlier, in a television show, that there will be a reduction difference. However, we do not see from this budget and tax laws what the reductions are. We, as MPs, see the information that instead of 3.32 gallons of gasoline, there will be 16 dinars. If that's the case, then the gas will cost at least 48 dinars in the sale, and what will it say about the brand and 60 pfening. As we know, the fuel item is included in the price of all products used in the household and all foods and all vital products. That means it's going to cause chain-gathering, through the cost of transport costs. For diesel it was 2.68, and now it's 8.70. What a blow it is to all those who drive on diesel fuel, and especially to our agricultural producers, is clearly seen from this item. We had a hatching oil, where it was an excise of 2.55, and now it's 5 dinars and 40 per litre, as you know, there won't be enough heating, and probably not enough electricity. The question is how will people who heat up on vine oil without talking about motor oils, where there was no excise duty on liters before, and today there are 50 dinars, or when this law is passed, and certainly will be adopted, given that DOS has a large majority in this House. So, we've got a chain-gathering coming up. If we understand and accept this fact, which has already been announced, that electricity will collect 100% on average, then it is clear that electricity collection will also reflect on all products of vital importance for the Serbian population. What's good in the tax bill, which is more taxing citizens who are very rich. It's fairies taxes, yachts, airplanes, luxury car with big cubics, as well as similar, but those rich are small. For them, there won't be a special blow to those several thousand marks a year, they won't be too discouraged and they won't be overly burdened, but for ordinary people, several thousand dinars per year on everything and everything they use, every day, will be a great burden. There are many of them, and they are certainly about 95 and more in the population of this country. The government has also taxed food, medicines, funeral equipment, electricity, and this will most be affected by those who now live on the edge of existence, workers, farmers, pensioners, teachers, teachers, teachers, health workers and all others. The government has also sinned by taxing diapers, baby food, school supplies, learning, and Serbia is suffering from the white plague anyway. More people die than they are born. In 25 years, we will be a Serb national minority in our own country, and obviously this is an example, that the new government is not taking care of it, does not care about the development of the Serbian nation, children and family, as well as the future of a complete Serbian nation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1871	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1872	Thank you very much, I'll continue in the next presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1873	Here you go. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1874	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened with attention to the heads of opposition MPs' groups, and before I enter the budget analysis that we went out with, I will try to make some use of what they said as my predecessors did. In fact, I'm starting to assume that everything they've said and done is in the best interest. However, apart from the criticism that is well-problemed, because it is largely driven by those who have brought us and brought ten years of government into the state we are currently in, we have not heard any concrete proposals for the resolution of all the controversial problem points, which are undoubtedly in the proposal that we have come before the MPs of the Republic Assembly. If we simply view the budget as the capacity of our society to provide certain resources, to meet the needs, then we will see that the Government and the DOS, who tried to respect such a single relationship to the maximum, are facing huge problems. In fact, our needs are much greater than our ability to meet these needs. It raises the question whether to lie to the public of this country, whether to double-cross society and offer a budget that will be filled with phantom loans, which will be filled with various taxes with problematic bases, a budget that will be filled with the sale of villas on Dedinj, a budget that will be filled with 12 pensions, 24 allowances for children, 26 allowances for families that the state is obliged to hold or 36 pensions for peasants. We're not ready for that kind of forced lie. We won the elections because we came out with a clear political programme, which included the root reforms of our society. This reform will be painful and our obligation as authorities is that we all participate equally in this reform. There are no victims of someone's success in this reform. I think that we have absolutely succeeded through the proposal that we went before this House. The budget has its own political character, the budget has its own economic character and has its social character. In all these domains, we have insisted on equal rights for the citizens of this country to participate in the allocation of funds from the budget, but no less or less equal rights for citizens, i.e. the obligation to go out to the maximum level to meet the budget and the requirements that the budget sets out for them. This is not a budget to be spent on reviving or maintaining Milosevic's repressive apparatus. This is a budget to unblock the repressive power. This is a budget aimed at education and health care, but in such a way that it takes care of the future, about 2002, about 2003, through the funds that will be handled by hospitals, investments in schools, this is the budget that primarily takes care of what the simple word considers to be life. When we talk about all those critical points that my predecessors pointed out here, I'd like us to talk in another way, in a way that concrete proposals to fill out certain budget deficits. Education, health care, social programs, security forces, economic restructuring, investment, in itself, are not profitable jobs. An officer on a mission cannot make a profit, a health care doctor cannot make a profit under an existing health care law. A teacher at school can't make a profit. If you are talking about the funds charged through sales taxes, they are the only sources of real income and we will insist on them. In all transition countries, the basis is applied uniquely to each type of budget burden. We insisted on it, 17% plus 3% for the federal state, 17% of the tax is the lowest tax rate in the countries of transition, and that is the effort we have made and that is the maximum effort we could make in terms of facilitating the situation in our budget needs. As far as agriculture is concerned, in agriculture, we've freed taxes on fertilizer, pesticides, taxes on livestock, taxes on agricultural machinery. No government has ever done that before. Everyone's mouth was full of taking care of the peasants, but they didn't give 36 pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1875	You've copied everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1876	We may have prescribed something, but we'll apply it. You were never prepared to apply such a thing, except that you were prepared to deceive our public through that form. As for the care of education, the books, the government has tabled amendments where certain costs will be financed through state authorities. So what one of my predecessors said is simply not true. No one has the right to use funds from the budget in an illegal manner, no one has the right to have funds in a way that would involve secret accounts, special accounts, funds, and that is very clear in what we have proposed here today for the vote. I think that the DOS Parliamentary Group is obliged and that it will certainly have the courage to engage in changes that in the short term will be painful changes, but they will have a concrete result, the improvement of life in the country in which we want to live in the future, which should not look as we have received it from you in your legacy. As for the opposition, I think you've had enough time to show everything that could have been done and that any kind of criticism you're investing in today must be upgraded by an explanation of why you haven't applied that criticism to yourself. We're in a position to have 400 amendments on our schedule. We are in a situation where by Thursday we have to adopt this budget, so that local self-government authorities can vote their budgets on Friday. The assembly cannot push municipalities and cities into breaking the law, and you, by your unreasonable relationship, in a rational proposal limiting the discussion to five minutes, are challenging. Thank you. (Apalaus in the O.R.) ) (Serb Radical Party emissaries speak out loud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1877	Third call, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1878	Mr. Prime Minister, I apologize for not welcoming you last time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not nice to call an unreasonable procedure to submit a number of amendments, unfortunately it seems only from the ranks of opposition parties. I just want to remind you, last year's budget was adopted with 800 amendments, no one was wrong, but people were heard. There's only one cure for normal budget filling, and that's an increase in production. Unfortunately, from September 2000 to today, we have a decline in production and we know very well why we have a constant decline in production, because crisis headquarters have driven out capable, professional people and brought new ones who don't know how to work their jobs. Secondly, workers have lost their motivation to work, you have abolished their own transformation law and told them that this company is no longer theirs. Many of them gave up their wages to expand their production capacity, to acquire new production equipment, investing in companies that experienced as their own. You, removing the Law on your own transformation, abolishing their chance of autonomously transforming and experiencing an enterprise as their own, took away their motive to work at all. Next, he's here, for this speaker, he's made several important suggestions. The budget is significantly higher than last year's budget and no one objected to what is greater for the field of education, for the field of health care, for the area of social giving. Mr. Cedo Jovanovic, all that is late is equal to 19.5 billion dinars spent in rebuilding the country after NATO aggression. Therefore, if there were no aggression, there would be no social giving, there would be no late retirement, no rest. As far as the repressive regime is concerned, I just want to say, to you from the DS, the repressive SPS regime has never drawn up statements reminding him that the president of the SPS and the prime minister of the government and that he orders that people be arrested and charged against them. Exactly, in your free and democratic regime, that's what you do. [[Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I have a replica, do I have a right to a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1879	Now you've got me confused, this was Mr. Ivkovic's third call, this was a replica of meaning? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I, too, have the right to the replica. I accept that you have deceived me, so I must give the word to Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1880	Mr Jovanovic, for two and a half years, as far as the SRS took part in the government, we have come across various ways to get extra money for social funds, to settle public obligations, to pay public service employees. My idea was a tax on the mobile phone of 100 dinars, you all attacked me from DOS, constantly in the pre-election campaign, and now you're introducing a tax on the mobile phone 200 dinars a month. Inflation must be 50% and dinar devaluation, the brand was 20 dinars, and now it's 30 dinars and it's 50%, and 50% seems to have devalued your morale. It is easy to make a list of good wishes through this budget, but the problem is that this budget is invaluable. We could have taxed everything, the sun from the sky, and the air and the water, and the green grass, but who's going to pay those taxes? Your problem is that you've prescribed taxes nicely that no one will be able to pay. This little company that's left, and we know who they are, and they won't survive either. The vast majority of companies have already failed. That's the problem. It's easy to prescribe a huge tax, but how to charge it from one who can barely breathe. Secondly, you attacked us for various regulations. We've been making regulations to help agriculture, anti-monopolis regulations and so on. You're now making an anti-constitutional regulation, and you all know it's against the constitution. You're introducing a monopoly on oil and oil derivatives, directly against the constitution. What do you care? The express constitution says, and that's the 64th and 66th, you quoted that member as I recall, Mr. President, and what does that mean? Step on the Constitution to restore the monopoly on oil imports. Now he's only going to import oil to whom the government gives permission. For ten years, when you and I were oppositionists, we fought against import-export contingents and license systems, so in that bitter struggle, we managed to get other parties to come down to quotas. It's registered to a certain amount, it can import whoever it wants until a certain quantity is imported. When the quota is filled, it can no longer be imported, in order to prevent the minister from granting an import licence and that is the biggest source of corruption. Only the mobsters will now be able to import those mobsters who are in the merciful minister. The constitution prohibits monopolies, the constitution sanctions the introduction of any monopolies, and you make a nice monopolies regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1881	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1882	What does that mean? And secondly, you won nothing but the weakness of the previous government and your promises of six billion dollars. Where's six billion dollars, give those six billion dollars, so you don't need taxes. You have enough to budget, taxes can be lifted. If you cancel your taxes, you'll be in power most of the time. Now you almost double your existing taxes and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1883	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1884	Ladies and gentlemen, I asked you in the opening statement, I hope that we have a common interest in having an expert discussion, not a demagogue, and I asked you for one principle, which is that whoever says that too much has been charged to tell who needs to be reduced to the other side. I ask you, for the sake of respect of the citizens and for the respect of Parliament, to respect it if it is necessary to reduce the inflow and tax on one side, to tell exactly who to take on the other side. Don't say it at the same time -- there's not much teachers, there's not much doctors, there's little for the police, there's little for pensions, and on the other hand you say -- there's a lot of pressure. Either one or the other. Don't mind anyone, it's inconclusive and it's not worthy of a democratic Serbian parliament. Please, I hope that's the last time I have to intervene, talk about real things, not nominal things. The nominally, indeed, this budget is higher than last year, but inflation in 2000 was 120%. That means, what happened last year, the same thing today is twice as much. That's one thing. The second thing is, for the first time in this budget, there's been a lot of things that haven't been in the budget before, so there seems to be a lot more. Mr Djelic did not have time, he prepared a big presentation to make it look nice in our budget if we had excluded everything that was previously excluded from it. It would be very elegant, it would be light, you could vote it in five minutes, because it would be 50 billion. But that wouldn't be the budget. That would be a scam. What Mr Djelic said and what I want with responsibility to confirm, taxes are not higher than they were, only now are called taxes. The gas will be 38 dinars, but the state will take, you know exactly how much they'll take, 16 or 18 dinars, and they won't take through this tax, this contribution, that tax, because then they didn't know who was taking and on what basis. That only means what was called before. Taxes on this, taxes on that, are now called taxes, because we are a democratic country and we charge taxes. As for the major effects in the construction of the country of the Country Development and Reconstruction Directorate, come Mr. Ivkovic, every day come people who have not been paid, thousands of companies who have been miserable, who have worked for free, and you have brought you into your results as your terrible contribution. This was built by the poor people with a promise that they would be paid. It's now being charged to this government as a debt. All your reconstruction was on someone else's account, as your entire authority was in a foreign account. To be fair and talk on a really collegiate basis and say whether teachers, whether pensioners, whether people in health care should get less. [[Applause]] If they need to get less say how much less, then let's vote on it and then on the other hand let's see how to cut those taxes from which they get it. If we reach agreement as a Assembly, there's no problem, but don't let us as a government tomorrow take unions and you support them, and on the other hand we're reducing those resources from which we're supposed to pay these people. Let's discuss it and forget the parties, because this isn't a party budget. This isn't made as a deal between political parties. This is the budget of salvation after your 10 years of government and budget collapse. Do something small, help us save the country a little bit from what you've ruined over the past 10 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1885	I am pleased that Prime Minister Djindjic called for constructiveness, to forget the parties and in this direction the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and act in this parliament all the time calling for us to listen to each other and for the amendments proposed by the opposition to be seen in the interest of improving the solution. I just want to say that the taxes used to be 9% and 20%, that now they're all 17% and that many products and services are particularly, which so far have not been taxed, cautious. That's right. However, I have made concrete suggestions here, and I think the proposals are to be considered. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, led by you as Prime Minister, has a dedicated task, the Governing Board is set up, it is the minister of science and technology, composed of leading Serbia's development. There is no progress without economic development. That is why I have suggested that you measure that the Structural Adjustment Fund is a billion-and-a-half economy, that the Bank Restructure Fund of 600 million, that the ZTP and the 7 billion-dollar road economy, go all the way to Serbia's Development Fund. Then there is a chance that more positive interventions will take place in the economy. I think it's a proposal that's very constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1886	Mr. President, I appeared immediately after Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, head of the DOS Parliamentary Group on replication. In his presentation, Mr Jovanovic stated that we saw how many oppositions, which is now the opposition in Parliament, and earlier was power, had done for this country and had shown what they knew and could do. I'd just like to ask for one correction. The Serbian Unity Party is also the opposition party in this parliament, and it was not in power in the previous period, so I ask Mr Jovanovic and all other MPs to take this into account in their next presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1887	Before I give my word to Mr. Seselj for the second time, I would only ask that we all remind ourselves together that we have amended the Rules of Procedure and that the provisions relating to the replica are something different than they were in the previous one. I would like to ask you for a moment to read that "if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself to a MP from another member of the Parliament by quoting his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication". So far we have deviated from this rule, but I ask you to keep this in mind when reporting for replication and to help this assembly go in line together. Second call from Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think Mr Pelevic should have called, since Cedomir Jovanovic attacked only the opposition here, and the opposition is just us who voted against the government, not you who voted for the government. As for Mr. Djindjic, Mr. Djindjic, there's no need to defend yourself against what we didn't even attack you for. I commended your simplification of the tax system and that's fine. It's a good thing there's a little tax, it's a good thing there's a simplified tax shortage. We wouldn't mind a budget of 120 billion dinars if it were possible for Napalti, but taxpayers can imagine themselves as one flock of sheep, and you as the president of the Spanish government. If you're a safestin choban, you'll make sure you feed your sheep, you'll make sure when you cut them and cut them, so you won't cut them in the snow, on the ice, you won't cut them too often, but you'll make sure that you cut them when the sun is strong, when the sheep can stand it, so make sure they have hay, that they have water, that they have salt, etc. You've introduced an excise on salt here, which has never existed before. So you have to make sure you don't kill taxpayers by taxing. That's the point. You're going this way towards their liquidation. After this, no one will ever think about being legally involved in business again. Secondly, here you have presented to us the budget for this year as a single budget covering all public spending. However, one of these legal projects has now found a new valve for creating budget spending beyond this budget. So far, the entire budget of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina and Kosovo has been contained in the Republic of Serbia's budget. You have now introduced the possibility that the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, apart from the money it receives from the budget, has the opportunity to make budget revenues on its own, even by prescribing the province's administrative fees. So, in addition to all these duties that exist, you're opening up the possibility of new ones. But you have neither constitutional nor legal coverage. The province can't prescribe fees, not according to the Constitution, not according to the law. You're breaking the Constitution again. Next, here you predict income from interest on the AP deposited at banks. What banks? Why didn't you find out exactly which banks were going to deposit state funds in? We worked in the government for two and a half years. We didn't make it. Why don't you try, you can try now. You have no one to bargain with now. I guess you're unique now, DOS. A voice from the O.R.: The National Bank. ) At the National Bank, the National Bank gave to the Bank of Cepter. Is that true, what we just heard, 60% at the cepter bank -- what does that mean? Furthermore, the proceeds from the sale of immovable property and mobile things used by AP authorities - what are these immovableities that the AP can sell? All these are the immovableities of the Republic of Serbia. The AP doesn't have property, it doesn't have movement, it doesn't have anything to sell. You're acting counter-constitutional again. That's why every one of these laws should have been held in a special debate. You know, I have to talk about the budget, I have to talk about the agrarian budget, I have to talk about this, I have to talk about that, I can't say everything in such a short time. You broke the Constitution here again. You say the proceeds from the sale of the AP share capital. The AP doesn't have any share capital, do you plan on attributing them to some action capital? Without a change of constitution, you can't do that either. You of the province and through this are trying to create a state, and you can't do that and you can't. This is against the constitution. This has to fall in the Constitutional Court, but now I hear, we don't even have a Constitutional Court, I hear the number of judges has fallen below 50%. In a state where there is no Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court is prescribed by the Constitution, the legal order has been eliminated. Therefore, you can introduce a regulation on the seduction of monopoly on imports of oil and petroleum products, because there is no Constitutional Court. Now who's to lift you or undo that regulation? There's no one. Now you can also pass this anti-constitutional law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expension to bring counter-constitutional, you know that it is anti-constitutional, there is no Constitutional Court. Why do we, Mr. President, have a seat if there is no Constitutional Court? Why isn't the court judge's full number? How can the Assembly be in session? How can the congregation pass laws? Who will find that the law does not comply with the Constitution? Did you do it on purpose? Some judges got kicked, some retired, some like this, some of that, now we don't have a Constitutional Court. You were supposed to make a proposal first, I guess the President of the Republic takes it, who? If we have a President of the Republic, I don't remember anything. Is Velija Ilic here? We've got it, it's good. Can we do regular work? Now there's no one to lift the import regulations for oil and oil derivatives, and all the lawyers agree that it's anti-constitutional. If you vote today, Milutinovic signs an order for you, who can question this - there is no Constitutional Court. Well, that's nice, you know, now bring in one regulation to kill the opposition -- there's no one to declare it against the constitution. When a new Constitutional Court is established, it cannot retroactively judge, and almost, you solved the problem. If you solve that problem, you've solved everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1889	Mr. Pelevic has the word, the second call from Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1890	President, I'm under the impression that you didn't understand me when I put out my previous replica. Since Article 96. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, says "if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party located in parliament, the president, or a representative of a parliamentary group, has the right to replication". For me, comparing with previous authorities is an offensive expression, therefore, I reacted. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Seselj wants to portray himself and his party as the only opposition party in parliament. The only thing he forgets is that for two and a half years he was vice president of the Republic government and as many vice-presidents of the federal government. Therefore, the Soviet Union does not want to compare itself with the SRS. The amount of the opposition party's worth will be given by citizens in some subsequent elections. I would ask Mr. Seselj not to mention the Soviet Union, let him deal with his party, his problems, and in this House, and in general, in public appearances, he will perform with the position of well-intentioned opposition, very constructive, but also very fierce. We have supported the government of Mr Djindjic, we have given it a chance, as a parliamentary group of the Soviet Union, but we will not support this budget, because we do not think it is good for the citizens of Serbia. But we will also support every legal project, he came from the Radical Party, the SPS, or DOS, if he is good for Serbian citizens. That's how we, Mr. Seselj, differ from you and the SRS. Thank you very much. (Employer Seselj asks for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1891	There's no response to the replica. This is a replica of your exposure. (Employer Seselj, from the O.R.: It's not true. Don't make a circus out of parliament, there's no answer to the replica. So this was a replica of your exposure. (Employer Seselj from the O.R.: It's about the Rules of Procedure. O Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1892	This is my report under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. Since the previous debater mentioned my name, in a whole new context than the one that was the subject of controversy, I have the right to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1893	Mr. Seselj, don't disrespect the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1894	This is no disrespect, be correct, be correct for once and let me say the two sentences I have. I'm proud to have been in the government for two and a half years, but I'm sorry that the SRS didn't form itself a government and that I haven't been in government for at least 25 years, and it's not my goal to be a majority opposition, but rather to be in power again, at the head of my party, of course, without coalition partners. Mr. Pelevic, I don't know what you professors are. It'd be good if you said so. I'm a professor of political system at law school, legally proven, right? Isn't that right, Mr. Djindjic? Mr. Justice Minister, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1895	Mr. Seselj, you have reported for your objection to the Rules of Procedure, and indeed you insult the messengers, you insult all the messengers by your conduct, by demeaning the Parliament, by insulting all the messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1896	First, as a professor of the political system, at least I know what the difference between the government and the opposition is. It is the authority of anyone who votes for the government, and the opposition is anyone who votes against the government. It's in all the textbooks around the world, in theory, it's been completely cleared for over 200 years. Now, let's see what Professor Peljević is, so to explain, maybe he has some additional theoretical arguments, maybe he'll knock these out of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1897	Gentlemen, Mr. Seselj has abused the pay phone. The voices in the hall, but you let him do it. I did let him, but what do you suggest we fight here in the congregation? Please don't. The word comes from MP Dragan Jocic (infringement of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1898	I understand the president of the assembly, he's right, he wants this discussion to end. However, I will not discuss any other matters at all, I ask you -- there is one article in 99 that says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. More than that. They're bound to respect... Can you tell Mr. Seselj that I'm a lawyer just like you, and I'm calling on a serious member, so we're obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. That means we have a duty to respect the people. It's not good, believe me, to say that Serbs are sheep. It's not good to say that Serbs are a flock and it's not good to say that they need a shepherd (votes - is he drunk? ). Oh, I'm not even high. I'm not even high! It's not good, no matter how you throw it, it's not good to say something that's in a really difficult situation, like we're in Serbia, to say it's a herd that needs someone to cut it. This is a very serious set... Is Vojislav Seselj supposed to be...? [[Comment from the O.R. Can't be heard]] Good shepherd, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1899	(Vojislav Seselj seeks word) This was an objection... (Vojislav Seselj, from the site - mentioned me in a very negative context, misreading my words).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1900	First of all, it's not a little offensive to be a shepherd, and I didn't insult Zoran Djindjic for comparing him with the shepherd, because I can't wait to bring him down from this function, to come to his place, so I can be the new shepherd. Secondly, I did not compare the Serbian people with the sheep but with the taxpayers. You who don't read books, especially books from the economy, you don't know that's one common term when it's explained to those who have no idea about anything like psychics, what's a proper tax policy. When you run a proper tax policy, then make sure that your taxes are tolerable to whoever pays them, not to kill him immediately. As a shepherd must take care of his flock of sheep to live for 20, 30, 50 years, to keep the herd together, to cut off from time to time, for the sheep to be milked and the lambs to be sold, etc. With your tax policy, you're actually killing that herd of taxpayers, you're running out of substance, and in the next year we don't even have to make a budget anymore, because they won't have anyone to tax. And, please, Mr. President, after Mr. Jocic's announcement, I insist on that, since you've already introduced various restrictive measures into this Rules of Procedure, to seduce and compulsory blowing into a balloon when entering this assembly, let's see that drunk people can't go out for this pay phone because they don't know what they're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I'm sorry you didn't allow me to answer my predecessor's statement since she was offensive, and you allowed him to. But I don't want to compare myself to him and beneath all my dignity is my honor to respond to such low and dirty attacks. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to continue my presentation with regard to the legal projects that are on the agenda today. The text of a law governing labour and economic rights of employees was passed without any consultation with the Union of Serbian Unions, which means the government was not interested in the opinion of a working organisation. Also, the United Border Union's "Independence" did not have any consultations on these legal projects, and they concern them specifically. I wonder what kind of democracy doesn't respect the interests of workers and their working organizations. They have already announced protests and are already being held in Belgrade and Nis. I am not a proponent of these protests and I hope they will not be there and they will calm down, but I think it was wrong that they did not consult as they did when the Ministry of Sports, the Ministry of Ecology and the Ministry of Serbs went out of Serbia. I think in that case, sports alliances, sports organisations, the Yugoslav Olympic Committee and all other sports organisations, as well as environmental experts, had to be consulted. As far as agriculture is concerned, some taxes have been abolished, and that's good, but no seed tax has been abolished, which are used and bought by peasants as a re-promaterial in the store. The explanation of the Ministry of Finance is that such practice is also a practice in Europe. That's right. But... to seeds. [[Comment from the O.R. Can't be heard]] Please, it's not there. If it's not some amendment that hasn't come to us yet. (Vladan Batic from the post explains that it was resolved by the amendment. The amendment? We didn't get that. If that came in, then I say hello and that's fine. But we didn't get those amendments. (Vladan Batic confirms that the government has submitted such an amendment. Then it's okay. There's a lot of pressure on the peasants, so his products are expensive at the market. Sam's very expensive. The fertilizer, too. The fuel is very expensive. The workforce is expensive. Last year, there was a huge drought, and all this resulted in half of the average salary, which is 4,087 dinars per statistical office, half of which should be spent on fruit and vegetables at the market. The green salad costs 10 dinars, a cabbage of 10 to 15 dinars, a potato of 15 to 20 dinars, a kilo of carrots is 20 to 25 dinars depending on the market on which to buy. Agricultural production endangers the lack of mineral fertilisers, which will reduce the yields of wheat and other cereals. It is now clear that by the next harvest we will have to import 200,000 tons of corn for the needs of livestock. In his presentation, the Prime Minister stated that it would be good to simply say what should be taken away from and what should be added. I don't agree with that since there's a debate in principle. It would be the subject of discussion in particular when they come to the order of the amendment. But if we insist, we can also talk about it in this debate in principle. The Serbian Unity Party proposes to withdraw from the budget intended for the president of the Republic and his office, then to the National Assembly of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia a portion of the money and to allocate the money for other purposes. We are wondering why 28 million and 300,000 dinars for the cabinet of the President of the Republic of Serbia. We all know that the president of the Republic of Serbia has not heard from anyone about the most powerful events in Serbia, especially the crisis in southern Serbia. What do I give for that cabinet 28 million and 300,000 dinars? This means that we will finance the cabinet of the President of the Republic of Serbia all this year, and he simply does not do his job. It is quite clear that by the end of this year he will be President of the Republic and to what extent invest so much money for his cabinet when the cabinet is obviously not in office unless it is some DOS trade with the president of the Republic. We also believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not receive 180 million dinars, but only 100 million dinars. We also believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia should not receive 75,400,000 but 55,400,000 dinars. We also believe that the budget reserves in this budget are very large, because if we have in mind that the total budget is 129 billion, which is 37 billion for the budgetary current reserves. I understand that every budget must have budget reserves, but I think that in this situation they are very large, and that's why we suggested that we single out 5 billion of them and that we finance agriculture, or spring so that we can survive by the end of the year. Since the estimated time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1903	If the word is no longer received by any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups, the first of the registered MPs is Dr Jovan Deretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1904	Dear Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, respected Ministers, listening to statements by the Prime Minister and his ministers -- what will their policy, their budgetary and tax policies -- appear to be flowering roses in Serbia. To that I would add one amen, which they have forgotten, because it is not an exposure to our reality, but a plea to the Lord God to grant them their wishful wish. Our reality is something else entirely. The policy of this budget and tax policy is a product of one understanding that Serbia will be able to join more developed countries if prices and tax rates are the same as in developed countries in Serbia. If this budget and this tax were to be proposed for Switzerland or Denmark, I would say - excellent, no blackouts. But the situation in Serbia is something different. The whole budget is filled with people's pockets, full of taxes. This people, as you know, live not only on the line of misery, but below that line. Nothing this government predicted would come out of this misery, but burdened it with all kinds of taxes and taxes. Gentlemen, I'm saying that we, the opposition, have no opportunity to change anything, because the DOS voting machine will vote anything that comes from the 18 kitchens of their own lager. But I want to tell the people and you that this is a force on the fairies. What about that projected deficit of 22 billion dinars, who think to fill out the privatisation? The privatisation law has been suspended. From donations that aren't there, and worst of all, from credit. So, out of debt. So every loan is a debt. It will turn up again as new taxes, new taxes, a new harrass on this poor people. To submit amendments to this budget should take each member, but that would take us far away in both discussion and time, and all of this is in vain. I mean, this government doesn't care about the real economic possibilities of this country. Here's just one example, the budget is filled with copyright taxes, patents and technical improvements -- 381 million dinars. In all countries, it seeks to be freed, as much as possible from copyright, patent and technical training. We need more than anything, technical training in our economy. It means we have to pay taxes for them, too. Capital income tax - 279 million dinars. Obviously, our government does not predict the recovery of our economy or the normal functioning of our economy, so patents and copyright should collect more taxes than capital taxes. I believe that this budget and all six draft laws should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1905	The word has the People's MP Zoran M. Nikolic, followed by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1906	Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable President and the Presidency, this is a joint review of the system laws concerning the 2001 draft budget. I volunteered in principle and joint debate for the simple reason that the next item of the agenda, which is the subject of my interest, which is the Agrarian budget, is probably not going to be able to talk. I am an MP here in front of DOS and I certainly belong, thank God, to this majority group of MPs who is aware that reforms are necessary in all segments of our society, especially in the field of public income. That's what I want and I want to support this government and this proposal for 2001, in principle. However, of course, there are objections within this budget, and there are proposals that, at least when they come from DOS, are well-intentioned and constructive. The object of my interest is the Agrarian budget. I suppose you already know, on my initiative and on the initiative of other Members, we managed to push through the amendment on the Committee on Agriculture that the funds, which are provided for agriculture and for the Ministry of Agriculture, are insufficient and should be increased. I don't mean to say here, I'm aware that we're increasing the income item, but I don't want to say where to subtract it from, and add it here. It's government business. We only find that the funds for agriculture, or for the Agricultural budget, are insufficient. We've talked about this in detail and for a long time. They're here to make serious arguments. We are truly convinced that these funds are insufficient. What the previous governments have been doing for the past 10 years is constantly cutting budgets and constantly taking money from agriculture and farmers. That trend has indeed been a trend in the past 10 years. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to reverse that negative trend, at least to stop it. So the funds have been on that trend for the past 10 years and when we considered them and when we discussed them in the item, we actually came to the conclusion that these funds were insufficient. On the Agriculture Committee, with one abstention, we have decided that the funds for agriculture, which are 5 billion and 100 million, are needed to be increased by 800 million. It's a 16% increase. There were and there were other suggestions. We were really trying, like the government, to be both thrifty and just. I think we've met that principle, that minimum and austerity, but also justice. We are obliged to invest in agriculture. I'm not an economist, but let someone tell me from an economic point of view, isn't agriculture exactly the area to invest in, is it, however devastation and no matter how much it was taken, actually has the best chance of revitalising itself in a shorter period of time. That is our opinion, and that is why we have decided to submit the amendment, as a Committee on Agriculture. Given that this is the second item of the agenda and that this amendment will be explained by an authorised representative of the Committee on Agriculture, I have decided to report for word in this principled search. I have an understanding for the government, and I know the funds are modest. I absolutely agree with everything Minister Djelic said. We know the inherited condition, and we know the means to which it is available. We know there's a budget deficit. What is our proposal to the Government and Resorm Minister for Agriculture is to try to find funds from the budget deficit, and if the budget deficit is to be increased in favour of agriculture for the 800 million. That would be a 3% increase. I want to tell both the Government and the Resort Minister that it was indeed a majority decision, the single decision of the Committee on Agriculture. You must certainly keep that in mind in future work. So, first of all, we want to secure the funds and make the agricultural project effective, and we expect both the Minister of Resort and the Government to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1907	The word is made by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, and then by MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1908	Mr. Djindjic left us, and I wanted first of all to thank him for having honored us and addressed us twice today, as he said, to understand the tax package that is before us today. We understood him very well. I also thank Mr Djelic, and he is not here now, as he also said, on behalf of the economy, the population and the pensioners, and what he consulted in the public debate before the adoption of this package of tax laws and budget projections for 2001. So much support was given to Mr Djelic from these categories, which he listed as all the minors announcing the outing of streets and strikes. First, this union today's Solidarity, and we see that the pensioner's union has announced strikes, the Chamber of Commerce called, and I'm not telling you how it reacted to this package of tax laws and budget projections. Dear People's MPs, it is clear that when the government created the 2001 budget, it came from the needs of budgetary users, not from the real situation in the economy and the population. The budget projection is hypothetical, based on nothing justified optimism. The analysis of this document, which is certainly the most important economic and political document adopted by the state administration for the current fiscal year, can conclude the following. One, this projection of the 2001 budget comes from several wrong hypotheses, that economic growth will be accelerated, that wages will rise drastically and that the population still has money by the straws and that this government will slowly, through taxes, shake out the straw. All three hypotheses are wrong. Unfortunately, industrial production has dropped dramatically since 5 October last year, and the decline will continue. Mr. Djindjic himself said that our economy works with 25% capacity. Then, the wages resulting from economic depression will actually fall, and hundreds of thousands of people will be left without any prerogative as a result of the layoff from the work you are announcing. Finally, both Mr Djindjic and Mr Djelic and this government should know that the people no longer have money in the straws. The people are naked as a gun. You all know that. Under two, it is obvious that the government has no intention of reducing state spending, or that they do not think of fulfilling the pre-election promises and making a more tangible cut on the bulky side of the budget. Listen to the figures, the republican and local budgets of around 130 billion dinars, the federal budget of about 44 billion dinars, the budgets of the funds of about 120 billion, means about 10 billion marks. So to increase all taxes ten times, you cannot achieve this budget inflow unless you plan to print money and hyperinflation as we did in 1993. There's nothing on the bulky side of the budget. Too bad Mr. Djindjic went to tell him where the canisters are. I'll just count a few pearls. Position 29, type of expenditure, the co-ordination body of the federal government in the government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedja, amounting to 500m dinars. I have to hurry, for the sake of time. Well, don't you think Nebojsa Covic should be given that much money from taxpayers and citizens of this country? We all know that this body is completely useless from the point of view of state interest, that it is causing enormous damage to national and state interests. That position, then, needs to be deleted, and those funds eventually rerouted to the salaries of members of the MUP, possibly I say. Then, position 41, kind of expenditure, special purposes, and in the explanation there stands later, these funds are intended for so-called. international legal aid. The amount is 60 million dinars. In translation, this explanation means that funds are intended to support UN tribunal officials in Belgrade and to send Serbs to The Hague casamat. Normally, that position should be deleted. Or the number 98 position on the bulky side of the budget, and the kind of expenditure, development and reform of the system in education. The amount is 50 million dinars. We're not going to trust Gashi Knezevic with our citizens' money to do experiments with our children. We've had enough of one Shuvar since World War II, like his education reform. What did we call it? We'd probably call this new one a gasket. It is quite obvious that Gassa Knezevic is unable to implement any reform of the education system, so I suggest that these funds be shifted to the salaries of educators. I don't want to count on it. The budget projection is full of these pearls to be deleted, thus dispersing the economy and the population. I'm done. Under three, it is clear from the budget that the government does not think of dissipating the economy, i.e. to ensure any economic growth this year. That the government doesn't necessarily count on the economy is evidenced by the fact that it plans to raise only 2.2 billion dinars from the company's profit tax item. We picked so much, if you remember, in the first quarter of last year. It is obvious that the government is planning a further economic stagnation, i.e. a radical decline in all economic activities. And finally, under four, the government's clear intention is to achieve this enormously high level of budget for this year by draining the last pair out of the population's pockets through an unremembered increase in sales and excise taxes and through a radical increase in personal income tax. However, here I am ending, in the population be sure that the gentlemen of the DOS, there is no money. You won't fill the budget from these sources. The people of the money are gone. You need to start a business activity and select the necessary budgets from the start-up economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1909	The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Vucurovic, and let Stevan Kesejic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1910	I'm not asking for a word. I'm asking for a break. We need to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1911	We have 132 MPs on record.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1912	They left their cards here. You need to determine the quorum. I ask that the Assembly meetings be attended either by the Prime Minister or by an authorised representative of the motionary. Until they show up here, we have nothing to talk about. We tell them that. It's not worth talking to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1913	We have ministers from the government present, Mr. Prime Minister has come out briefly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1914	They are not authorized representatives, there is no finance minister who is the government's authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1915	What member of the Rules of Procedure says it is mandatory for the Prime Minister to attend? According to the records, there are 130 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1916	No, they left the cards, look what the card is. Here you go, find the quorum. Okay, I'll talk. Undo the time, ma'am. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the government, for these 10 years of parliamentaryism in Serbia, and I don't even know how many governments there were budgets. There were those who were called military, there were those who were called police, those who had been spent on days of adoption, burdened with quasi-fiscal deficits, and there were also modest and insufficient. Never in Serbia's history, since the Turkish war, has there been such a budget. We can expect that for some of the funds you collect from the taxpayers, you will buy spirometers, you will measure our lung capacity and you will determine how much air we will be able to breathe in and how much we will have to pay for it. I suppose we can expect you to introduce the right of the wedding night, it's not right, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, it's not going to introduce that right, because judging by the affinity of a part of the DOS, there could also be a groom. Never before has the budget been kidnapping, racketeering and looting. Neither was so neglected by the difficult social situation and the extreme exhaustion of Serbia's population. Those who voted for you voted because you promised them well-being. You promised them that huge money would come from abroad and that they wouldn't have to pay for anything anymore. They didn't expect you to create your own well-being with their last church. To that end, this bill was made, made by the government of experts, where geniuses sit to geniuses. The geniuses don't seem to know the real bill. View only analytical conto 901-050 excise. The 25.5 billion revenue is foreseen, and in order for this country to function in any way, we need at least three million tons of oil derivatives per year. I'm talking about the minimum, and that's the minimum anyone knows, except the Minister of Energy. Now here comes the bill. Two million tons is about two billion and five hundred thousand gallons of derivatives. If we multiply that by the average amount of 12 dinar excises per litre, we get a figure of 30 billion dinars, 30 billion is just from the excise on gasoline and derivatives, not to mention motor oil, liquid oil gas, or if you want propane, butane and other derivatives. How much longer to collect excise duty from tobacco processing, ethanol, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, coffee, salt and luxury. How much more money to get into the budget for you to learn the bill. The part of the excise that goes into the federal budget is only 1.6 billion dinars. It's transparent. It's a very non-transparent revenue side of the budget, it's actually very obvious, because you're either planning a grey economy of 300 percent, or you're planning whose company is going to import without paying taxes. Will it be the company of the vice-president of the federal government and the headquarters of Therasians 9a? Will it be ministerial firms, through Glenkor, for example, whose interest on this market is one hohstappler, which many domestic companies have taken for more than a million dollars. Which parties got a monopoly on tobacco and that got coffee. You hide from Serbian citizens on the revenue side only from excise incomes of nearly a billion marks and say it's transparent. Then you ask where it's supposed to go, so it can go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1917	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1918	Mr. President, it was two minutes before I started speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1919	It's your time to start talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1920	No, I asked to establish the quorum. Two minutes were a quorum. Thank you for informing me how much time I spent, but I will still use what Mr. Djelic used. Even before the budget was passed, you damaged the budget by 12 million marks and that is an irrefutable fact and an irrefutable bill. You've damaged the Gamonopol Regulation on oil and oil derivatives. You pushed $25 million into Croatia's budget, you're paying for the Adriatic pipeline. During that time, Yugoslav river shipping and our fleet are failing. You say transport is cheaper, it's not true. It's not eight dollars a ton of oil, as you say, it's $9.5, because from the day station to the refinery it pays another $1.50. Now ask who would drive for that money, and of course you would. Ask him if he would pay 20% of the tax on this country's services. Of course, and that 20% of taxes to the state would amount to 12 million marks, for which you have damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's not budget policy anymore, it's not tax policy, it's a crime. Now, in order to compensate for that loss, you release harrakes and recruits around companies to audit any procedures and try to nick the last pair of each and every company that is valid. You send disseminatings to every company that has any money, with a message -- help develop democracy. Now whoever squeezes and doesn't pay, I mean the racket, I don't know what's gonna happen to him. Our government is really full of geniuses. Here, I'll finish. Everyone speaks and writes in several languages, speaks all English, writes English, speaks and writes French, speaks and writes German, but most often they speak and write stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1921	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejic, and after that, MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are all these materials, the laws that are now confused at one point in the agenda, are also difficult, which is why it's very difficult to explain and explain in these five minutes that DOS majority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have arranged for opposition parties, and therefore I'm going to have to have what I've been preparing for ten days, so constructively, so the prime minister asked, comparing expenditures and incomes by division, and I'm going to mess up just as I've been baffled this bill. The draft budget law for 2001 is a set of good wishes that Serbian citizens should feel on their skin. The implementation of the budget for the previous year, compared with the planned budget for 2001, is certainly not only slightly but also several times larger. There are also a few questions that are raised immediately. The first question - from which income does the proposer intend to make this budget? Are the planned revenues realistic and feasible, what is the state of our economy, what is happening in southern Serbia, what is the security of our country, where the money from the promised donations from the West to win the DOS elections. Many more questions that we cannot absorb here for a short period of time, and also because most MPs have already spoken of similar issues. The government's draft budget bill sees and expects to move macroeconomic aggregates through fiscal reform and measures to curb the grey economy. The prescribed projects of European countries are therefore not enough to bring a better life in our familiar state of business, in the general state of life of citizens. Therefore, knowing all of this, the DOS regime has resorted to a fiscal reform project, tax and excise policy pushing its hands into empty pockets of citizens. Taxes everything that can be done, everything that goes on the ground, which swims and flies. In addition to the enormously increased electricity prices, which have been raised by more than 100% and which citizens will see very quickly in their accounts, these laws will also, by introducing tax rates, bring both the economy and every citizen to the edge of the existence. Drugs, life supplies and personal hygiene, children's shoes and clothing, and even diapers need to fill the state budget. The planned deficit in the 2001 budget talks on insecure sources of income, which will surely be threefold more than planned. This claim can also be supported by the fact that it is not realistic to expect empty pockets of citizens to fill their budget. It is also not realistic to expect any major donations from the West, because so far, this has proved to be only a false promise and where the 6 billion dinars for the democratisation of Serbia, with which DOS waved, so with green bills in the pre-election campaign. Show this people where these promised funds are found, or donations that you have installed in the revenue side of this budget. It's hard to admit that it was all a colorful lie. Many structures are damaged. For example, in the position of 53, on which the type of expenditures are made, the Agrarian budget 5,100,000 speaks of concern for the agrarian of this government. I was particularly impressed by the fact that the Minister of Agriculture here did not expertly expose the Agrarian budget, but rather that he listened very carefully to the expert presentation of Professor Vojislav Seselj on the knowledge of this issue and probably that the minister would learn more and learn more, except what he learned, which is to deal with all other matters, except those in his jurisdiction. He is also willing to deal with crime, to know that from Subotica to Nis was ordered so many wagons of wheat, he knows and how much money it takes to create a new Republic of Vojvodina and he knows it all, but he certainly does not know that one flock does not make one cow but many more cattle and many more numbers than he stands here as minister. I hope he seriously thought the herd was one or two cows. This budget law has only one item, and that is the tax rate on citizens' property. This budget leads us to a new increase in prices and inflation. The people of Serbia, just as something has been taught here by the Minister of Agriculture, teach us what to do and what will happen if we adopt this legislative programme, these legislative packages proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the DOS majority. We're about to have a great evil and a lot harder life than it's ever been before. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for this budget, even if meat from mad cows were planted at lunch today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1923	The word is made by MP Dragan Cholic, and after that, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a draft budget law for 2001 and a package of tax laws and we, Serbian radicals, believe that it is one of the most important laws for the citizens of Serbia. DOS lawmakers will adopt a budget law, it is not a dispute for us, because they have the necessary majority. The obligation for us Serbians to tell the people what was waiting for him in the coming period and what were the consequences of this budget. Citizens at the will of the Government of the Republic of Serbia receive a state they will not be able to support, there are a large number of taxis and taxes, and at this point we do not only know if the water from the tap is taxed. In his exposé, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic promised the people that he would introduce reforms, abolish or cut the taxes of past authorities. Serbia's citizens were also promised a six-billion-dollar donation, a data greatly exploited by DOS leaders in the election campaign. Instead of these dollars, the new communist authorities will drive cattle out of the barn, taking farmers' grain from the barn, as the ruling DOS peaks are in the genes and cannot resist it. It goes from father to son, if father was a communist must and son so that family tradition would not be interrupted, father would rip a mustache to peasants, son so that the father would not be left behind. The budget for last year was 31 billion dinars, for this year 130 billion dinars of expenditure and 100 billion dinars of income are planned. The rest of the 30 billion needs to be provided by every resident of our country. The wages will not increase, so both citizens and businesses will suffer. What is allowed for Serbian citizens, when their medicines have also been lifted since the arrival of DOS to power. Galenika doesn't open its gates, how are you gonna get people without drugs? DOS authorities are unable to pass reform laws and we, Serbian radicals, do not trust the government and ministers to act as outlined in the draft budget law. We Serbian radicals seek responsibility for this unserious and devastating approach to the government. Agriculture is drastically damaged, health care, schooling, too. Such a budget will certainly be launched by an inflationary process, which will make Serbia's citizens miserable and wrapped up in black. There is already 32 dinars in some thighs on today, and only with the adoption of the budget will new purchases take place. This power has seen great and only hope and hope in helping and helping international institutions, which have been holding them on ice for too long, because they are not cooperative enough in meeting foreign wishes, the Serbs have not yet delivered to The Hague. NBJ, since the incursion with the long pipes of Serbian Indian Jones, Mladjan Dinkic, who has been searching for gold for too long, is facing unresolved problems. Since Dinkic and G-17 promises, there's nothing, and all the time the money that's been found is crisscrossing. The bread is already 15 dinars, the truth is the cheaper one. What does a poor paradise have to eat fine and gentlemanly bread? This budget cannot be realised, not even at the cost of issuing national interest, it cannot be something that is unrealistic, which is a dream, it is public to become, thanks to DOS ministers, who arrived from America by plane, who do not know or want to know what it means for citizens of Serbia, to introduce new tax rates and to move quickly rather than gradually from war to budgetary economy. Finance Minister Mr. Djelic acts as if he wants to destroy this people and the state, as someone who doesn't care about the plight of the people. It's like he's arrived in a cosmic ship from some galaxy so he doesn't know the state of our economy. We all know that as much as we had a war yesterday, that our country was destroyed, that the economy was working in conditions of war, that Minister Djelic does not know, but that all those Serbian patriots who were with their people, who loved and defended this country. There is a great possibility that educators will be lured and fired from the service if they oppose and strike. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic made it clear to them from the state DOS vision that there are enough colleagues at the Employment Service who are eager to replace them. All those who follow cinematography and who are fans of horror and horror movies have a great opportunity and a chance to raise their hair on their heads as if watching the movie "Scream 4", when they only think that Serbian citizens will meet all the obligations that the DOS-led state imposes. Serbia, hard days await you, hold on if you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1925	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1926	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, the seriousness of every government in every country in the world is seen primarily in the way it works, in the personal composition, starting with the prime minister, and the resolute ministers, and above all, at the end of each year, but this is an exception, because you mustered up your government just a month ago, at the adoption of the budget for next year. The government has given us a proposal for a budget that, no less than four times the nominal amount, but the budget that Serbia had in 2000, with the fact that, immediately, in the course of the listing, the total income and expenditure items are visible, and above all in terms of expenditure items, which are 30 billion higher than the planned revenue, that this budget has three basic characteristics, and that is its inflationary character, primarily the unrealisticity and irrationality of many budget items. The Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic, has on several occasions, and on the DOS audit several times, as we are here today, said that he would primarily ask for seriousness from the MPs in the budget debate, probably in these five minutes, with packages of tax laws he expects us to do so, including those of us who speak much faster, but did not say that, above all, his assumptions about the realization of such a projected, unreal and massive budget are based on some of his demagogue estimates, and that he did not even shame himself on the DOS audit, the other night, saying that there was something communist, Marxist, that he was not ashamed of all this, and when he addressed the users of the 2001 budget, and we have this most important legal project in each country, he should have added - "happy new in 1948". Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have one budget that, by who knows which path, tells us what the characteristics of this government are and what Djindjic and the entire DOS interest community were meant to do -- to get their ministerial, parliamentary functions. The lack of interest in the budget and in the tax laws, both of you, and limiting time to only five minutes, speaks enough of it, and above all the fact that with such cuts, such tax packages, which citizens will only feel on their skin, we should simply say today, because you didn't want to say that, but by "putting dust in the eyes" to the people, the people, this government, with Djindjic at the head, these ministers with a famous genius, as he said, Djindjic called him, Minister Djelic, intended to rob you. This robbery will first and foremost be looked at in the fact that they will not be able to secure the incomes of 107 billion dinars through tax laws, which we have in front of us today and which your DOS majority will of course adopt. It is simply not possible because by increasing the tax rates that Serbian citizens, therefore the taxpayers should single out, you did not take one of the most realistic facts into account - you did not take it for a reason that in just a few months, from your famous 5th October revolution completely out of the hands of your own people and you do not know that we are being threatened by a hungry year, that the people are no longer even beaten up by a couple and will have no place to pay you such high taxes. And how are you going to react, how are you going to make that revenue of 107 billion dinars? Then the question of these promises that the prime minister gave us, and above all to the employees of the state administration, those who use the funds that you have now included in the budget, primarily to the employees of education, in health care, as will the prime minister himself, and his government, to fulfill the promise that the salaries of the employees increase from 28-44%, as you promised education, if the very projection of the income of 107 billion, regardless of these packages of tax laws, on lenient feet, on glass feet, that you would bring the citizens of Serbia into a situation that by the end of the year, as you promised, and today you have changed it, so you said - so it won't be better right away, we don't have those six billion dollars, sorry, they tricked us, it was probably at some other border. We are now under new conditions, but you should have, then, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, and Mr. Prime Minister, to say that it was a clear deception and that citizens will be even harder to live and that with those 160 marks of average earnings, which Djindjic has promised, we do not believe that you will be able to achieve this by the end of the year, the average family in Serbia will be able to do nothing. Prime Minister Djindjic said he would be able to bet that the growth of the social product instead of the projected five in the budget would be 10% by the end of the year. It's really incomprehensible. Because if you go along and across Serbia you'll see that no factory works, that you from the economy, which is the most affected by the tax package, besides the citizens, you won't be able to take anything because nothing is produced. On the other hand, you said that you would make donations, loans, from those who provide you with help and who were your mentors to supplement the budget of 12 billion dinars. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that such a begging of Prime Minister Djindjic and Minister Djelic will lead us to the beggar press. And if you are now born of the people to go to villages, municipalities, cities, you will see, ladies and gentlemen of the DOS, that your coalition will be short of breath, your rule, to prepare for you hips and pests, the same one that brought you to power with your voices, and you have set out to destroy the systematic Serbia and the Serbian people. On the other hand, you need to explain to us how you're gonna... (President: Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... Here I go. I think that the final countdown, Mr. Chairman, is primarily Prime Minister Djindjic and members of the government because it is approaching March 31st when you must unnecessarily execute everything the American Congress requires of you, which has promised you only $ 100 million, and you need 200, from the deficit. And you count on it, but to continue as Stakic, as Blagoj Simic, to deliver further on the list that only you know of Serbs to the Hague tribunal, to arrest, to threaten and commit political shooting. What's most important of all is the fact that citizens won't be able to pay this much, and you're already at this session of the Assembly, and that's how I end up, you're pouring the ashes. The citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this transmission should know that SRS MPs have started handing over amendments to such a radical budget, to tax laws, to harrassants, and that in the meantime, in agreement with the government, through meetings of your committees, you started before our amendments, which will be spoken of in detail and make sure that we will use five and more minutes of the Rules of Procedure, according to each amendment, that you are trying to wash your dirty conscience and reduce excise rates. We just got a proposal from the government to cut gas excises from 16 to 10 dinars for diesel from 12 to 7 dinars. You won't be able to do anything, and indeed, it's according to the Rules of Procedure regulated, to warn you of this great grace that is heard every time I go out for a pay phone, probably, I think it is also your behavior, I suppose, in accordance with the regulations of some European parliaments, of the European Union, of the international community, as you call it, etc. So, in particular, a lot more about the budget, about your incompetence and your intention to completely rob us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1927	There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget as a state formation should be marked by a review of expenditure and estimated revenues in Serbia. The budget is currently the most important financial institution for the financing of the state and the narrow administrative territorial units. Budgetary principles are not respected in this budget. First of all, there's no budget balance provided. This principle requires a balance between state revenue and expenditure and through this balance must seek to limit high state costs and their revenues. I'm sure you won't cover government expenditures and state revenues this way. A significant question arises - will there be uncovered sources for financing public revenues and public expenditures? The proposal for this budget makes it clear that we will become fiscal, better said, tax states, and fewer countries that will provide funds for the budget from real sources, and above all from production. That's why I find this budget unrealistic. In particular, I would like to point out that the authorities have more than 10 billion, planned as the resources of the beneficiary of the budget for special purposes. I'm asking the question - who will control the budget's spending schedule for the budget users that are scheduled for special purposes. As it comes to enormous material resources, I see the ministers will decide for themselves, so I'm afraid there will be a number of irregularities in this area. This is because they won't have anyone to control where these funds are being spent. Over 13 billion dinars are dedicated to tears of special purpose for the users of the budget. That's why I'm suggesting that these environments are directed and that no control will be put in place. The funds for the Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja municipalities of one billion and a half dinars are absolutely unfounded, as I believe these funds should be directed towards the needs of the interior authorities and the Yugoslav Army defending southern Serbia. It cannot be allowed to use these funds and to have a free coordination body as an integral part of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. In this budget, there must be 100% increased positions related to improving agriculture and livestock. Improving the salaries of health workers, increasing pensions, increasing education wages, and increasing the amount of child care. Tax laws will also draw the last yellow bank from many of our citizens who are unable to pay planned high tax and excise taxes. The enhanced administration certainly affects the level of the budget. I ask the government whether a reduction in the number of ministries has occurred and a reduction in the number of ministry employees. In Section 1 of the budget, which provides for 10 million costs for the President of the Republic, I believe that these funds should be reduced by 50% and instead of 10 million should be allocated to 5 million, because by taking over the new government, the government has taken over all the authorities in the Republic of Serbia, so that the role of President of the Republic of Serbia today is purely formal. As for Section 3, the government of the Republic of Serbia, where agencies and bureaus are projected to cost 10 million dinars, I propose that they be 5 million, means to reduce 5% because the government of the Republic of Serbia has professional services and they can carry out jobs without any fees on the part of the state to be costed. As far as Section Six is concerned, the Ministry of Finance is... (President-Time).... These funds should be reduced, funds related to the tourism ministry should be reduced because 23 million are foreseen, and it is known that Serbian citizens, especially taxpayers, do not care about tourism at the moment. All costs related to the operation of market inspections shall be paid from specific funds, sources, so that this would be only duplication and the funds would be spent for non-intentional purposes on the damage of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1929	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1930	Ladies and gentlemen, 107 billion and 600 million dinars should be collected in order to complement the budget of the Republic of Serbia and with 22 billion of what is expected to be a donation and to be distributed from privatisation so as to meet the needs of the beneficiaries of the budget. One hundred seven billion should be collected from citizens who already do not have enough resources for a normal life. It is necessary to raise money from those who can't pay for electricity now, from those citizens who can't buy basic groceries now and meet the basic needs of their family members. It is in the projection of the budget, in the revenue side, that there will not be a full bar for one reason, which even more citizens will now not pay bills for spent electricity, because after the increase in sales taxes, after the increase in electricity prices, according to statistics, each citizen of Serbia will pay an average of several thousand dinars of electricity. One who heats up on electricity will pay at least 2, 3 or 4 times more electricity. And citizens with an average salary of 4,080 dinars certainly won't meet all their needs, so they can stay for electricity. After all, you invited citizens -- don't pay the electricity, don't pay other bills, because when we get there, everything will be free, just like the communists promised to heat the streets of Belgrade when they come to power. By increasing the tax rate to 17% and counting the federal tax rate of 3%, there will be an increase in the prices of many products and services, i.e. almost all products and services. Then there will be an increase in the cost of life. Today, they calculated that about 12,000 dinars were needed to meet the needs of a family of four. Probably by increasing the price of electricity, telephones, and other needs, there will be some 13,000 - 14,000 dinars. Do you think the budget will be filled by those who have to pay for every medical examination of 36,00 dinars, each prescribed prescription of 18,00 dinars? They're not going to stay for life, and they're going to buy less and less, so there's going to be less budgets. Or will you fill the budget by taxing diapers, school supplies, oil, sugar and other basic needs? This bloodsucker Djindjic goes on to drag his hands into his pocket, so first lets imports of those squires, used cars, car wrecks, and now when registering those cars should be paid from 600,00 to 20.000,00 dinars. They kill Djindjic, like a breather. For the possession of a mobile phone, 200,00 dinars should be paid for the carabine 3.000,00 dinars per year. That's what we suspect you'll be able to fill your budget. It's not true what Djindjic says -- determine who we'll cut the salary to, so we can balance the budget. We say, use those six billion dollars of foreign aid, so raise everyone's salary, and education workers, and health workers, and give everyone a chance to live normally. You've already helped us a lot. Since you came to power, sugar has cost 302%, milk 245%, zeythin 184%, flour 59%, bread 60%. Only for milk, bread, electricity, communals, telephones and basic hygiene products should be allocated at least 3,600 dinars. The average salary can live for 7 or 8 days, and the pension for three or four days. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the planned budgets cannot be collected because of this. You might get some help, though. These days, Kostunica and Batic are picking up some Serb on the streets of Belgrade, talking to The Hague, asking how much it costs, taking some money, and so from today to tomorrow. They can be expected to start arresting more often, as they need more money. They may also be helped by this man who is now the minister of police, who was formerly known UDB, but we would not trust Feldmarshal - Covic and Marshal Zivkovic to spend them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1931	The word is made by the MP Vitomir Plužarevic and after him Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the 2001 budget is a new kind of robbery of our people. A sick, fragmented economy after a ten-year terror of the international community because of the war environment and everything that has happened to us, you are now in front of us members and citizens the budget of 130 billion dinars, and we know that the budget in 2000 was 30 billion. Can we all today accept a budget that is four times larger than the previous one? Neither can anyone who is richer than us and who is even safer. The budget had to be stimulating, not repressive, as you DOS gentlemen think you're doing this budget. Are we supposed to think that we're coming to a time of redemption and commitment at all levels from the period of the last communist society? Does the people give you something? He'd give that people, but he's gone. I mean most of our people. There's a group of citizens who can accept from this budget, that's a small percentage. Is that such a big budget of 130 billion and you as proposings think you're going to make it happen? You won't be able to. The people already smell the smell of the people on the street. Since you have fought in this way in the previous period expect the people in the streets again, but now the people will ask you to accept the family budget of that people in a realistic way. Part of the budget that represents expenditure, I believe that the division of 16 - Ministry of Social Affairs - should be increased by 100%, division 17, Ministry of Education and Sports, should be increased by 100%, division number 8, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management - The Agricultural Budget should be increased by 100%. What is the principle of saving, who should save and save from what? Who's going to control that? Independent experts? Do you think there are independent experts in the government? There isn't. Everyone in the government is addicted to mentors out of the country, I'm not going to tell you where that addiction is -- the people know it. You feel that the inflow into the budget needs to be radically improved, you mention that you will end the gray economy and thus boost the economy. That's a good setting. Who's going to do it when the government is unable to do it, because she's shown it with her performances so far. It's not about the time of 100 days, it's about the style of the government's life that expects a major donation, and it's not. You believe this budget, which is proposed to increase by 100% schooling, health care, labour education -- education, education, will increase to 100% compared to previous items. Public consumption should be lower and production should be higher. It's the principle of housekeeping. Not to be a consumer society, and whose goods we're supposed to be spending, ours or someone we're being imposed on. Various governmental advisers are now walking in Serbia and sponsoring municipalities in Serbia that have healthy and quality businesses and thus bring information to the government as well as where to intervene with this budget that is on the agenda today. In municipalities that are underdeveloped and where there is much to be invested, they now interpret that there are no more donations that have been promised in the pre-election activities of DOS, but that any organisation or company should revitalise itself, domiciled in some way that they are not able to say. As for the data that 2.5 million of our families live by some proportion in three ranks today, most of our families are on the verge of existence. You plan to have the consumer basket for the four-member family resolved by the end of the year. I'm asking you by the end of what year? Something about repaying credit, the government predicts that our people will be able to use certain credit privileges in the coming period. It's expected in May or June. Will these loans, such as so far, be conditioned with a new arrest, giving privileges to the Albanian population and other political concessions? Someone in his statement said that the general philosophy of this budget was "we did our best to prepare this budget". A key goal for Serbia to look like one of the European countries: Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Croatia. Let's get back to this level and move on. Are we approaching Europe through these countries? That's a tough philosophy. As for the Agricultural Budget, it is 25% higher than the previous 2000 budget. I advocate that this year's agrarian budget be higher by 100 percent compared to the proposal. I'm not going to give details now, I've attached amendments to the Agrarian budget, so I'll discuss it in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1933	The People's MP Branislav Blazic has the word, followed by the MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a difficult book, this proposal of yours, the Jae-Budget. It weighs billions of zeros. Too many zeroes are embedded in it. Zero alone. Woe to the people under this many zeros and billions. Those billions since August, you haven't passed on yet. She promised you America, and she turned out to be rich for giving and sharing, not for taking and taking. She promised she wouldn't give it to you. And Madeline Albright promised you, so she wouldn't give it to you. The people voted for those billions, not DOS, and got DOS, and didn't get billions. Double up. Which is what you gentlemen are going to supplement this budget with. The production's been dropping since September. Every day 50% falls, 130 billion, 32 billion in the last budget, and so far they've filled it with the sweat of taxpayers, and this one will be filled with blood. So far, they've been yelling at the skin, and you've gone deeper, into the skin, and then into the flesh. There's no money you need to fill it. If all Serbian roosters had corned against taxis and taxes, they wouldn't have outsmarted you as much as you've corned on taxes and taxes. And now, what we have, tax taxes, taxes, and even more now is taxed. Someone said only air, milk and bread were left. By the way, this budget has a psychological problem. He's revolutionary. It's where the euphoria feels too much promise, you haven't been able to brake it and actually look at things, the time in which the earth is located. Here, this budget can be said to be like a corpse, all the organs are there, only life is obviously gone. He's got knowledge in him, but he's got no sense. There's no cold head. It's too hot. Let's just take a look at some of the pearls. Five hundred million for the co-ordination body, so what kind of body is Covic's 500 million. That's a quarter of the health budget, gentlemen, two billion for the whole health care, and a quarter for his body. Who's going to treat you, the time of the sorcery has passed. The treatment requires drugs and high expertise, specialists, with two universities. No doctoral dissertation is worth half the specialization. These people are reduced to the lowest branches. Let's just look at the salaries in the M.P. that are small. Nothing, so 10 billion wear, five times the health budget. That shows how small the health budget is. Let's look at the agrarian budget, which is below 4% today, and so critical last year was over 4% of the participation. For the development and reform of Mr. Gaše Knezevic 50 million. What reforms, when your students are more out of school than at school. How do you implement reforms when students are out of school? I guess we should make sure the kids go to school first, then get them reform. To ensure that they go to school, then you need to raise your salary to the educators. There's a lot of stuff that's been completely tampered with here. And in order to secure the tax, this budget, you have to tax everything. Gentlemen, put this back to work, think about it, don't be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1935	The People's MP Goran Cvetanovic has the word, followed by MP Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fiscal revenue of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget was proposed at 107.6 billion dinars, unlike last year, when it was 37.2 billion dinars. The majority of the government's money primarily plans to collect from taxes, sales taxes 27.4%, excise taxes 23.7% and citizens' income around 23.3%. In order for the government to realise this, above all, too ambitious and one unreal budget, it advocated a large and wide range of taxes. First of all, the tax base has been expanded, and the tax exemption has been narrowed down. The planned alleged reform of the tax system has inevitable consequences. The consequences are primarily a blow to the pocket of Serbian citizens, and according to the proposed tax rules, they will in any case further accelerate inflation growth. Since April of the month, there has been a new wave of purchases, which will primarily raise electricity prices due to the application of the tariff system, due to an increase in the tax rate. What I want to point out and remind the citizens of Serbia, which is primarily that according to the analysis of the Institute for Market Research, the biggest increases, i.e. the price hikes, have just happened with DOS coming to power. First of all, these are essential life supplies, sugar collection by 302%, milk by 245%, Zeytine by 184%, flour by 59%, bread by 60%, etc. The SRS warned of the fake DOS promises and the incompetence of their alleged experts, and above all in the economic sphere. How to charge all these taxes that are due to fill the budget of citizens with an average salary of four thousand dinars, if it is evident, and we all agree that the consumer basket for the four-member family is about 12,000 dinars. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister, who estimated that there are some 330,000 families who are socially endangered. From the above data, in any case, we can conclude that 90% of citizens have reached the lower threshold of social sustainability. Citizens of Serbia who own cars, which are somewhere around 1.3 million, will pay taxes from 600 to 20,000 dinars, depending on the car's cubicity. What's important is what was mentioned in public earlier, and these are Seselj's mobile phone charges, but then it was only 100 dinars, and then there were only 250 thousand mobile phone users. Now there are about 1.6 million citizens using mobile phones and instead of 100 dinars, a tax of 200 dinars is introduced. There are about 1.1 million citizens who own firearms, and for that firearm, a tax is paid, for some weapons, up to 3,000 dinars, all within 15 days, without being able to pay for two or more wars. Socially threatened will thus be further threatened by these taxes, as contributions to solid housing are lifted, and medicines that have been released so far have been placed on the tax list, as well as some other products such as diapers, school supplies, salt, sugar, oil, oil oil for lighting, and for the first time excise duty has been introduced on natural juices, which are primarily consumed by young children and children. The SRS considers it primarily necessary to help private entrepreneurs, as drivers of economic activity, because this is the only possibility of hiring an army of unemployed and excess labour forces. And DOS introduces a special tax regime for private people, who have so far paid their taxes on a flat-rate basis. We are turning the country not into production, but into a reform, or tax country. DOS tax is the only one left for budgeting. Instead of the effect of production, which today is not operational, we are suffocating the private sector with taxes. As for real estate traffic, due to an increase in the tax rate from 3 to 5%, real estate will be transferred to illegal flows. If it is already an unreal budget, it will be unrealistic and impossible to finance planned public expenditures. For the first time, public expenditure users such as the bureaus and agencies of the Government of Serbia, whose needs amount to 10 million, are being introduced. The problems of the grey economy will remain, as the government is unable to control the gray economy, because a reform of many laws is needed, and in some other principles regulate the gray economy. Finally, the excise law can be found to be one high level of arrest by percentages and by coverage, and the law wants to significantly fill exactly the budget on the burden of citizens. The Excise Act does not specify the areas mentioned therein, especially the parts of the law from Articles 9 to 18, as well as the members of 19 and 20. In the end, only one sentence, given that many in DOS keep mentioning transparency, especially ministers with some suspicious higher school, probably liked the word so they keep repeating it, so they make it clear they've met something new. I see here in this budget all the time, in almost every division, for special purposes. These specific purposes have not been defined for what they are and how they are, so that probably the citizens of Serbia can see the transparency of the government in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1937	The word is from MP Marko Jaksic, followed by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1938	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, according to that people's view that everyone complains about their grave, looking at and reading this budget to me has fallen into my eye that when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija in a year, only about 2.7 million marks are foreseen. I think the government's representatives have to agree that it's very small. Especially given the fact that we've designated about 15 million marks for only three municipalities. We can't just have one people and that people who suffer, a people who suffer, tied up somewhere by a ridiculous sum of 2.7 million marks. We can't expect to build these money, I mean new settlements, settlements for returnees, and we can't expect to build these pairs for the Serbs of schools, build homes of health, unless we expect someone else to do this to us. We can't get those money back from colleges if we care about getting the colleges back in Kosovo. I don't think that's the right thing to do, and this should be arranged, unless the government expects the international community to return Serbs, that the international community for Serbs cares, that the international community is building schools for Serbs, that it's making hospitals, that it's giving us back colleges. We can see from experience and we know that they won't do it, neither will KFOR, won't do UNMIK, and that won't do it for sure either, Hashim Thaci. I expect, I hope, that the government, whether in walking, whether in some other way rebalancing this information or this approach will have to correct it. I don't think it's logical that it's correct to have one approach to the people, according to the Serbs down in Kosovo, I repeat once again, they suffer. Except, if we didn't, it seems to me, that part of the territory was written off unless we left it to another. It seems to me that down there the Serbs from the stained veins will resist keeping as many Serbian states down there as possible. They are exposed to demonstrations by all possible factors down below, both KFOR, UNMIK and Shipar. It seems to me that with this kind of relationship and this kind of approach, played down for the same team, we are not rooting for the survival of the Serbian state. I think it's simply easy to convince and tell Serbs that they should go to elections without any conditions, but I also think that for the Serbs living downstairs, that people must work differently and more. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1939	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, and then by MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this budget we have a bill on excise duties and a proposal for a law on sales tax and when it is adopted, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the citizens of our country will think that this budget and tax law are going to an undeveloped country in Europe, going to a country where the consumer basket is ten times smaller than the personal income. We adopt, that is, you gentlemen will adopt tomorrow or the day after tomorrow this law where the consumer basket is three times the personal income. The SS has an objection to the budget, to the Agrarian budget. Mr. Agriculture Minister did not state on page 2 as an item of unmistakable obligation for agricultural producers who handed over their sugar beet, both in Vojvodina territory and in Serbia's territory. A large number of sugar beet producers have not charged from factories in the last two years. We have invested one amendment here, and in particular for the Pomorava district a large number of citizens are asking the factory sugar from gurri for their turnip to be paid. We also remarked on the oil received by the Government of the Republic of Serbia from Italy, to sell the same oil to farmers for 24 dinars. We say that the old government has been milking agricultural producers for the last ten years, and this new one has started milking agricultural producers, by getting something on a gift, and it's also looking to sell to farmers. Also, artificial fertilizer has been given to the government as humanitarian aid, and it sells artificial fertilizer to agricultural producers. It happened two, three, four months ago that we got electricity for free, that we charged the citizens, and we could sort of justify that, given that our systems were in very poor shape. The Soviet Union also has an objection to the percentage that remains in the cities, in the city of Jagodina, Paracina and Mupriya. Jagodina and Mupriu were flooded, in particular in Jagodina over 2.5 thousand houses were flooded, over 700 ha were flooded without compensation being made for the citizens. When it comes to Turkey, a large number of citizens have suffered war damage, and that compensation has not been made to this day. We've asked 5% for these two cities and for Paracino, where the minimum rate is 5.4%, to increase, because that's a small percentage for the development of these three cities. SSJ is also commenting on the distribution of funds for Kosovo, where only 8.880,000 dinars are foreseen, and for one and a half municipalities in southern Serbia, 500 million dinars. Gentlemen, Serbs in Kosovo, a large number of Serbs do not work. Five members and six families have nothing to live on. They get help on a spoon, and we, or this assembly, don't care about Kosovo. I don't see what the priority is to make such a drastic difference, when it comes to south Serbia and Kosovo, in the budget. We propose that 500 million dinars, as scheduled for one and a half municipalities in southern Serbia, be separated for Kosovo and 80,880,000 dinars heading south of Serbia. The Serbian Unity Party notes the city traffic tax, passenger traffic and cross- city traffic. If we know that users are students, workers who do not receive salaries in factories, pensioners, and the direct tax affects the increase of ticket prices in local and intercity transport. If we remind ourselves of what's been going on in the last time period, that the participation of 36 dinars, 18 dinars for a prescription has been introduced, and don't let the President of the Government blame me for saying that on RTS, he said that every wish is paid in particular. It's not a wish if you go to the intern and the interns give you instructions to go to the lab and go to the ultrasound and you have to pay for every new review. The Serbian Unity Party will not support such a package of measures and is proposing to the Serbian government to adopt amendments the Serbian Unity Party has submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1941	Mr. Zivko Selakovic has the word, and the next one registered for the discussion is MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1942	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given that we have combined six points of the agenda, and it is related to sales taxes, the Agrarian budget, the budget in general, it is very difficult for these five minutes to say what a man thinks and needs to say and so I will look back only on the Agrarian budget, because I think it is most necessary at this point if we look at the situation and the environment in which we are. The agrarian budget of 5,100,000 dinars is foreseen in line with the real possibilities of the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia, and from that aspect, modest funds for agriculture, forestry and water industry are allocated, but they are not nearly enough to meet the needs of agriculture in general. The situation of agricultural production and the economic situation of agricultural cooperatives and agricultural enterprises is such that the means envisaged can only ease or halt the further trend of decline and very little to speed up and advance some of the measures and actions. According to Article 2, it enters the financial year with previously earned liabilities of 437 million dinars, and of which 195 million dinars and subsidies for pasteurised milk are 242 million dinars. If the Agrarian budget aims to bridge and improve production, we welcome the approach to abolishing the subsidies for pasteurised milk from 1.3.2001, because, through this species, virtually premiumed consumption has so far been through significant means, not production. This year, 150 million dinars are projected in the position of improving livestock, and now we have set aside 242 million dinars for consumption subsidies, which shows how much more we are helping consumption than production, which I think is the other way around. The milk premium is reserved for farmers, farmers and businesses to amortise the diversity of the price of livestock food compared to the price of raw milk and thus to ensure safety and stability, and very little to improve milk production. Article 4 of Title 2 regulates the issue of monthly inflow dynamics and drains of funds into the Agrarian budget. I therefore advocate to establish precisely that cattlemen and farmers are in priority for the payment of funds and that must be monthly liquidity, and other investments and purposes that can wait to depend on the balance sheet inflows of funds. Significant funds shall be allocated for the health care of livestock from the stock fund. I propose that the degree of organisation of mobility and prevention be raised to the highest level in order to preserve livestock living goods from possible imports and the transfer of severe livestock diseases and diseases. A position for the regulation of agricultural land containing a series of measures such as works, comassions, disposal and other than only 40 million dinars does not make it small, but symbolic means relative to importance and need. I propose that all extraordinary revenues made during the year be directed for these purposes. In the case of unmistakable liabilities on page 2 in table number 3, it says: the resuscitation of the village and the rural land with an amount of 28. 364.160 dinars -- you don't see enough of what that amount refers to. I must underline and comment on the past government, or the Ministry of Agriculture, if these are the amounts according to the contracts signed by former Agriculture Minister Jovan Babovic with farmers, and for the purpose of political marketing and propaganda, I suggest that the item be deleted and transferred to the position of raising livestock. Not exactly, which I couldn't conclude from, and so I ask if the funds from this Agrarian budget can be used by workers from Kosovo and Metohija? There are more farmers in Serbian villages living in the area who are struggling with major difficulties. I think in this way, as I tend to say, from today to tomorrow we're funding agriculture, it's not exactly the right solution, so I suggest that this Agrarian budget not be adopted on the basis of all of this. I have one big remark, and I couldn't say that because the Committee on Agriculture had its amendment, a very good proposal, constructive. We appreciated the indemnity, we weren't immodest, and we suggested a number of 800 million dinars from the budget reserves to add to the Agrarian budget, and therefore, I know that the government has already rejected this and for this reason the MPs' Club of the Party of Serbian Unity and I, the member of that parliamentary club, will not support the Agrarian Budget. I think we need to find more permanent funding as far as agrarians are concerned. So this goes as one necessary proposal with a budget like this, and that would end up, if we could deal with it a little bit and find a more permanent source of funding when it comes to agriculture. Just give me one more minute. We know that very large funds are being poured into the Serbians. I have not seen today that there has been a report on the spending of these funds for the past year and I suggest that it be made, as well as a plan for 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1943	Mr. Radojko Petric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1944	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected members of the government, in parliament there is almost no more debate than the budget debate. That's why we have to be patient to hear more different opinions and suggestions. I hope that the parliamentary majority will not only stick to the government's proposal, but will accept relevant suggestions and proposals. I believe that, in the draft budget, funds for certain purposes are not provided in the relevant amounts, and that it is still necessary for them to provide funds in a larger amount. In particular, I have in mind the following -- firstly, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, from which funds are provided to encourage regional development, the draft budget has provided funding of only 497 million and 300,000. If we bear in mind that in Serbia we have a significant number of underdeveloped areas, 37 municipalities, it is indeed extremely insufficient. As is known, not sufficiently developed mountain-mounted areas, areas far from developed economic centres, border areas, and especially Raško-Polim area, with a mixed national composition of the population. These areas, instead of approaching the average rate of Serbia's underdevelopment, are increasingly lagging behind and the gap is growing. With this trend of development, economic and social stability cannot be ensured in the Raško-Polim area, as a specific area. It is likely that this reason and this economic lagging will contribute to the creation and political instability and harm all citizens living there. When the government was formed in January of this year, this assembly was talking about the issue, and the Prime Minister made a promise to take care of it. We now see that there is no proper attention given to this question. Last year, the SPS government provided 0.7% of the funds in the republic's total budget for these purposes. It was justified to increase that participation for these purposes this year. But if the structure is maintained, it means 0.7% of the participation in the total budget, as was last year, and not as proposed, 0.4%, then not 497 million and 300,000, but 905 million and 600,000, should be provided in the Development Fund. So, to remain the same ratio, and it would be logical and to increase, that the participation would be greater. The funds for this increase are projected to be provided from foreign donations and loans, since otherwise the budget deficit is projected. This is not some significant increase in the overall budget, but for undeveloped areas it means a lot, and therefore, now and in the future it will mean a lot to Serbia. The amendment has been tabled in this regard, and I hope the government accepts the proposal. The second question, in which I consider it necessary to amend the draft budget, concerns the separation for science and technological development. Isolated for these purposes should have priority. If it takes into account the extent of economic sanctions and the international blockade for the past 10 years, it has affected our technological lagging, and on the other hand, accelerated and impressive technological development in the world, then, indeed, more resources should be provided for this purpose. It must be kept in mind that knowledge is the main factor of development. We cannot get carried away with the thought that we will achieve significant development with cheap labour and that, thanks to this, we will achieve large exports of our products. In fact, labour force participation in total costs has been reduced to about 10-15%, so that the fact has little importance, as it was before. It is therefore important to invest more in science and technological development and create a basis that will draw forward. The Socialists made sure last year that 1.4% of the total budget was allocated for these purposes, and now a 1,1% participation is proposed. It's really hard to justify it like this, and if nothing else, at least to keep that relationship as it was last year for science and technological development. Today, the Prime Minister has proposed that if MPs propose certain funds for some purposes where an increase is being made to say on the other side where separations should be reduced. My proposal goes in that direction to reduce the allocation, and since deficit budget financing is foreseen, to increase that part of this section where 21 billion and 800 million are said, because that is one envisaged, some estimated figure, therefore, and for this part, any foreign donations, as well as credit, I think it can be provided and that it deserves attention to make corrections in this part.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1945	Thank you. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1946	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, esteemed journalists, the budget is an opportunity to talk about the public needs of a country over the course of one year. The task is to take care of the whole problem. The whole problem is the overall interest of the Serbian state and its citizens during a financial year. I do not dispute that intention with you, and I think that every government has a clear desire to do this in a correct way. Another important feature of the budget is the even burden of taxpayers and citizens of one country, who, on various grounds, allocate funds for their country's budget, their republic. There's been a discrepancy here, but given the time we've been left to talk about these things, I just want to figure it out, I don't have time to elaborate. The first lack of this budget is its imbalance. So they're not the same income and cost-effective side, and that's what they're supposed to say, not just to show that we know that, but to know the risks of such a budget. Some colleagues have already said that this could be an inflationary budget and that it could be a budget that, if donations do not arrive after the donor conference, that it stands in reason, leads to a cutting of consumption, without telling which users and how much. So the users of the 2001 budget have no clear idea how much money they can spend on what they normally have to do over the course of one year. The next lack of this budget is that there is no such thing as a consolidated balance based on which you could clearly see exactly what it belongs to and what it is to do during one financial year. And the risk of this budget lies with the government, Mr. President, and is borne by the Democratic Party, which is obviously behind this project this year. As a socialist, I would be interested in the adoption of the budget as proposed, because I think it is easy to criticise it during its implementation in 2001. As a MP and as a citizen, I would like the budget to be adopted with the proposed amendments that we really see quite a bit today. As Cacanin, I would like to say that at a time when the Socialist Party of Serbia was responsible for the rule of the municipality of Cačak remained from a turnover tax of at least 14.4%. Today it's 8.4%. Did the citizens of Cačka resent Mr Zoran Djindjic by having supported Mr Vuksanovic rather than Mr Djindjic? My dear gentlemen, the difference between 8.4 and 14.4 is enormous. Let those citizens who believe that decentralisation, as promised in the DOS pre-election campaign, trust the DOS, think about it. With regard to this problem, I have submitted a concrete amendment, which in financial terms weighs 46 million, but we will talk about it when the amendment comes to the agenda. And, unfortunately, I have to say, I saw in what the Finance Committee delivered, the amendment of the three DOS MPs from Cacko who asked for the distribution of sales tax funds was rejected at a higher rate than was proposed. There are too many taxes. There is a tradition in Serbia that weapons buy people from different needs. One number of people are those who are doing this to protect their property, their herd and their households in hill-mounted areas, such as Golia, such as some other parts of our Republic. Some of them sold everything they had to get guns. It's not fair that that's why they pay taxes today, and right now, without being able to do it in a time-limit. During the government of Milan Stojadinovic, dog-holding was taxed. A wise Chacan killed his dog, hung it on the municipal door, and wrote, "I killed you for tax, now let him bark like a cut." Make sure you don't take that risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1947	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1948	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the government, Minister Djelic said in his statement that there was a lot of unintended spending in the previous budget. Let him take a look at the amendment I gave to Beocino municipality so he can explain how the municipality will be able to finance itself without purposefully spending money. Simple and simple. Secondly, the same gentleman began to compare us to Romania. Since I know the Romanians are coming to Vojvodina to dig corn and do other things to feed the families, and we are not leaving Vojvodina to feed our families to dig corn in Romania, if Mr. Minister dragged us abroad to Serbia to make us happy and bring us to Romania's level, it's better that he moved... Because if there's any money in the budget at all, it's supposed to work for the economy. And to do that, then you DOS gentlemen should connect your various dogs from all kinds of crisis headquarters, to stay people, to make the economy work right, and then that economy work, maybe not shiny, but better safe than it is now. When you write the laws and give them here in the package, at least don't make the most common accounting mistakes because in the law on the participation of municipalities and cities or in the law on public incomes and expenditures you express one rate - up to 3.5, in one, and in the second - to four, and it's a tax on the fund. If it's already the same proposal, it's at least time not to throw it at such numbers, at least it's time for those numbers to be agreed on and in the same package in which all three laws give us equal suggestions. Mr. Prime Minister said that if we were to suggest that something should be taken down here where to add and vice versa, if we said something should be added, then let's say and where to take it off. I suggest that some of the funds of the Justice Ministry be transferred to the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection, so that Mr Djindjic would simply not be brought into an awkward situation to deceive this assembly, since here at the time of the exposure he said that within 6 months, that is, the ministry that will treat the area of environmental protection, natural resources, etc. be defined. I think it's unrealistic to think that this ministry will be, especially what we heard yesterday on the Committee from Mr. Advisors for that administration that they're not thinking, maybe even by summer they start thinking about how to make a ministry. Because I'm talking to the Department of Justice. Because Mr Batic and some government ministers, vice-presidents, are practically replacing prosecutors, they are accusing and judging, so I think the district prosecutor's office could be abolished, that's 82 million, so the municipal public prosecutor's office 163 million, and some courts could be abolished. Then, there is no need for Mr Batic and several others to work alone and why spend the money twice. Well, when the function is praised, let them add up everything and I'd like Mr. Djindjic to tell me where he's buying, when he says the salaries are really up. Where I'm going and where most people in Serbia are going to the store and we see in the market realistically, at least at this point, I want to believe that it's going to be better, but at this point it's different. At this point, that salary is actually less, at least where we shop. Let me say one more thing. Mr Ceda Jovanovic initially said that we here in three days need to finish the job so that municipalities can, ultimately on April 1st, have the power to spend money in the budget. So Mr. Jovanovic will have to clarify his expertise to me because I don't know these experts who can make municipal budgets, schedule the assembly and bring it in two days, 30 and 31 to do so. Or maybe it could be better, especially considering that the gentleman said that this budget that he had planned and proposed wasn't a holy letter, that there might be some moving things here in the Assembly, so until this is over, people in the municipalities can't make a budget. Therefore, it would be best if Mr. Jovanovic continued to tell here what he is doing best, and what he talks about every time, one and the same, as a parrot, and that's the story of some thieves, to talk about some former regime, to mention some repressive regime, now this is no longer a repressive regime, but let's say some people who escort Mr. Cedo Jovanovic to the Assembly and then leave some guns on the porter's office, if it's not a repressive regime, if this is a democracy and a democratic society, then why does Mr. Cedo Jovanovic follow such a deran when this is a democratic society. In a democratic society, there is no need for the heads of parliament to accompany two or three bodyguards, or what they call it. And I'd like him to deny me, but I see this budget as a budget that doesn't relieve the economy, but that's why it significantly burdens the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1949	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, dear guests, and that is where I think of the esteemed representatives of the government, because after two months we have the honor of seeing the representatives of the government. The Serbian public looked forward to the long-awaited laws of the expert government, as we were busy with the Rules of Procedure for two months, with a tax on numbers and with great impatience and a large number of MPs expected the first serious laws of the expert government. We were expecting expert laws from the expert government. However, the first laws and first great disappointment, the disappointment of the people, the disappointment of the MPs. Iola serious graders, and very mild assessors, this package of laws might be given to a unit, but stricter graders, I mean the people, I don't believe they'd give it a unit. Mild graders would give him a unit because he's been rewritten from books, because he missed the topic, because he's not going to achieve what he's expected to do, but I'll say later, the effects are going to be quite the opposite. The people wouldn't even give him a unit, because he failed all the DOS coalition's election promises. It was sad to hear the explanation of those in charge in front of the government. Why? In the light of such serious laws, the only argument was the story of old mistakes, for the hundredth time. Mr. Pelevic, it is clear why it has not been put on the agenda of the Final Account Act. If the Final Account Act were put on the agenda, there would be no argument. The final bill clearly shows that money was spent, that every dinar was spent on purpose, and there would be no arguments for explanation. So, the final bill should have been put in, as it has always been and as it has been done in all normal countries. Mr. Minister, I have to talk to you, you know how it works, we haven't seen the consolidated balance this time. Simply, for the people, you should have given us one piece of paper from which we're going to see what is the sum of the federal budget, the republican budget, pension and disability insurance and social security, and put it in the context of the social product, so let's see how much public spending participates in the social product. Children in economic school know that if this percentage exceeds 50%, there are malignancies and chaos, the whole economy goes to the gray economy and there is chaos. This time it's a case. Total public expenditure exceeds 60% of the social product. Why, you shouldn't have said, because the social product has dropped by 50% since October 5th. You might as well answer why he fell. He fell because of Mr. Chad and similar to him, due to the fictional fleet of the old system, which is why we broke the personnel spine of the Serbian economy and about 100 companies, which worked during the most severe sanctions, stopped working. So there's no production. As soon as there's no production, no real budget, it goes on the back of the citizens. I have to tell you something, you failed your election promises. You promised billions of dollars in donations. They're gone. Every day from all the pillars of the newspaper, the people read about the secret accounts of the bearer of the former regime. The people were looking forward to it. When a man has 10 billion dollars, that's 600 billion dinars, so the people won't pay any taxes for five years. You've satanized a lying people. Where's the money from those accounts? Today and yesterday we read Mr. Obradovic - incomes from extra profits, those who got rich at the time of sanctions, tens of billions of dollars. Where's that income? We don't see him anywhere in the budget. There wouldn't be a budget deficit of 30 billion if you'd put in at least that income on extra income for citizens who got rich. It's just stories and stories. Mr. Minister, access to the budget on the revenue side, so-called The real approach, you learned in France, it's not negative, but it means the lowest personal income, equal to the consumer basket. It cannot be applied in Serbian terms. You can't tax without eliminating the social moment from tax. You've eliminated the social moment from tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1951	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1952	So, you've taxed everything you can tax through sales taxes on children's diapers, food and everything else. Through another tax type, you taxed citizens regardless of income, on non-income assets. I'm asking you to simulate, see how every MP in the O.R. gets through. I can give you hundreds of middle-class examples of Mr. Djindjic, who will go into the lower class if he pays taxes on the house he inherited from his father, his father made loans, a Serbian house that has 150 squares, if he was a hunter, so he has a rifle, a caribine, maybe a gun, if you cheated on him, and did cheat on him by the Car Import Regulation, so a poor Serb imported a car of 3,000 cubics for 1,000 marks, and now he has to pay 21,000 taxes on the car, 20,000 taxes on the house and 7,000 taxes on weapons. That's 47 grand. It's 4,000 a month, regardless of income and property. So, one doctor's family, engineering goes into that lower social class, and they'll come on the list to spend three billion on social income. That's not how tax laws can be passed. You can get better, you can get to two. I've seen the amendments. The SPS MPs gave a whole series of amendments and were very constructive on boards. We are a constructive opposition. We criticized taxes on utility services. We've proven to you that you're going to shut down the utility companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1953	I'm asking you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1954	... He charges 37 per cent, pays 20 per cent of the tax, he can close down the company. You accepted that amendment, you accepted the amendment on the reduction of excise duties. If, by the end of the debate, you accept amendments to property taxes, which do not bring income, means, the house that a man inherited or made out of credit, to a weapon that was trophy to him or came to him, to a car that he imported without knowing it would damage him, this tax law could come to a duo. Yeah, if you give us a chance to keep helping you. You're not giving us a chance to help you with this kind of restriction for five minutes. It is clear that we are well-intentioned, that we have given all amendments in order to repair this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1955	The People's Messenger Srdjan Petrovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1956	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, surely through the budget and related system laws we can see DOS policy, which it has already set up during the elections. It will now, through this system of system laws, be able to show the foundations of its further policy. I would talk more about the principles that I think are good in this tax system and some conditions, which will need to be fulfilled in order to achieve them, more than concrete figures. I think the main advantages of this new public finance policy are simplicity in the application of the tax system, above all I mean sales tax, logical tax unification, taxis and other taxes. We know that before we had some, practically, taxes that were different names. The people were under the impression that he wasn't paying them, and he was actually doing it. Preventing improvisation in the economy, I think this new system that's public, which is simple, economic operators are going to work on some of the criteria that are around the world, so they're going to be able to recognize their business. So far it's been very cloudy, because we've had the opportunity to make profits in some other way, not how normal it is in the world. Then, the list of exemptions given in sales tax is according to European Union directives, except bread, milk, and now for these special publications, this system is certainly a good basis for moving to value added tax, which exists everywhere in Europe, except for us, unfortunately in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So what's very important and I think it's crucial when we talk about this system, which is to move social policy out of the tax system. It's a final break-up with socialism and it's clear to everyone. It's going to have to be in expenditure policy from now on. So in that part of the expenditure will be targeted at social programmes, not as so far through tax policy, where they were practically tax-free and those who had no basis for it. Then we have what DOS announced, one part of decentralisation through larger original municipality incomes. Also, for the first time, it is allowed for the AP Vojvodina to have some income. It is important that this proposal makes clear everything that makes revenue public through that budget. And also, this system is real, because it's not developed, as the promoter said, we can't deal with development right now, it's going to be left for a little bit closer to the mid-term. What I think is also important, and what is important for all economic operators, is that these systems will start to think in one more orderly way, so that they can transfer these good experiences of the tax system to their activities, to their calculation of profits and so on. Also, I think our official statistics will operate with more real data than ever before. And, above all, because of, hopefully, a reduction in the gray economy. There's something I'd like to say about spending priorities, and above all these are education salaries, that's one of the DOS priorities, then what's been introduced, and that's a one-time fund. It is also important to know that these traffic programmes are now in the scope of taxes, not earlier than the specific rail tax. So, the transition fund, and that's something that's important, is something that's actually going to help overcome that social component when privatizing and restructure the economy. We need to know and that citizen needs to know that a certain number of people will be out of a job. They need to be provided with one possibility of compensation until they are able to find their way through new employment. It is also important that expenditures are intended to cover deficits, pension insurance funds, health insurance and the labour market. So basically deficits are passed through the budget this time. What is important, the assumption of the implementation of this law, all of these laws, is what is the government's great task, and not only of these, but of the federal ones, as well as the achievement of macroeconomic projections for 2001. First of all, I'm thinking about inflation, so how did the proposer refer to 30%?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1957	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1958	Extending the base of tax obligations, and what's important is the education of taxpayers, so without it we won't be able to implement all this. The consensus of the public on goals, and above all, businessmen and privates, so they need to know that this is going to their advantage, and if they think at first they might have something going on at the expense of their work. Maintaining the unity of political entities, and in this regard to the public, according to the implementation of this law, also supporting the international community, support for citizenship. When we say citizens' support, I mean the whole reform law package, not just this, but the construction of a new tax administration. Then, the introduction of the information system, and above all, because of the transition to VAT. The consistency and uncompromisingness of the government and the finance minister, and above all, I mean in implementing this plan, so they shouldn't give in. Also, curbing the grey economy, the success of privatisation, to fill the deficits, the increase in budget charges. For all these reasons, we must support the government, vote in favour of the draft budget, and I think that this draft budget and with all these tax laws should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1959	The word is by MP Lazar Marjanski, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1960	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say a few words about these laws. That's enough here, I'd just say to the Prime Minister, I followed you, you said the principles of savings, the reduction of the workforce were first-class. I think that's what you said. Does this mean a reduction in labour force, that there will be layoffs of workers from a public enterprise, such as EPS and NIS and a reduction of personal income. It connects with Dr Mirosinka Dinkic's vision, which said that this year there should be about 250 to 300,000 people out of work. Does this mean that in public enterprises, such as NIS and EPS, there will be a reduction in personal income, and about 30% of how much I counted on it. So you need to reduce your personal income in these companies. The second thing I noticed, priorities, like you said school, health care and retraining the workforce. Education and health care is normal for those who work, what needs, and how much help is sure to help people get to or keep certain jobs. The only thing I didn't like was the three or four sentences you just said about production. We have a drastic downturn in production, and I can tell you that from the mid-bath district, an extremely small number of companies are working. Many companies are under bankruptcy. I don't see how we can start that production. What is it that can start that production? Whether it's donations, whether it's a new technology, which we have to invest or one way out of transformation, to move into the private sector. I'm sure production is the main momentum of all the other shops and the improvement of education and health care and everything else. I'll give you an example from this budget, as you said, what is it that we propose to improve. Here's the thing, the number-conto of 911-602, it's about banks. I've got a position on the banks, because they're an extremely big thief's nest, and with various interest, they're destroying the economy. To transfer that money to the agrarian budget, but to one special one, where it would be a fight against weeds and other pests. That's about 600 million dinars. I don't think the banks need that money at all, that they should take it from them, because they took all the money from us from the economy and rob us with our money. And another one-digit conto 901-012. Namely, it's about income, just a moment, income on copyright, patents and connections, promotions. I think that should be reduced and that this part should be transferred to the fight against cancer. Unfortunately, it has shown, at least in my area, that the percentage of lung cancer, skin cancer and colon cancer has increased. You gave one good part in the fight against cancer, and to make this part and more advance science, simply to import some apparatus that will detect that cancer and prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1961	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1962	The respected presidency, respected MPs, respected members of the government, reflects the government's budget as a synthetic document the government's overall economic and social policy for the current year, and talks about the concept, the government's economic concept, about the government's attitude towards citizens, but also about the government itself. If we see proposals and what they offer in structure, what effects they will only cause, then this budget and all the following laws can't, can't and shouldn't be accepted. That's why there's a lot of reasons, but I'll only mention a few for limited time. 1. The budget should not be accepted because it is not balanced. Incomes are less than expenditure, which says by itself. The government has well planned what they will and where they spend and how much. I don't know how he's gonna get all that. The budget deficit is over 21 billion dinars, which is about 16% of the total budget or around 700 million marks. This information also speaks of the government itself. About the government as an irresponsible government, it does not respect its election promises either. The reminders for the sake of this, the government as its first pre-election task, set - the adoption of a draft law on a balanced budget. 2. The proposed budget and the accompanying laws have an inflator caratker. The adoption of the product and service tax law will lead to a general increase in prices because the law will give rise to product prices, where the tax has been lower so far and the prices of products already included in the tax will certainly not be reduced. The forecast deficit in the budget will certainly be part of the budget, as it stands in the material, and perhaps in general, covered by the debt of the Republic, and this may also mean printing money. 3. The proposed budget also shows the government's attitude towards production as the most important segment of every country's life. In the structure of budget income, from corporate income tax, only 2.04% are foreseen, which actually says what the government thinks about production. That's not surprising, because DOS and crisis headquarters in the last six months have led to a drastic decline in production in all areas, and there is no logical plan for what is not. That the government is not interested in the production, speech and resources provided for by the Fund for the Development of Economy, which is less than 0.4%. 4. The budget is partly and voluntary, containing certain items in expenditure. Certainly they are not small, they are subsidies in the economy, reconstruction programmes, traffic programmes, the Transition Fund and other incentives, about 16 billion dinars, which are not clear how they will be divided, by which criteria and by which entities. 5. The budget and the accompanying regulations will produce a decline in the standard of living of citizens, as almost the entire burden of budget income has been set up and broken across citizens, through income taxes, through excise and traffic tax covering almost everything that is necessary for people's lives. The introduction of sales taxes for certain products will particularly affect the poorest categories of the population, which have been protected in the current economic policy. Six. The budget and following regulations will also produce a deterioration of the lives of citizens and at the level of local self-government. This is through the fall of local self-government, namely, provided through the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expensives, the elimination of compensation for the use of municipal goods of general interest, which had a special purpose. These are, for example, building a system, referring to water supply, treatment of waste water, maintenance of infrastructure and public lighting, digging of arterial wells and so on. Elimination of resources for a solid residential building, which for a number of people was the only chance to reach the roof over their heads. On the contrary, municipalities have been given income in terms of income tax, which will not be for a particular purpose, but according to the assessment, that is, the political will of the local government. The municipalities also had an obligation to finance and entrusted jobs... (President: please, time. )......................................................................................................... They had received funds from the government before, and now they will have to provide it through an increased rate of participation of municipalities in the sales of products and services tax. In the conditions in which we are now located, which is a decline in production, price and production services, inflation, and especially existing economic structures in municipalities, many of them will not be able to meet their budget for these purposes. And for all these reasons, the draft budget and the accompanying laws should not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1963	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic, and after that, MP Gordana Pop - Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1964	Mr. President, I would like to explain with the following arguments why I do not think the proposed budget document for 2001 should be accepted. First, I oppose the draft budget based on brutal and unprecedented intervention from the population so far. Secondly, I do not accept the rapporteur's manners that the budget is filled with tax accounts, and that in no document, it does not say anything in any word about a key matter, which is how it thinks it ensures economic growth and improves business conditions for those who need to create a basis for taxation. The government is doing exactly the opposite. With the proposed budget, through the introduction of a 3.5% tax on profit funds, it adds to the already overburdened economy. Unreal, and deprived of every base, expectations of collecting 55 billion from sales taxes, and of the personal income tax of 25 billion, unless the proposer thinks that the people might have some money coming from the side, some money that he didn't earn. In the draft budget, inflation of 30% is also planned for this year, which I estimate is underestimated, because in January inflation was 3%, in February 3.2%, between 3% and 3.2%, which means that for the first quarter inflation is already 9.4%, and hence it is not logical and can't be believed that in the other quarter, or that inflation will be 7%, in order to be within 30% of the amount in the document. On the contrary, I can prove that minimal inflation, after the adoption of all tax and excise documents and with expected increases in electricity prices and other energy sources, is not below and will not be below 50%. The insistence to adopt a document that has in its final statement is at least unserious, and especially the way it is thought to cover the loss. So what we're suggesting is that we sell the property for 10 million and make 12 billion in debt, or maybe we get donations. As a patriot, I sincerely believe that the price of the donation will not be the delivery of a number of Serbs to The Hague, nor the conduct of any other concessions, and even worse, the acceptance of an absolutely humiliating subjective relationship. We are therefore offered to sell assets and to live at the expense of a reduction in government property, to still be in debt for 12 billion. I don't know how much more logical it is, maybe it is, and I don't think it is. I think, therefore, that it is not clear that the draft budget, although perfectly crafted, is nevertheless made up of hypothetically, probably by some alchemist recipe, and using well-known method of thinking, as well as squatting. Such a proposal is based on unwarranted optimism and technically represents fiction, known as the "perpetum of the mobile" or an attempt to obtain energy from nothing. By adopting such a proposal, we can be sure that there will be an enormous increase in company liquidity, and given that there will be no significant inflow of foreign capital in this year, this means an imminent increase in the inflation planned by the budget, which will result in the collapse of the planned concept of the implementation of the draft budget. I suggest, therefore, that the proposed document be withdrawn and completed, which means that real resources are found, income balances and expenditures are balanced, with fewer interventions than the population and creating an environment for the expansion of production. I'll talk about concrete contributions when there's a debate in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1965	The People's Messenger, Gordana Pop-Lazic, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals have been very serious about this assembly debate today, since it is about the draft budget law, which is one of the most important laws and of course these accompanying laws that show us how we're going to fill the budget. Unfortunately, the congregation’s majority did not give us the opportunity to participate constructively in this debate, and we will have to narrow it down to a minimum of which, of course, we will not be able to look at the overall problem. But looking at the budget and that revenue and that spending side, believe me, I couldn't help thinking that it was simply impossible for Minister Djelic and the other members to have some elementary knowledge about the situation of our country's economy and what is the wage capacity of our citizens. Unfortunately, they showed their ignorance, and Mr Djindjic as prime minister and Mr Djelic as finance minister apparently did not go to Washington to get those $100m dollars and prove to the US Congress that the democratisation was going a little slower than their mentors asked them to, but to take this package of laws to them and get an ausways with him so that they could go to the Serbian Parliament, or to vote with their assembly majority, and thus bring the country's practical economy to a complete collapse, and the people completely alienate and thus create appropriate conditions for further manipulation and disbursement of our state and bring into full independence of the Serbian people from American charity. However, as far as the draft budget law is concerned, in this presentation, I will analyse it with three aspects, its amount, although there is a imbalance between the revenue and expenditure side, the overall budgetary intervention, because don't forget that we have both the federal and the republican, municipal and the budget of the city of Belgrade and that what we have here today is not all Serbia's citizens need to take out of their pocket, but that these other cash registers have to fill in, but as far as its amount is concerned, the amount itself is independent of trying to cover all the public revenues of republican importance in the total amount of disproportionately high, and the very structure of income opens up a series of dilemmas. That amount from the aspect of the fiscal premium of all tax entities is more than impossible and unacceptable. This much increase in budgets is based on the beautiful desires of those who created it, primarily to rule with the help of big money, reform the tax system itself, to take the field of the gray economy by taxes on excises and taxes on transport. Unfortunately for them, these are only wishes and no commitment can be achieved in this way. The DOS government cannot, through its manipulative procedure, conceal the failure of its work at all levels so far, including a number of failures, including a failure to charge, i.e. raising funds for the needs of the provisional budget of the Republic of Serbia established by a special government regulation. The inflow of public revenue has not been achieved in projected dynamics. It would be necessary for the Government to announce how much funds it has collected through public revenue for the benefit of the budget and how many donations from foreign partners since the arrival of DOS to power have entered the Republic of Serbia, and how much of all aid has been spent through the provisional republican budget, because we have a proposal in Article 5. The law says it will only tell us through the 2001 final budget account. It is hard to find at least one point, at least one problem, at least one question or commitment promised by DOS in the election campaign, which it has achieved. The objective participants of political and economic life, as all citizens already point out and underline it. It is also necessary to present this fact and this claim for the congregation speaker. DOS has not fulfilled its promises and has not fulfilled them. The improvement in the economic situation of citizens is gone, and production stands, increasing the prices of products that directly affect living standards, inflation is increasing and certainly and unsustainable, investment is missing, employment is reduced, pensions of late, social giving are largely promised, increased reforms are missing, gentlemen, promised inclusion in international institutions and organisations, only co-operation that we should not accept in this way with The Hague is visible. Mr Batic came out, but he said after his claim that the competent republican authorities would arrest those who are not our citizens and deliver them to The Hague, he said - there is no need for Serbia to be a base for war criminals. There has been an arrest of Milomir Stakic, and Mr. President Kostunica is making all this a statement and says he disagrees, as a lawyer there is no legal basis. Is this Mr. Kostunica playing the French maid maybe? He knows what our people mean in our jargon. Such a degree of fiscal press... (President: I ask you to bring an end. )......................................................................................................... Leads us to a new macroeconomic policy on this plan, which can lead to alimony of public expenditure through a new primary emissions and a new inflation spiral this year. It is necessary to reduce this amount of budget and to know our reality when it comes to the way it is spent. In particular, a significant commitment that would lead to an increase in salaries for educators, health workers, an increase in pensions, an Agrarian budget, which is around the world at least 15% of the total budget, and we have less than 4%, to help those economic operators who have not found themselves in a difficult and unexplainable situation because they are incompetent and unemployed, but because of the environment in which they have been found for the already known reasons caused by external factors. When it comes to overall budgetary arrest, it is significantly greater projecting than real opportunities, so that the enormously high participation of the budget in Serbia's social product, although by showing municipal budgetary actions that are yet to come, gentlemen, this intervention will be even greater. This concept of budgetary arrest will provide a new form of state-run governance over the economy and a new form of all kinds of DOS governance. I just want to get the citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1967	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, a little overkill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1968	Everyone's a little out of line, so here I am. What is it that our new citizens have to pay, tax on use and the carrying of certain goods. On cars, for example. A 1,600-cubic car, 2,400 dinars, carrying weapons, for example, one hunting carbine, 3,000 dinars, 1,000 dinar hunting rifles, a small-caliber gun of 600 dinars, a 900 dinar revolver. And I have to tell you something, last night about half a dozen people called me from around Belgrade and said -- feel free to say my name and last name, my name is Bogoljub Jovanovic, from Sibnica, orders Vladi, no fuel, no oil for the spring set, no payment for the purchase of milk, no premiums, no arrival, but don't go abroad and ask for that $100 million, we will collect and give it here in Serbia. The Serbian people are not a beggar people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1969	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I was expecting an equal assembly match between the government and the opposition. I thought you'd let us really show you what doesn't seem right in the budget, help you in advance, in the beginning to remove mistakes, which we recognize easier than you. You did not make it possible, you humiliated the National Assembly and MPs today by forcing us to discuss the six most important laws in principle for five minutes, and now, as time expires and as you become impatient, you immediately start to shout and disturb the speaker after five minutes. And to accept that, you could have voted and not to discuss the budget at all, but what we're telling you now, I'm sure it's waiting for you to achieve this budget. You're not ready for some serious debate and you don't need it today. In order to be able to debate seriously when our Prime Minister, the day the government was elected, announced that the new tax policy would remove part of the heavy burden from the economy and profits. How am I supposed to discuss it when he said he was going to end a whole series of other attacks by the former regime's imaars? And today I'm trying to figure out what they're imposing and the harrazzi are abolishing the new power and I can't find them. So what I least expect from you is that this is where the Prime Minister and all of you who said something else in the campaign, excuse Vojislav Seselj and ask him to forgive you for muddying him and lying to him. Or at least, if you gave him the right to authorship for many taxes and contributions, that's how you baptize it in the budget law, and in the excise law, and in the traffic tax law. Yes, we radicals have been trying to figure out how the state can still finance itself, what isn't affected, that certain categories of citizens won't feel so much if they can pour it into the pockets of the poor. But you've gone too far, my dear gentlemen, you've said that by suppressing smuggling, by suppressing customs violations, you'll put money into that budget. Well, since when is DOS in power? Well, since when do your unconstitutional regulations apply? You didn't tell us here how much money was put into the budget? Where are the cigarette helmets stopped? Where are the stopped oil boots? Yoshonam complained the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia was unable to stop smuggling, so he has to introduce a regulation banning oil and oil products from importing. Well, when the president of the assembly warned him that it was unconstitutional, he told him that it was no time for philosophizing, and he was a philosopher by vocality, or maybe he wasn't, maybe the Prime Minister was by vocality. What's waiting for us now - to tell us here how you've reviewed all the European laws, how you've had to invite experts from all over the world, to do what we've been doing, and you, just to double the fairy. And there's nothing new here, except taxes and taxes on what we haven't taxed so far, on what can't be taxed, on what there is no income, ma'am. The one who doesn't make money, you can't even take his taxes. So you gathered together while you were in the opposition to speak nicely, to attack the government, and that's understandable, and in that way, with the promise of grants, billions and billions of dollars, which you broke out of your sleeve, you won the election. What's happened since then, gentlemen? None of you have dared to organize production, none of you are capable of it. Is there one of you MPs here that is seriously involved in business and production, is there one of you that has accepted to run a company as a director? And if he accepted it, I'm sorry it wasn't those who flew guns into those companies. What's the production in these companies now? Why today's car factory says that for the first three months of this year, it delivered only 500 cars? Last year, for the first three months, 3,500. How many drugs does Galenika deliver to its customers? Where is this production from which taxes will settle? Tax on consumption, when the citizen goes to get the bread, and you charge him taxes? You say bread is tax-free, and it's not flour, it's not tap water. You've introduced water tax from the tap, so now you're boasting that you're a good authority, so you're now a transparent authority, transparent. And you need these with the banners in front of the National Assembly building. You are a transparent government, and over 10 billion dinars of funds go for special purposes. The former regime had a repression, funded a terrible repression, and you with 17% of the budgets finance the MUP, with two billion financing of Covic in southern Serbia. Well, with less money, we funded the war against the NATO Pact. How are you going to run this country? Yes, my dear gentlemen, when you were all for the NATO Pact, we were for Serbia. You were rooting for them. So when would you come to power if it wasn't for the NATO Pact? If you'd won and we were like this, what are we like, if you'd beat us if there hadn't been ten years of sanctions and there wasn't a war with the NATO Pact? That's nice, you'll laugh for a while, but if the budget for the first quarter was 18 billion, you'll have another 120 billion almost three quarters behind. From where? From where, gentlemen? Everything's nice in your stories, except there's no income and there's not a simple citizen, just a regular man. You will continue to distract us with affairs, arrests. Whoever's a criminal, go to jail, but you can't make political arrests. You're going to keep stalling over television, on the media, on the media that you haven't even admitted to remittent, which we've admitted, even though they were all against our authority. Now that you've been brought to power, the press doesn't matter anymore, now the press can tax itself. Now the press doesn't have the right to remittent, it has to sell everything. Now that you've come to power, you don't need any help anymore, and I'm telling you no matter how demagogue you sound from this pay phone and whenever you don't have the arguments, you say that the former government has ruined everything. In 2001, she didn't ruin the former government. In 2001, it destroys DOS and conflicts that are increasingly clear among us do not look forward to me. They're not looking forward to me. Because you gentlemen have violated Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It says that Vojvodina and Kosovo are territorial autonomy. Well, if that's what you consider autonomy, then the city of Belgrade is also a territorial autonomy. And you, Duke's original income. Why would she remain territorial autonomy? If it has all its incomes, if it has its own power and if it has horny DOS members who can't wait to make it a state. Unfortunately, it's too short for time to put a little mind in your brain, but it wasn't my goal tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1971	The last participant in today's session is MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1972	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, I, as Minister of Svezinov, can hold such a non-chalant hand in my pocket, but I will not, because it is not nice first, and the second only if it represents a gesture that this government is so good and will not put his hand in our pocket, but will hold his hand in his pocket. I have the opportunity and the honor to welcome our Prime Minister and this decimated government. Normally, they don't care anyway, they haven't even been to the sessions before, so they won't now. I'll try for five minutes, although I had a longer concept to say a few words at our prime minister's opening statement. The prime minister said there was the first element in saving and rationalising. That's good. So then he said some public enterprises have a monopoly, and the government introduces a monopoly on oil imports and oil derivatives. As for curbing the grey economy and that's good, but when these taxes and these taxes come to life from April 1st, inflation will be over 50% by the end of the year. Educational workers will receive a salary of 15% to 20% increased and will surely live much worse in December than now. The gray economy will not be halved. I'm sure she'll be doubled. Various economic experts from the federal government say -- there will be inflation 12%, and Minister Djelic says 30% by the end of the year, independent economists 50, and I only ask you to agree and tell us exactly how much it will be at the end of the year, so that citizens can know how much money they will have to pay taxes and contribute, that they know they are planning this year. You said payment classes are being introduced. That's good. I'm just asking you to introduce payment classes to the government, so that the ministers who have high school equipment receive a higher salary than those who don't have the same, and that you as a doctorate receive the most from all of them, that there's no difference there. You said the priorities of the government were school, health care, labour education. It's all very important, it's all very important. It takes a priority for me to be an economy, to revive the economy, to pay for education, health and labour education. And since you suggested that air taxes be introduced, water... (President: Please talk to me for a few more minutes.) )......................................................................................................... Only you have not introduced a tax on Mr. Ceda Jovanovic's nickname from the time of the student protests, I mean not the nickname of "marriage" (mary me), but the other one. If a tax was introduced to that nickname, it would not be stimulating to make a third child in Serbia, it would have nothing to pay for. You said the strikers decided whether to strike for a small salary or to strike for taxes. Now I'm going to tell you in a few sentences, which is why people are actually strikein' you. You all at DOS said that when you came to power, you'd bring in a few hundred billion. You said there'd be a tenth of a billion. That's enough. Come on, you said you'd bring a better Serbia. You said you had in that famous program of yours -- what DOS does on the first day, where DOS eats breakfast, where DOS lunch, what DOS does on the second day. You two months don't have a budget proposal. The minister arrests by house, today probably has a new list to go on politically.... to deal with political protests, arrests. [[jamour]] Mr. Chad should be a little more cultured, because I'm moving on to him right now. You are (President-Time)....... what a government like that and a budget. Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, head of the parliamentary group, said this government will not lie. Mr. Cheda lied in '96 and '97, when there were student protests, when he said he had nothing to do with politics, and we all know where he was and what he was doing. So if it's out of his mouth, it's a lot. A lot of things DOS promised, and he didn't keep it. The people of Serbia know it well. And one message to Mr. Djelic. You said that one-time aid, grossing 3.5 billion dinars, would be paid to citizens. I don't know by what criteria, but citizens need to know that the money they receive as a single aid is one thing, and the taxes they will pay are in the next period of permanent category. You have introduced a tax system that will burden the poorest part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-27-0.u1973	This is what we've done today's work. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please begin your work. We continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 137 MPs present today. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a 15-minute break. We don't have a quorum, and I won't allow the irresponsible behaviour of the MPs anymore, both those who aren't in the O.R. and those who are in the O.R., and they don't put their identification cards in. We'll continue at 10.45 hours.
