ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 239 MPs. I ask that the count determine the number of MPs present in the room. I find that the count found that there are 238 MPs in the hall, and we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend Mr Zoran Djindjic, candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and candidates, proposed by Mr Djindjic as prime minister for the government's composition, for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. [[buran applause]] Let me greet them on your behalf and mine. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, which was called upon by a group of 133 MPs of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, acting in accordance with Article 69(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. [[Buran applause.]] The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Second Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, the following Dn e n e v e d: 1. The election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on a set agenda. Before we begin our work, I propose to the MPs that we do not restrict the discussion and continue to work at today's session until the end of this one item of the agenda and decision on the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Do you agree that we continue to work until this agenda ends? Who's in, please raise your hand? Everyone. Do you mind? No, I don't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. I realize that we unanimously decided to hold the session until its end today. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - the election of the president, the Vice-President and the Members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia - you have received a proposal for a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which is in agreement with Article 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Milan Milutinovic. You have received the agreement of Mr Zoran Djindjic, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to accept the candidacy. In this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the conditions have been met that: - the candidate for Prime Minister shall present his programme to the National Assembly and propose a composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (Article 92(1)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia) - Let us open a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for Vice-Presidents and members of the Government (as referred to in Article 186. Rules of Procedure) - In the election of the Government, we establish the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and select the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister in the Government (as referred to in point 10 of Article 73). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 5. Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187. Rules of Procedure), as well as to swear by the members of the Government (Article 6). Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia). I ask Mr Zoran Djindjic, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to present his programme and proposal to the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in democratic countries, it is common for the government's programme to follow from the electoral programme of the political group that has gained citizens' trust. We want to establish democratic relations in Serbia and so much we believe that it is natural for that programme, with which the Democratic opposition of Serbia has won a two-thirds majority in previous elections, most of which are represented by this assembly, to represent the government's programme as well. We, together with this exposé, will share it with the MPs, and all that is written in that election program is our obligation to a mandate for which we have been entrusted. Of course, in accordance with the usual regulations, I'm going to expose a summary of this program as a brief exposé here today on our government's intentions in the coming period. All that I say today is also the obligation of our future democratic government. Before that, I would like to congratulate you on your election for MPs. I share your excitement and excitement to the public, which is rightly related to this assembly of parliament and this session today, because it is the first time in 60 years that Serbia has won a true democratic parliament and will get a true democratic government. That, of course, is our great pleasure, our great honor, but that is our great obligation. [[Buran applause.]] Because the situation we're finding, the state of reform we need to fix, is dramatically bad. According to all the relevant indicators, we are today in the last place in Europe. By the standard of living and purchasing power of our population, by the degree of employment of our citizens, by the state and age of our technology and transport infrastructure, by the responsibility of our companies to the abroad, by the banks, by the degree of our country's overall responsibility, by the degree of security of our homes, our houses, our borders, we are now far from what we want and what we imagine is a modern and efficient Serbian state. Even more than that, it's not even the one Serbia where we grew up in, the Serbia of our parents, where there were safe jobs, where they were bought, where they went on vacations and winters, where there were safe and schoolyards, and streets and borders. The task, which we are taking today as the legacy of these last ten years, is very difficult, the challenges are very high, but the chance of entering history as a generation that has returned one country to its right path. That chance is also very high. That's why we need the co-operation of the entire parliament, the whole of our country. Of course, there is a question of what happened in the meantime and how we have come to the last place on the European scale since a medium-developed European country. The right answer and the complete answer to that question can only give history. This is not where we need to run the analysis and discuss historical and political responsibilities. What I can say, surely by sharing your confidence, is that responsibility for what happened to us is not borne by citizens, responsibility is borne by authority. Because the citizens were ready and today they are ready to make this country successful, rich and happy. What was missing all these years was a clear political will to do so and a clear strategy and a road plan to do so. For the past 10 years, Serbia has been left at the mercy of brutal interest groups in the country itself and international interests outside our country. That time is over and today we can say that it's over. After October 5th, Serbia took its fate into its own hands. What we're doing today, the constitution of a democratic government, can in a symbolic sense be considered October 6th. Today, the government is given a mandate given to us by the people on the streets of Serbia, a mandate for change. The day we forget that mandate and think we've been given a mandate to rule, we lost that day. That loss would be much bigger than just losing power. That would be a waste of honor, that would be a loss of history. Because of that, every day of this government we will remember. We have been chosen to implement reforms, these reforms include several important priorities, several essential conditions that we need to meet, to restore the country to credibility, dignity, strength, and to restore our country to lost peace, satisfaction and happiness. Unfortunately, several of these priorities depend not only on us. We found them and we have to solve them. The first refers to the general political stability of the region and there are several elements. A democratic way of resolving Serbia-Montenegro's relations. Addressing the crisis with terrorism in southern Serbia, finding co-operation modes in the region, above all, with neighbours from the former Yugoslavia. Other conditions are stable democratic institutions in Serbia. We need to set up an independent judiciary, a modern state administration, an efficient system of public services and services, so that our citizens can realise their interests and that those who want to invest in our country are sure that these investments are safe. The third condition is good legislation, above all in the area of business. The fourth condition is quality traffic infrastructure, so that in our country it can travel quickly and safely, so that goods can be transported quickly. Finally, the fifth condition for the country's progress is a qualified workforce and quality management in our businesses and our economy. I present these conditions, which seem very difficult, with full awareness of their weight, but with full confidence that in this term of four years these conditions can and will be met. We should be a government that will leave a country in progress, in construction, in prosperity, at the end of its term of office. I just want a few brief notes on each of these points. Finally, the Democratic opposition to Serbia, which mandates the government and tasks, has clear answers on all these issues. We tell our colleagues in Montenegro, let us agree to choose the solution that carries the least of the risks. Let us address the priority issues of rebuilding, economics and returning our country to lost European integration. Let's not deal with ourselves, deal with the future. For this reason, we propose that you reform the already existing Yugoslav state to solve all open problems in the relationship between Serbia and Montenegro. That's our fair offer. I hope they accept. I think it is a greater honor to enter history as a generation that has brought the Balkans into the era of prosperity and peace, which has permanently resolved for our country the issue of its European membership, rather than entering history as politicians who have acquired sovereignty or international recognition for their country. There's time for that vanity. Now it's time to solve the great historical problems of the region as such. We can do it together. We are ready with our colleagues in Montenegro, and with all the other people in the Balkan countries who want it, to make one common concept of the future, a peaceful, prosperous future. We tell Albanians from Kosovo, circumstances have changed. All economic and human interests can be achieved today only in co-operation with Serbia and only through Serbia. Because we've become an engine of development. Serbia is becoming a Balkan locomotive again. And, up to a few months ago, any policy was possible to act against Serbia. Today, any policy can be implemented in the Balkans only in co-operation with Serbia. We are prepared for such cooperation, with moderate people, with people who have given up extremism and with people who are willing to talk. Who are willing to put human and family interests above the bloated national interests and national mythology. Our solutions to southern Serbia are well known. We want to offer moderate Albanians integration into Serbia's social and political system, and to fight with terrorism and extremism decisively, as every democratic state does. There's no compromise with terrorists. Therefore, with all those who want to live in our country, there is a compromise and we offer our hand and expect a positive answer. Of course, we are fully aware that the security and stability of the region depends, to the most extent, on relations in Serbia itself. And, our negotiating position at all of these points, our political position will be much stronger if the institutions of Serbia, if the state of Serbia, if the functioning of the Serbian authorities is such as to implore, to be honored to cooperate with us again, to be riskyly confronting us. It requires a whole series of reforms of our country, our society and our economy. We have two big problems ahead of us. One is the complete poverty of our citizens and the destruction of our economy. Another problem is that our society is polarized into a large poor minority and a small overrich majority. This polarization undermines the stability of our nation and our country. Institutions are not trusted because they have served in the past, as an instrument, in the hands of the privileged and wealthy. We shouldn't fool ourselves. People today question politics and politicians as such. People today don't trust institutions as such, not just the previous government, not just a certain group of people. It is our great obligation to restore the credibility of institutions, to make power a positive word again in Serbian and to make politicians a favorite profession again in Serbia. It won't be easy, but first it means clearing up the past, keeping accounts with what the previous government did, which is discredited by all the institutions in this country, and Parliament, and the judiciary, and the government, and the state media and everything that was at its disposal. Therefore, one of the first priorities of our government and Parliament as a whole is to settle accounts with the past, which first refers to those most serious crimes: killing people for political reasons. We have taken the obligation, and behind this obligation we stand firm, that in the most recent time possible, and when I say most recently, I mean days and weeks, not months, let us shed light on the murder of Slavko Curuvija, the murder of Ibari masteral, the abduction of Ivan Stambolic and other murders in our country, which are clearly political motives. Contractors and perpetrators of these murders must be found in the face of justice. We will form, at the next meeting, a parliamentary committee that will entertain any, unfortunately, likely involvement of some state authorities in serious crimes. This parliament will decide on how to reform these bodies, primarily the Service of State Security and Public Security, so that these things do not happen again in the future. Also, in the face of justice, our justice, our domestic justice, those who have committed serious crimes against humanity, civilians, killing children and women have tried to experience some false patriotism. They tarnished the name of the Serb people. We don't want to bear collective responsibility for it. If there is evidence of individual personal responsibility, all these cases will be found before our judiciary and will be sanctioned. In the past 10 years, however, an economic crime has been committed. They were taken away and taken away by millions of people. Someone will say that the word - crime - is too heavy in this context. I don't think so. Who knows how many chronic patients died because they couldn't buy drugs, and their hard-earned money was frozen in the so-called old foreign exchange savings. How many marriages have failed or not founded because of poverty and poverty, how many families have been destroyed, how unhappy children have been because of the difficult conditions of life for which citizens were not guilty, which have been caused by a criminal economic policy, which has been made so that the minority has everything, that most have nothing. We have to face that fact. When we talk about taking down accounts with the past, let's be prepared to face these powerful financial interest groups that are changing sides quickly today, which weren't high party officials, but that's why they were behind their backs and are ready to stand behind each one of us today. We can't let that happen. Our obligation to the robbed people is to tell the truth about who has benefited in these 10 years of sanctions, blockades and economic collapse. We will propose to Parliament, the topic is sensitive and moves on the edge of a known legal system and there are examples from the past that it has been done, we will very closely study the experiences of other countries and we will see how possible, moving within the framework of legislation and the legal system, but we will do some things to sanction financial and other affairs from the past. [[Applause]] We will propose to parliament several such measures and laws that should sanction financial and other abuses, as well as cases of use of sanctions and blockades for excessive wealth. We are considering a one-time tax on extra profits made under the conditions of sanctions and blockades. These conditions are, for example, obtaining credit from primary emissions during hyperinflation, buying foreign exchanges from the National Bank by course which was significantly lower than real, using a monopoly position, exempting from paying taxes and customs. Also, we are considering the possibility of taxing functional dwellings and villas, which were won on use, and then, after two or three months, bought by people who barely a year worked as ministers, and then suddenly found themselves in possession of a property worth 100, 200 or 300,000 marks. I think it's logical and just that most of that amount should be returned to the people. As proof that we're serious, we're going to end the possibility of buying functional housing. I hope that this assembly will unanimously vote the decision that never again in Serbia someone who is a year, two, three or four in office can't get an apartment owned, because people who work 30, 40 years hard, as doctors, as engineers, as farmers, as craftsmen, can't get it. This assembly and this government must share the fate of their people, above all in that financial work. We will not organize a witch hunt, but we will not allow the financial clan of the old regime to permanently keep the money robbed by the people. Of course, in parallel with that, we're going to fight a decisive fight against organized crime that works in our society, primarily in the area of human abduction, racketeering, drug trafficking, oil smuggling and cigarettes, car theft. Of course, our taking into account with crime from the past will be convincing and will only get general support if we show determination to introduce such control of our government through institutional mechanisms, such control that will prevent these things from happening again in the future. Indeed, we are determined that this very mandate of this assembly enters the history of the Serbian people through a whole package of laws that will install into the institutions of our society control mechanisms -- government control mechanisms, state administration control mechanisms, financial control mechanisms for all state agencies, public enterprises, in all domains where something is purchased and sold. Parliament will be involved through its commissions and independent credible institutions and institutes will be involved in this. We will take the experience of all the countries that have gone through the transition, the experiences of all the countries that are known in the world to fight corruption and abuse in the state administration, and we will implement all these experiences in our institutions. We want to lead a genuine clean-hand campaign and in two or three years Serbia becomes a country with the lowest corruption rate in this part of Europe. We are now among the most corrupt countries in the world. It's one big task, one big commitment and requires great determination, requires your support. Control begins with a public ban on the privileges of officials, and that means ministers. I said, no buying-ins, no doing private jobs while you're in the government, no membership in well-paid boards for government members, no receiving expensive gifts. Also, there is no intervention in courts, on television, police, financial police, businesses, customs. That minister who calls and intervenes - my son was arrested or detained because he was driving in a drunken state, please, I'm a minister or, my cousin is, etc., that minister is flying from the government. I guarantee you, the minister who calls the RTS and says, "Let go of this contribution or take off this contribution, he doesn't belong in the government." [[Applause]] I am now speaking to the public of our country. Any judge who receives such an invitation, any director who receives such an invitation, should report to the Serbian government, will find that issue on the agenda. If we find it true, we change that minister. At the next session, we will propose to parliament to amend the Law on the Privileges of Functions. You know that the law was passed two years ago and he was supposed to secure the officials of the Republic of Serbia for the rest of his life. No one can be provided for the rest of their lives as a functionary, political official of this country. In a member of the existing law, the police minister has been placed in charge of determining how many drivers, maids, cooks, members of security the former president of the Republic of Serbia needs to have. The Minister of Police cannot have the authority to grant privileges. These privileges will be clearly laid down by law, and they will be like any democratic state. The retired president of the country is retired. He can't enjoy the president's privileges for the rest of his life. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a process to privatise our economy. [[Applause]] It is therefore necessary to establish an entire set of independent control mechanisms, from parliamentary committees, to control large cases of privatisation, tenders, competitions, to expert teams, which will oversee financial operations and testify to their correctness. Our goal is transparent power, transparent power, glass power. Our goal is in this country, for every penny taken from the people, to know what's going on with it, from the moment it enters the budget, to the moment it reaches its end. Finance is the field where control is the most difficult, but also where control is the most important. We intend to include our entire society and all its institutions in the control of financial transactions, which will be carried out during privatisation. We will also propose to Parliament a new institution, known from Scandinavian countries. It's an institution of a people's lawyer, a so-called Ombudsman. It will be a strong institution, with credibility and reputation, where citizens will be able to object to the functioning of the public service, so the government, its services, its officials. If you vote on that institution, the Ombudsman will probably have the right to report to parliament once a month on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the administration and on all the complaints the citizens have made. They will have the right to launch initiatives in regular and special courts. It will be the place where citizens can turn to protect themselves from the will of the state, as the democratic state at this transitional stage may, through some of its officials, be able to overstep its powers. Citizens have the right to protection and we will encourage them to seek that protection. Most importantly, we will establish an independent judiciary, with the independent media we already have in our country, the independent judiciary will be the second strong pillar for control of power. Making an account with abuses of the old regime, establishing mechanisms to control this government, is one framework within which we can start with economic reforms. I am talking about processes that will take place at the same time, because economic reforms cannot wait. We need to go with them now. We have some ideas and plans for them, and in preparation for the election campaign programme, we have put forward ideas about how our economy should be reformed. After all, based mainly on these ideas, we have received great trust from the citizens. Of course, in the economy, we're facing the biggest deficits, and it's the hardest thing to run things off a dead end. It doesn't depend on will and determination. There's a question of material technology, there's a question of financial debts, there's a question of the hard legacy of the past. However, I would like to warn you of one thing, which is that, by dealing with day-to-day emergency issues, we do not lose sight, not to forget the economic plan of our society's development. What kind of Serbia do we really want? It's not Serbia's survival, it's not Serbia's solving daily problems, where there's enough food, electricity, drugs. It's a country that needs to rest on one strong idea, one concept. For us, it is a concept of Serbia as a country of strong, medium, civil class, stable financial, independent families, good education, good crafts, good professions, stable pension insurance, good education, free primary and secondary education, so quality that our children who attend those schools know as much as their peers in Europe or America. Finally, a land of safe, safe streets. So you can send your child to the disco without someone offering him drugs at the entrance to the disco. Land of the unsuspecting police, land of the swift judiciary. If you want to exercise your right by judicial means, not to wait 10 years, but to have a very limited and clear deadline within which the court must solve your problem. This is the Serbia we want, and we need to come to this Serbia with parallel, persistent, daily work on solving the problem, but also by persistent monitoring of this vision and making basic assumptions about this vision. There will be investments in our country, there is no doubt about it. The financial situation of our population will improve, there is no doubt about it. However, we need to ask the question of why investments are coming, which is the motive of the people who are going to invest money in our country. People invest money either where labor is very cheap or where labor is very high quality. People invest money or where risks are high and profits are high or where conditions are very stable, where profit is not high, but over the long term it's very significant. The question is whether we want to be a country of cheap labour, a kind of working suburb of Europe, with fast-earning opportunities and high-risk risks, or whether we want to be a country of highly qualified quality labour, a country where labour is not slightly paid. Of course, lower than in Central and Western Europe, but much more than in other Eastern European countries, but a country that attracts investment with its stability, its good laws and its institutions. Our commitment is different. Already today, when we are building a plan for our country's economic development, we say, we want to be a country of highly qualified labour, a country of good governance in enterprises, a country of reliable contracts, a country of good judiciary and good laws. It is a reform package that we propose as a government in this part of economic policy. Of course, on our way to that strategic goal, we also have to solve some difficult current problems, and one of the most difficult is unemployment and a low standard of living for our population. According to official results in Serbia today, around 2.2 million people are employed, around 820,000 are officially considered unemployed, which is about 27% of unemployment. The highest rate in Europe. However, the structure of employees is not great, as about 500,000 people, who are officially being held as employees, work in enterprises that are permanently non-equitable. Which, according to our current regulations, would have to go bankrupt. Which means 500,000 people can be considered probationary. That's an extra 15%, and that gives us over 40% of the unemployed. But out of the total number of paid employees, 400,000 are paid out of the budget. So, practically, those people who in manufacturing organisations, in organisations that create excess values, work, that's one third of those who are employed in Serbia. It is the biggest problem of this government and it is the biggest challenge of any government in one such country. The success of this government will be measured primarily on whether it will solve the unemployment problem in two ways. First, by restructured businesses, to restructure and labour, that these 2.2 million employees are gradually transformed into people with quality jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u139	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u140	To be transferred from those who are fictitious to those who are real. We need to solve the budget issue, so he can regularly pay 1.3 million pensions as much as he has, what is the government's obligation. Of course, it is not enough to restructure employment, it is necessary to create new jobs. This requires the restoration of technology and needs a new qualification structure of labour in our country. It takes big investments, but it's also the most just investment, it's investments in people, it's investments in human capital, it's a chance for young people in a country who have ambition, but it's a chance for all those who have the energy to do something in their life. Also, our biggest concern and second main test is the standard of living and the purchasing power of our population. According to official data, for the past few years, since the average family income today, one four-member family can pay barely 70% of the consumer basket. Our promise and our goal is that at the end of 2001, an average four-member family will be able to buy at least one entire consumer basket. What we expect are large external investments in agriculture, transport infrastructure and energy. I think at the end of next year we'll be one of the food exporters again, not the importer as we have been, and I think we can promise that next year there will be no power restrictions, because over the course of this year we're going to perform a general remont of our electricity industry, for the first time in 10 years. We will provide significant loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we are already in talks with the European Development Bank, with the European Community and bilateral talks with several European countries, which are ready to offer significant funds for lending to the private economy, means small and medium-sized enterprises. Our economic strategy is and must be drawn to large investments. After 10 years of collapse, Serbia is not sufficient to develop gradually. Serbia needs unusual development. A development that will overcome some self-linear projection of normal growth. We need it to deal with it, we need big investments in the base of the country's infrastructure, to restore technology, to start production, and to put this country on healthy feet. It takes a single package of laws, and I'm only going to list them in a few sentences, it's a package of actions of this government. First, we will establish a clear state of finance, property, obligations and rights in Serbia. To see who owes him what he owes, on what basis he owes and how these debts can be resolved. We're going to propose a law on the return of the seized property, which at least partially damages the people whose property was taken away for ideological reasons. We can't return that property, but we can give them some compensation for it, through participation, share participation in enterprises that may have been created by their companies, by giving them some adequate substitute for apartments and houses that have been taken from them or otherwise. It's our responsibility. We can't build a new right on an old injustice. We expect the federal government to pass the proper regulations and repeal the relevant rules of 1945. Also, we expect the federal government to give the Karadjordjevic family back their citizenship in 1945. Quite frankly, we expect this most famous Serbian family to return to its home in the White Court. [[Applause]] Secondly, we're going to implement the financial deblockation of the economy by turning each other's debts into co-ownership, reprogramming them or compensating them to each other. [[Applause]] Third, we will establish a clear ownership structure, implementing the Law on Privatisation and correcting existing privatisation laws. This will change the governance structure in our businesses. Today's directors, I said dictators, people who have no obligation, and all rights, destroy our economy, they can invest other people's money, and if they lose that money, it's not theirs. The owners will be responsible for their property and for their wrong investment decisions will be held accountable to their money, not to the people's money. Fourthly, we will complete legislation that allows for smooth business according to European Community standards. We want to adapt to the European Community and its legislation so that in 10 years, at the latest, we become a member of the European Community. Fifth, we'll establish a new tax policy. In this next budget, we will reduce incomes coming from taxes and contributions to personal incomes. We'll simplify the tax system, and we'll make up the missing money for the strict control of trade and oil derivatives, cigarettes, alcohol and other excise goods. In all, dear colleagues, this is the government of great intentions and great reforms. It's made up of two parts. One part makes some kind of team for strategies and priorities, a team that will oversee reforms, conceive them, communicate with the public, and these are the presidents of Serbia's Democratic Opposition Party in the Serbian government, mostly in the post of vice president. The other part of the government is made up of experts, people who have gained their knowledge primarily in the world of practice, and only partly in the world of theory. A few of them also have a successful career in the world's largest companies. They came to help their country, but also to sign up for a list of founders of democratic Serbia. Before I state their names, I would like to make a brief comment on the structure of the ministries. Some of the ministries are as you saw the day before yesterday, connected, and some are being recompensated, some are being transformed into secretaries and agencies. The Ministry of Information has been unnecessarily abolished because there is no censorship in democratic Serbia. Reports may be made by the Ministry of Justice. The one who meets the legal requirements for this will be reported. It does not take a minister to arbitration on what the media in Serbia needs to do. The Ministry of Family Care is logically attached to the Ministry of Social Policy, as the Serbian state should only interfere with those families with problems, particularly social problems. The state should not interfere with families that can solve their problems without a state. We are a liberal and democratic state. For our diaspora, we have several government institutions. It's not necessary for the ministry. Special reactions have sparked the future of environmental and sports in this government. Our government's intention is to establish the Ministry of Natural Resources Management over the next six months and to protect the environment. It is a serious ministry that will not only measure air pollution and the consequences of environmental disasters, but will plan the country's natural resources, such as water, such as eco-systems, such as forests. Unfortunately, and this is the situation, one part of the ministry's jurisdiction is today embedded in the responsibility of the agriculture ministry, for health care, for urbanism. In order to define the right jurisdiction of the new ministry, it takes some time. We plan to propose to the assembly the formation of the ministry in the next six months. As far as the Department of Sports is concerned, for top-notch and amateur sports, we have the Federal Ministry. The part relating to physical culture is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education, while commercial sport is in the jurisdiction of its clubs and its fans. I don't see why there's a Republic Sports Ministry. A lot of politicians were sitting on boards and in the solemn stands. I think that time has passed. Those who regret it buy tickets and watch games with other fans. [[Applause]] There have been a lot of objections to this structure of the ministries. I think the reduced government has too many ministries. I think the tendency should be to reduce the number of ministries in the future and try to relieve the government of the work that other organisations in our society can do, as is the case in other modern countries. Those who mourn the ministries should say who should pay for those ministries and where that money comes from, and if we need to reduce the number of ministries, which were 24, which should be abolished. We tried to indicate the direction of reform and state administration by restructured the ministries. In the future, in two or three years, our goal is to reform the state administration in Serbia, that the government has even fewer ministries, to set up a system of agencies that will then carry out certain tasks, which will partly be independent of some Scandinavian countries that have good experience in the area. Now I come to a biography, basic data, members of the government, first Deputy Prime Minister: Zarko Korac, born in 1947 in Belgrade, graduated, mastered and doctored at the Department of Psychology of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, where he works as a professor today. He was an MP in the Serbian Parliament from 1993 to 1997. Nebojsa Covic, born in 1958 in Belgrade, graduated from the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade, mastered, doctored in 2000 at the same university. Since 1990, he has been the director-general of the FMP, in 1994 he was elected mayor of Belgrade. He is also the founder of the Democratic Alternative. The father of two children is also married. Dusan Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister, born in 1948 in Valjevo, graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. He was a federal MP and chairman of the Committee on Credit and Monetary Affairs of the Greater Republic in the Federal Assembly from 1992 to 1996. He's one of the founders of New Democracy. Jozef Kasa, born in 1945 in Subotica, graduated from the Faculty of Economics, President SO So So Saturday since 1989, has been a republican MP since 1992. Currently, he is an MP for the Federal Assembly's Council and the president of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians since 1995. Momcilo Perišić, colonel general, was born in 1944 in Kostunica near Gornji Milanovac, finished the Military Academy of the Land Army, artillery, Command and Staff Academy of National Defence, and graduated in psychology. The head of the Yugoslav Army's general staff is married from 1993 to 1998 and the father of two children. Aleksandar Pradic, born 1958 in Milanovac. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade since 1996, a committee member at SO Gornja Milanovac, and is currently in office as head of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac. He is one of the founders and vice presidents of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Vuk Obradovic, born in 1947 in the village of Konžalj in Toplica, finished the Military Academy of the Land Army, the High Military and Political School of Command and Staff School of Operations as the best in his generation. The doctor is a military political scientist. He was the youngest general of JNA, a National MP in the Federal Assembly, founder and president of Social Democracy. The father of two children is also married. Ministers -- Bozidar Djelic, finance and economy minister, was born in 1965 in Belgrade. In 1987, he graduated from the leading French business school and the Institute of Political Sciences in Paris, 1987, mastered economics at the School of Social Sciences, in 1991 he mastered finance, strategy, macroeconomic and international relations at the Harvard school in Cambridge. From 1993 to October 2000, he was at Cambridge. Currently, he's head of an expert group in the federal government, and the father of two children is also married. Goran Novakovic, Minister of Energy and Mining, was born in 1959 in Zagreb. He graduated from the Faculty of Civil Engineering in Belgrade. He mastered management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He led a team of crude oil and oil derivatives. He ran an oil and oil trade company in the Caspian region, Africa and Russia. He was the boss of the Moscow office in Enron. Leaded by gas, electricity, oil, investments by former Soviet Union companies. Vojislav Milovanovic, minister of religion, born in 1947 in Apatin, graduated and mastered in 1974, doctored at Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering in 1978. He's a professor at the Faculty of Civil Engineering. Since 1985 he has been working at the temple of St. Sava in Belgrade as protonemara. In the transitional republican government, he was deputy building minister. Goran Pitic, minister of economic relations with abroad, was born in 1961, graduated, mastered and doctored in 1993 at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. Got a degree in economic sciences from the University of Toronto Faculty of Economics. Worked as a professor at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade since 1986. He is the director of the Economic Research Sector at the Institute of Economics in Belgrade. Since 2000, he has been head of the Department for Postgraduate Course on Transition and Reconstruction in the Alternative Academy Network. Aleksandar Vlahovic, minister for economic restructuring and privatisation. He was born in 1963 in Belgrade, graduated in Belgrade in 1987, and was appointed director-general of the "Dilloyt-Tush" Yugoslavia in 2000, including Republika Srpska. He is a member of the Association of American appraisers, the International Association of Accountants, the Association of Yugoslav Economists and the Association of Yugoslav appraisals, and the father of two children. Marija Raseta - Vukosavljevic, Minister of Transport and Telecommunications, born in 1962, graduated from the Faculty of Civil Engineering in Belgrade, employed at the CIP Transport Institute since 1990 as a leading designer at the Institute of Construction. She's married, mother of two. Gašo Knezevic, minister of education, was born in 1953 in Belgrade. He graduated, mastered and doctored in 1987 at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Currently employed at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, calling an extraordinary professor. At the same time, he is an MP for the Council of Citizens of the Federal Parliament. He is a member of the Serbian Civil Union presidency, married, father of two children. Gordana Matkovic, Minister for Social and Combat Affairs. She was born in 1960 in Belgrade. She graduated and mastered the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade and graduated in 1992 at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade. Since 1984, she has been employed at the Belgrade Economic Institute, and in 1996 she becomes director of the Centre for International Projects. Since 1995 he has been teaching at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. Dragan Domazet, Minister of Science and Technology. He was born in 1947 in Nis, where he graduated from the Technical Faculty, in the direction of manufacturing machinery. He mastered and doctored at the Faculty of Engineering in Nis, where he was elected as a regular professor at the Department of Production Engineering. For the last six years, he's been teaching undergraduate studies at the Faculty of Engineering at Singapore University of Technology. Dragoslav Šumarac, minister of construction, born in 1955 in Raška, graduated in 1979, mastered in 1983 and doctored in 1987 at the University of Illinois in Chicago. Since 1998 he's been a regular professor at the Faculty of Civil Engineering. Married, father of three children. Obren Joksimovic, Minister of Health, was born in 1952 in the village of Kočelje, Bosnia and Herzegovina. He graduated from the Faculty of Medicine in Belgrade in 1979, specialized in general surgery in 1988, and in 1997 he obtained the call of the primarius. For seven years, he was chief of surgery at the Health Center - Fireman. He is a member of the Political Council of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Married, father of four children. Branislav Lecic, Minister of Culture, born 1955 in Sapac, graduated from the Faculty of Drama Arts in Belgrade in 1978. It is one of the founders of the most significant alternative theatre groups, which have significantly influenced the country's theatre life. He has been a member of the Yugoslav Drama Theatre since 1980. He played in many theatre plays, movies, TV dramas and shows. Married, father of two children. Vladan Batic, minister of justice, born in 1949 in Obrenovac, graduated in 1972, PhD in 1981 at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. He was an MP in two calls to the National Assembly of Serbia. He is also the founder of the Democratic Party of Serbia. He is president of the DOS Parliamentary Group in the Federal Assembly. He's married, father of three children. Dragan Milovanovic, Minister of Labour and Employment, was born in 1955 in Belgrade, according to the metalman's profession and before completing the study of engineering. Since 1975, IMT has been employed. Since 1996, it has been the president of the Association of Free and Independent Unions. Married, father of three children. Dragan Vesenov, Minister of Agriculture, born in 1950. A regular professor of political sciences in Belgrade and honorary professor of St. Anton's College of London University. A political activist since 1980. Since 1996 he has been president of the Vojvodina Coalition. He is the author of many scientific books, articles and studies. The father of two children. Slobodan Milosavljevic, minister of trade, tourism and services, was born in 1965 in Belgrade. He graduated in 1990 and mastered the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade in 1996. He finishes his doctoral dissertation at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. Since 1997, the Director of the Centre for Conukturnal Research and Macro-economic Analysis has carried out the tasks of the Institute for Market Research. He's married, the father of a child. That, dear fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, is the program of our government and these are the people who need to implement it. The least we can promise in this difficult situation is that it will be the government of speed, efficiency and democratic transparency. We will react to every problem immediately, we will tell the truth and propose a solution, and most importantly, we will not lie and we will not steal. We commit ourselves here before you. We don't have a magic wand, though. [[Applause]] What we have, it's us, our knowledge and our energy, it's the people in Serbia and its energy. With the support of this parliament, with the support of the citizens of Serbia, I am sure we will achieve everything we intend and what I have outlined in this programme. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u141	I thank Mr. Djindjic. We heard a programme and a proposal from the government, which Mr Djindjic has presented as a candidate for Prime Minister. I'm asking the Service to share a program and a proposal of the government's composition. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've been presented with a program and a proposal of the government's composition. In accordance with the powers laid down in Article 97, the Commission shall adopt delegated Rules of Procedure, I'm setting up a 30-minute session break for the necessary consultations, after which a search will be opened. I was asked to inform that a meeting of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia's parliamentary group will be held in a small hall. [[Glass: pause to be an hour.]] [[After a break.]] We can keep working. I am opening a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a candidate programme for Prime Minister and candidates for Vice Presidents and members of the Government. Let me remind you that we have not shortened the duration of the discussion and that those in the Rules of Procedure last 10 minutes. First they have the words of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, as they applied, Mr. Vukic, then Mr. Ivkovic, Mr. Pelevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, listening to the Prime Minister's exposés, at one point we all seem to have thought, as David Strbac, what can happen to us all of our kind, among other things, and that we can't breathe, such a list of good wishes, without a real and real programme, without a solution, without how the country will get out of crisis, without concrete questions, which we have to solve, except for the arrest, we haven't even heard here. We haven't even heard the fact that in Serbia a small number of factories, since 5 October, even fewer factories work, works. I think it's 25 factories that have stopped production since October 5th. How will they start production, how will Serbian citizens survive, how will they be able to live better, as promised? In his exposé, the prime minister mixed the federal and republican authorities' powers, as if he had not read our constitutions as our country's highest legal act. As one of the first topics he spoke about was the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro and what we are going to offer Montenegro, what is our proposal for the survival of the common state and how we want to resolve it. I am afraid that by doing so, Djindzic pointed out the fact that it will go towards creating an alliance of states or towards a complete secession of Montenegro from the SR of Yugoslavia. The topic has absolutely nothing to do with the republican parliament and the republican government. Maybe it'll have something to do with it, not right now. But if they do, then we can disband both the federal government and the federal president immediately to fire all federal state authorities and federal government services. Furthermore, Mr Djindjic says the DOS election programme is the basis of a political, economic and social programme of the new government of the Republic of Serbia. The question is, whose program is this, what is the DOS program? Are those who have published in the pre-election campaign, in which, apart from the principled solutions, there is nothing concrete to be said, yet you are not sure what the DOS programme is, because when we talk about individual representatives of the proposed Government of the Republic of Serbia, you will be convinced that their programming definitions are completely different or opposite. Mr Djindjic says he wants co-operation between Serbia and Kosovo to be created. Well, I guess the DOS programme and everything they said before this election said that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, not that Kosovo is co-operating with Serbia. It's something that's quite surprising to us, we almost can't understand that kind of political attitude. DOS promised it, as did all other political organisations. You don't think the citizens of Serbia forgot so quickly what their promises were. They talk about problems in southern Serbia, otherwise it's only about inherited problems, about everything that was bad before. I wonder if Mr Djindjic in those ten years' account and the Government of Democratic - Socialist, when his party was in power in 1992 or in an account, has about 40 years' power over all of his government members, who were in power, above all with the Socialist Party of Serbia, but also in the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia and so on. I guess they count, too, when they're talking about those they inherited from such a bad and difficult condition. But not only did they not inherit from them, but neither did he inherit the difficult situation in southern Serbia. The DOS government is responsible for this because the territory is occupied in November of last year. The DOS promised that immediately after the election, even some from Group 17 that it would be 25 December, that the issue of Serbia's sovereignty in that part of our territory would be resolved and that there would be no problems, that democratic Serbia would resolve it in agreement with the so-called International Community, that everything would go in Serbian interest and at the heart of those who oppose the new democratic Serbia. As we can see, none of it. Democratic Serbia is proven and shown by threats, arrests. A new democratic Serbia is proven by machines, which it pointed at some people yesterday, I think from the Socialist Party of Serbia, I saw it on state television. In the past, when someone pulls out a pen, so all the newspapers have been publishing it, something I don't see has stopped to explain what units are pointing at the guns. It's not automatic rifles, I've never seen those guns that they pointed at the people yesterday. They did it right away, but they better hand over some more checkpoints to Albanians in southern Serbia. It's something that's inadmissible, and it's something that anyone else but DOS can't be responsible for, that's what he's done, that's what he let himself do, and he's dealing with it. And now Carl Bilt is threatening us with a peace conference, some new Dayton, as if it were about to be a Serbian future or a solution to our national problems. There's something I'm pretty sure that won't happen. That's what the practice so far has shown after October 5th. We have had the most recent elections in Serbia since 1990, so here we go. We had the dirtiest campaign. [[Laughter in O.R.]] ... I can confirm this because I participated almost in all the campaigns and more often as an opposition MP, only once as someone who belonged to the government. I've been to Milosevic's courts a lot more often, I don't know why, than they dreamed they could say and say sentences against him. It's only enough that, Mr. President, we would call upon the jurisdiction of anything else. [[Applause]] As for what I started talking about, it's about the democracy that's been talked about all the time. This democracy has brought us the dirtiest campaign against political opponents in the December-month elections. Never such a mean, dirty and perfidious campaign against political opponents in Serbia has been led. And no one ever led her like that. It may be the Socialists in 1993, but since it was relatively long ago, it seems to me that this one of yours overcame in December of the month (some MPs are getting out of place). I would ask you, Mr. President, to give a warning to the unseemly MPs who are getting it. As for us, and when we lose, we immediately admit that we lose. And when we win, we say we win. But even when we're winning, we don't take guns, we don't knock down and we don't burn anything, we go to a press conference and we announce the results. That's the difference between you and us. [[Applause]] I'm afraid of this constant mention of democracy. All democracy has turned to us: this one will be arrested today, the day after tomorrow, this one in four days, this one in ten days, this one in 50 days. Let everyone be arrested, you can arrest everyone in this House, what the opposition will do to you. That's how Tito and Kim Il Sung ruled. They, in turn, kept all the media under their control and kept the entire public under their control, as you do today. And it's no problem. We survived it. At least don't scare us with that. You may, perhaps, be a socialist here. We were almost all in jail. I wasn't in jail, but, you know, I kind of feel sad - all of them were, and I wouldn't be so bad at it. As far as your democracy is concerned, it seems to be getting pretty funny to everyone. We used to talk, and I'm gonna do it again. You know, it's like a little kid when he draws an elephant or a horse, so to tell his parents it's an elephant or a horse, he has to write that it's an elephant or a horse. That's how you talk about democracy all the time, about democratic transparency. Now I'm going to tell you what this democracy looks like and what it looks like is that no one calls the media. That's why I needed this folder to bring it in, where it says, "This hasn't happened since 1980. "Maybe since 1979, because Tito was very sick so he couldn't operate directly from the hospital. I'll read you the DOS statement, it says, Tanjug forwarded this (January 13th - Belgrade), that's after October 5th, that's recent, I think. He says, "The DOS protested sharply today... "Be careful on time. You said you didn't limit the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u144	Let's get the Rules of Procedure, so I don't explain it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u145	It was said: "The DOS strongly protested the way it organized and criteria in the selection of guests in yesterday's show "Compromis" - Studio B TV, noting that the guest of the show was only telling lies and thus in the harshest way hurt the principle of openness of the media". To keep from wasting my time, that man is suspended and no longer working. It's your democracy. As for calls and non-inviteds, we received a letter from the director of Radio Television of Serbia before the election silence, in which he offered us to participate in the split terms and to announce political views of radicals, as well as all other political parties, but we should have paid a certain amount of money. As many parties as it would have paid, it would have shared that two-hour term. Turns out only the Serbian Radical Party has paid off. However, the Serbian Radical Party could not get the term, as DOS intervened. The term was taken away, although paid, was given to Nebojsa Covic only to muddle the Serbian Radical Party and no one else. It's your democracy, it's your democratic transparency. As for the minister, I just have a few things to say. In the castle hall. For being so nervous, for being so afraid of you, for being so worried about a few sentences that I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u146	I ask the MP to bring an end to the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u147	As for these experts, I won't comment on the vice presidents of the government. These are the people who participated in the elections and they are representatives of their parties and they took their place, as they expected. As far as experts are concerned, and I'm afraid many of them are not experts. What's the expert, Mr. Djindjic, Mr. Gašo Knezevic? To kick people out of college? I studied Law School in Belgrade and Gašo Knezevic was known as one of the most unprofessional extraordinary professors. I'll read you a sentence of what his colleagues, the regular professors of the Law School in Belgrade, said about him. They said the following thing about Mr. Gashi Knezevic: "From everything that has been exposed, Dr. Gašo Knezevic, no teacher's work in calling the doctor and calling the extraordinary professor, proved a series of shortcomings that should be taken into account in the election and re-election of the regular professor." That's what Professor Dr Predrag Sulejic and Prof. Bozidar Pavicevic said. Is that an expert? So much for the expert government. Is there a single bodyguard's wife in this government? What did this government deserve Branislav Lecic to appear? By his knowledge, by calling primitive people and ignorant people who think differently from him?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u148	Mr. Wolfie, you've been over 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u149	Here, Mr. President, I'm done. I would only like to point out to Prime Minister Djindjic one fact, where he spoke again today, as in his time of good relations between the Democratic Party and the Socialist Party in 1994, when the Revaluation Act was passed. I'll remind you of that. It was an anti-constitutional law. This again speaks of several laws with a retroactive fact. I will remind him that this is an essential violation of the principle of legal certainty, of the principle of legal certainty, and it seems to me to be the Constitution, except in certain cases when it requires public interest. But it has to be interpreted very, very closely. I'd still say, if you'll let me... I reckon, when you can't take it anymore, you'll bring in the bogeys and come in with the guns and kill us all and solve all the problems. [[in Hall of Fire]] That's your democratic transparency, I think, in any case, warrants you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u150	I've got to warn you a second time. It's been four minutes and take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u151	So, I'd say another line about honesty. How much we've been listening to lately. Well, you've got so many rich people, this whole side can dream of collecting as much as one or two of you have. And, that constant repetition, you know the folk one, "who about what... "the ones about honesty. I ask you to take care of your affairs first, of what you did and how you did, and then give others a lesson. It would be good for you to act much more responsible, to think about how the state will function in the next period, how factories will be able to do, what they will be able to do, and not to turn journalists into judges, ministers to public prosecutors, everything else in the investigative bodies, and that's the whole state, and that's the whole state policy. The Serbian Radical Party will not support the government. We will act as an opposition political party, and we are confident that Serbia's citizens will soon be convinced of the truthfulness of Serbian radicals' claims.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u152	After this discussion, which lasted five minutes longer than what we had committed to the Rules of Procedure, I would ask the MPs not to put me as president in an awkward position to warn them and to come to a situation to take away their word, not to provoke the MPs by extending the duration of the discussion. I ask you to help me through this session in line with the Rules of Procedure, with understandable deviations, even with the president of the parliamentary groups. I will be forced to intervene much faster in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He has the word Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the candidates for members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, allow me one small replica. In these 60 years, 650,000 apartments were built and bought. Huge results have been made for 60 years in this country, and this should be respected, especially in that part of which is extremely important, it is noted in the mandater's report, which is staff policy. I repeat, many would stay to keep sheep, because they would not have the means to pay five average salaries for accommodations in a student hotel, and perhaps, who knows how much pay for universities, as the new minister of education predicts. To return to the mandater's report and members of the government, candidates for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Three strategic areas have been completely neglected, and it is clear and understandable from the point of view of the mandate, but from our point of view, from the point of view of the Socialist Party of Serbia, we do not accept that, and I want to underline it here. First, the harsh reality of October 5, 2000. Secondly, intentional avoidance of quality results by a very good base left by the previous government to this government, on which the government can and can rely. I'll let you know the contents of that. Third, avoiding candidates for Prime Minister on very important issues, which have also identified many developments in this country and will define these developments in the future. It is clear that advocating an effective and modern state is essentially the definition of thinking people and good hosts. It has always been the definition of the Socialist Party of Serbia, with another component, which is the tendency to create a human society, with the position of solidarity, where the richer municipalities would care for the poorer, where the richer would care for the poorer. This has always been the case in the Socialist Party of Serbia. But let's look at what's left out in the report and what needs to be pointed out. The harsh reality of October 5, 2000. First, the agreement signed for the transitional government of the Republic of Serbia is only respected in the part in which the Socialist Party of Serbia was held accountable. Point four, which was talking about preventing a media lynch, has not been stopped at all. The board of directors and the formation of the Serbian Radio Television, according to the system -- I wish it was not done. Point 5, which is much worse, many crisis headquarters across Serbia have made 127 major corporations, who have been doing it very successfully by October 5th, stand. That's a fact you should know. A fact, which, unfortunately, was verified by a good part by an unstatual or illegal president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, among other things. It should be said that Viskoza employs 50% of the workers in Loznica, and now none of them work. It should be said that from 1,500 to 2,000 vehicles produced the Kragujeva flag. It only produced two since October 5th. Not to mention the IMT, the Dragon, the Trayl, the Bora and the Bora Mines and the Bora Base, which is totally standing. This is just the result of bringing in politically similar people, instead of experts who led the process of work. What's the score? Economic and social problems are growing, the fall of standards is exceptional, and how it should be taken into account. He's right about the previous debate here at the pay phone, it must have been the most difficult pre-election campaign for all parties outside the DOS in the fall of 2000. An extremely difficult campaign, run under a media link, under the threat of people, is known that even some members of the transitional government, who are out of authority for many other things, have allowed themselves to arrest people through newspapers. To talk about it is extremely important, because everyone in this hall, especially candidates for members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, should remember well that there were just a little more than 50% of Serbian citizens in the elections, namely that almost 50% of Serbian citizens did not go to the polls. This parliament is a picture and an opportunity, so just a little more than 50% of Serbia's citizens' opinions. We have finally received power with one unseen service towards, above all, abroad, who succeeds in bringing all sins upon his people. I believe, even if a meteorite fell to the ground, to point a finger at their people and to the legitimately elected leadership of that people. What's past the legacy, which is still forgotten here, to say the least, and I have a responsibility to point it out. In many areas of life, legislation and high - quality legislation live. Even in the area of environmental protection, probably one of the most qualitative laws, made according to European standards and laws. Unfortunately, we were unable to explain in vain how important it was for this country, especially now that the Swedish, the Spanish, the Belgians started counting their dead and saying, wrongly, "Balkan syndrome". That, gentlemen and ladies, is NATO syndrome. Wherever NATO appeared, this torment appeared, the destruction of the human environment. The law is extremely good and it is a pity that the Ministry Act does not leave the place of Minister for Environmental Protection. It's the same about youth and sports, it's the same about the Law on Local Self-Government. As Mr Batic, otherwise a lawyer, will now take care of sewers and fecal collectors, because under the Law on Community Works, the obligation of local self-government is that. As far as the minstar and vice president are concerned, we need to tell the truth. This is a government that, in its composition, in the history of Serbia and its governments, will have the largest number of vice-presidents. If anyone reads the powers of the Vice-President and the power of the minister, then it will be clear to him that the powers of the minister are exceptional for the area for which he is responsible, that he is the one with all rights and all responsibility. Unfortunately, the commitment was to increase the number of vice-presidents, and to abolish ministers who as promoters and how they can think of youth and sports. The sport is not about whether someone from the government of Serbia or from the political establishment will be on the board of directors of a club and will pay for the ticket. It is, in sports, that today we all have a duty to offer youth the right environment for extracurricular activities, to offer youth amateurism in sport, in culture, that youth has the right to proper psychophysical development. It's the obligation of us elders. What did we do? We have abolished the Ministry of Family Care, we have abolished the Ministry of Youth and Sports. A successful renewal was also forgotten in the government's prime minister's referendum. You, my gentlemen ministers, wouldn't have anywhere to go to work if that building wasn't renovated and reconstructed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Three missiles destroyed that building, two floors of that building destroyed, and it was restored. Not to talk about many bridges, about infrastructure, about not talking about something you have to and should continue, because you will be chosen by the will of the majority in parliament. We won't vote for you. It's building apartments for young people. It is your obligation and that is what will give the biggest doppinos to human policy which is and how important. A fully defined strategy is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. At the Ministry of Science and Technology, the heir, my colleague Domazette, will find three thousand business programs for small and medium-sized enterprises. They won't find a draft law on small and medium-sized enterprises, because I did it and I will propose it here in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia. But I'm sure it's a real commitment. The first money to come into this country, there won't be tens, hundreds or two hundred million dollars, there'll be 100,000, 500 thousand, million dollars, two million dollars, and we've made an extraordinary run between scientific and research institutions, colleges and businesses, and three thousand special programs. The result of domestic knowledge is on paper. Here, gentlemen, you have them, with the estimated, all-needed power consumption, who... the analysis and possibility of placing on the domestic and foreign market, with the significance of the substitution of imports and the possibility of placing on export markets. As far as natural resources are concerned, I really apologize for talking about the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, because I was talking about it here in January 1996. We have seen all the natural resources of the Republic of Serbia. You have them in the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, and you have locations, all needed for all natural resources and harmonised infrastructure development by 2010, to avoid damaging or possessing lakes or some other facilities, reserves that are located, these natural resources. So, the Department of Natural Resources Management and Environmental Protection could currently live today and benefit from the concession law, which we also brought, that investment agency of importance to the country where all the requirements would be sublimed, possibly, by the concession system and taking care of it. I'm entitled to two more times ten minutes, I'm sorry if I'm impatient, I'm ending up fast, at least this part. As far as value is concerned, the enormous value of social property exists and is left to you. Nothing has been sold out, as it has been done in many countries. And, finally, ladies and gentlemen, when I return to my post, I have the right to return. A key feature of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been preserved, it was the SPS that wrote and defended both nationalists, Serbian, Muslim and others, and according to the decree, this is the state of its citizens. I reserve the right to report as soon as I get to my turn. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u154	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u155	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, by winning the two-thirds majority in the previous elections, the DOS has gained its constitutional right to have its mandate and therefore, at a meeting in the presidency of the Serbian Unity Party, we have decided to support Mr. Djindjic as the prime minister of the new government of Serbia, as recommended by the President of the Republic. The Serbian Unity Party has three principled objections to the exposés and the government's composition. The first remark is that we expected this to be in most of the government's experts. I hope that's what the voters who voted for DOS expected. I assume the mandater had obligations to his colleagues from other parties, DOS, and was forced to establish seven DOS vice-presidents and the government, mostly people who are presidents or vice-presidents of Mr Djindjic's coalition partners. Although it can't be said that there are no experts in the government, nor are people who are expert in doing these jobs, let's say, an example of Vladan Batic, who is also an expert in being Prime Minister, an example of Dusan Mihajlovic, who has worked very efficiently and able in the police before, say Mr Perisic, a colonel, who will be in charge as vice president of national security. Anyway, I think that the expectations of all of us were different and that the government was mostly expert. It will already be a problem for the head of the cabinet, Mr Djindjic, and I hope that the government will work successfully in the future. The second principled remark of the Serbian Unity Party is that Mr Djindjic's cabinet will not be Minister for Youth and Sports. By abolishing the Youth and Sports Ministry, I'm afraid we've abolished youth care and sports. I can't agree with that part of Mr. Djindjic's exposé, where he said amateur sports and top sports would be the concern of the federal sports minister. In principle, that's how it is. If Federal Minister Vojislav Andric tells us, a few days ago, in a television show that he won so much money for 2001 for amateur and top-notch sports from the federal budget, just as much as to buy each athlete a glass or bottle, I'm not sure, acidic water, then it's going down with what we heard in this exhibition. So, between the federal government, which obviously doesn't care about sports and youth and the Republic government, which abolishes this ministry, athletes and youth have found themselves and I'm afraid that we will end youth care and sports care. I hope that Mr Djindjic will not allow himself to enter the history of sports as one of those who took the first step towards destroying amateur and top-notch sports in Yugoslavia. Of course, I'm not talking about professional sports, because it works by other principles, but I'm talking about that sport that's spent the glory of this country all these years behind us. We were the only ones, the real ambassadors of our country, and I'm telling me, because I'm a sports worker and I'm a member of the presidency of the Yugoslav Olympic Committee, and I'm obliged to defend from this place sports workers and our athletes, who were indeed the best ambassadors of Yugoslavia. I hope that Mr Djindjic will find a way to re-establish the Ministry of Youth and Sports in a few months, because I am quite sure that in that period he himself will realize that a mistake has been made, by abolishing the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Our third principled remark refers to point 2, where it is said (read text. ) I hope that this is a lapus and that it was meant to be said that they will be able to achieve their interests in co-operation with the authorities in Serbia, rather than with Serbia, because it is now a different state that needs to be with another state of Serbia to have its relations. I sincerely hope, Mr. Djindjic, this is probably about the lapus. Secondly, I would ask the prime minister and all members of the government to say, in future, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, that Kosovo and Metohija be said, not just Kosovo. That is why we forget Metohija, which is only in favour of Albanians, who have since 1974 been reaching Kosovo's term, because it wants to erase the term Metohija, because the word Metoh means church property, which means it has never been a Serbian country, that there were no Serbian monasteries, Serbian churches and Serbian cemeterys. We hope that the new government will work on the following priorities, and above all to address the issue of southern Serbia. We're pushing for a peaceful and diplomatic solution. To set the correct deadlines for this resolution. If that is not resolved, then we will support this part of the exposé, where it is said to be resolved by other means, as all democratic countries do. Our time is surely and unwittingly running out, and time is now working for Albanian terrorists, not for us from Serbia. Let's not just let the problem of Kosovo and Metohija repeat itself, that this problem is internationalised, because I fear South Serbia will lose, as we have temporarily lost both Kosovo and Metohija. I hope that everything will be done to implement Resolution 1244 and that, above all, it will be possible to return to the refugees Serbs, Muslims, Gorans and all other non-Albanians who had to flee to Serbia or Montenegro after the arrival of NATO forces and UNMIK. Furthermore, I propose that the next cabinet session be held in Pristina or at least in Kosovo, Mitrovica, in the northern part, where Serbs live. I hope that it will be very easy to get UNMIK and KFOR's consent for such a thing, which would encourage Serbs who stayed in Kosovo and Metohija, or encourage Serbs who are waiting to return to Kosovo and Metohija, thus proving to be extreme Albanians and that part of the International Community that supports them, that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia and part of Yugoslavia. I hope it'll be one of the priorities of the new government. Also, I hope that the new government's priority will be everything to make it seem like an increase in the standard of living for Serbian citizens, because it is really hard to live, much, much harder than it was before. In the hope that these will be priorities that the future government, which we are likely to choose today, the Serbian Unity Party has made a decision to support this government, to vote for this government, to wish you good luck in your work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group, answered again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u157	For lawmakers who have not read the Rules of Procedure, the head of the parliamentary group has the right to speak three times in 10 minutes. The exposure is a little longer, so I'd better do it like this, take advantage of my right. So, I pointed out that by nature, the prime minister for purely political reasons has avoided three important strategic areas. It has been a cruel reality since 5 October 2000, then two, avoiding all those quality solutions and valuable goods that this country has had and which, in essence, previously the government of the Republic of Serbia has made its own solutions and its work, and three, has avoided determining a very important issue for this people both in the past and in the future. It is first and foremost, and therefore I ask Mr. Prime Minister, to give us here his opinion on the international community's relationship with us, and the consequences of the international community's relationship with us, to answer us about the Markals as a reason for imposing sanctions and destroying this country. Of course he spoke of poverty and the very difficult situation of the state, but this country is very difficult precisely because this country has been harassed by the embargo for eight years. Not only could oil not be introduced, but many repromaterials could not be exported, or exported with large duties to Macedonians, Bulgarians, and those who did so were heroes, and this country had much, much of the goods that they wanted us to have. Two, what is the international community's relationship when we cannot mention the arrival of Carla Del Ponte these days, the argument of bringing charges against the country's political and military leadership on 24 May, on the 60th day of the bestial aggression, the illegal war on this people here. The determination of the future Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia against the established indictments must be made here. Where are these satellite images of mass graves in Kosovo and Metohija now? Casphorus has been in Kosovo and Metohija for a year and a half, and thus does not prevent the killing and exorcising of Serbs and the rest of the non-Albanian population. Did he find those tombs? They're nowhere to be found. Where's Mr. William Walker for the village of Racak? Finally, two years later, the Finnish pathologists spoke. I guess their conscience bit them so much, they admitted there was no massacre in Račka. I remind all of you, who have forgotten, that this was precisely two important reasons for the bombing of this country and the prosecution of political and military leadership, which led the country's defence. With regard to this, the Hague tribunal must be made clear. But also the relation to the international justice court in The Hague, where this country has been charged with war damage. Lately, since 5 October, you can't read in a free, uncontrolled, independent but essentially very party, much worse than the regime, the media has no information on what's going on with this country's war damage lawsuit. This is especially important today when we learn that genetically our offspring will have problems in these areas because 30 tons of atomic waste, not uranium, has been extradited to the territory of this country. Surely it's important to identify with this and this government towards the possible construction of an atomic power plant in these areas. If that's what I'm talking about, to answer immediately when it comes to water, the spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia absolutely reflects all the water potentials, both ground and surface waters, and thank God we have enough of them. They're not exactly evenly distributed, they must be used a little more tubes, but we have them, to export as much as we want. As for what happened during NATO aggression and the eventual arrival of Mr. Solana, the question arises for the candidate for justice minister - what about the process that was led in our country against those who destroyed this country? The main search is over. Where's the verdict? Who stopped the verdict against Solana and Madeline Albright, an old American administration who, unfortunately, thought very differently from this new U.S. administration and who was actually fighting a personal war against this nation and this country. What about the verdict? Is Solana allowed to come to this country or not? The extent of the rights of local self-government, gentlemen, is not a bit naive. The regionalisation of Serbia is envisaged, a macro-regionalisation under the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. It is foreseen in a strategic sense that a rational infrastructure is planned, that health and education are rationally planned, that hundreds of the same secondary schools are not built, hundreds of the same factories. But it is not intended to land at the local level, gentlemen, or the police, or put into the jurisdiction of the municipality of the education and health care process, because it will turn out that a rich municipality, which could have reached a little more resources, keeps everything to itself. You'll make 180 republics in one republic if those forecasts for government members were realized these days. Therefore, local self-government was partly decommissioned, and in this there were motives primarily because of Kosovo and Metohija and the state of Shiptarian secessionism down there. It is necessary to restore certain powers, because they see much better than they see from one place in the Republic, but they do not need to make 180 states. While I am at Kosovo and Metohija, the key question is - the definition of candidates for the prime minister and the government themselves according to the 1998-1999 events. Whether it was a genocide over the Shiptars or it was a struggle to preserve their country, a struggle to protect citizens of the state who were threatened by Agim Ceku and all others, who were emigrated by secret service decisions to create a circus after the Kritski meeting. Finally, what about Vojvodina, what about Sandzak? What about Serbia as a whole? We cannot say - negotiations between Serbia and Montenegro. We must say, within the Federation, talks on the rights and competences of the republic and the Federation. We cannot say - negotiations between Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. It's just a conversation within a republic about the work of her territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u158	Thank you very much. The first reported MP is Mr. Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u159	Dear Members of the Parliament, the prime minister said in his statement that today is October 6th. To analyze the things he suggested today is January 25th, and we need to look back at the things that happened from October 5th to today. He said the former regime's authorities had begun decommissioning. Unfortunately, in these three months, the Dossier authorities have also begun to demonstrate our country. Since 5 October in an election campaign, you said the situation in Montenegro is because of the regime in Serbia and because of the 1992 constitution. Since 5 October, however, the regime has been out of power in Serbia, and the situation is even worse. Simply, the separatistism of Milo Djukanovic was given wings. You said the 1992 Constitution was brought by two then ruling parties. What do we have now? We have a violation of the federal constitution. No respect for territorial belongings. And, we are having discussions on a platform on the arrangement of Montenegro, not between the ruling parties and the Federal Assembly, but between three people. It is Mr. Prime Minister Djindjic, Mr. President Kostunica and Mr. Djukanovic. I would ask the prime minister to define himself according to the issue of Montenegro in his decision. Also, we have a question of the autonomy of the Vojvodina. You signed the pre-election promise, i.e. 16 parties, agreement on autonomy. Unfortunately, there are adopted documents, in the circuit assembly, overcame autonomy, and now it's about the republic. No more autonomists, they're Republicans now. I ask the Prime Minister to be defined on this issue, that we as Parliament see whether this agreement is signed, and whether it will be a document of this government, and I ask him to introduce us Members of Parliament to that document. A similar issue, as far as the state is concerned, and with the south of Serbia, with the Raška area, with Kosovo and Metohija. I'd also ask him to define himself on these things. A dozen new laws are being passed here. If laws are adopted and proposed in the way it was done with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act, it is better not to propose. Proposing the law is a very difficult thing and responsible. It's just that you must know the matter you're talking about. Unfortunately, we in Serbia are not considered a successful minister unless he has proposed at least one law. It would be good if before you start writing laws to read about these laws. Since there are many lawyers and lawyers in this congregation, we know that there are laws in Western countries that are over a hundred years old, which have survived many systems. As for economic moves, many economic moves have been introduced since 5 October that are not well thought out. What's this about? It simply wants to collapse and replace something old without making something new and having no visions of it new. At this stage, we must not uncritically copy the Western system at all costs and in all areas, because it's going to hit our heads. Here's an example. It's a matter of electricity. That was a little bit of a talk. What's a fact -- the fact is that in October, November and December and 15-16 hours, there was no electricity. What was the excuse - the justification was for the SPS sabotaging, for the SPS to export electricity to some secret channels, for not being remounted, for being calculated. Now there's electricity. In such a short time, have these facilities been repaired or is there something else? Gentlemen, very professional people have been replaced in key places, people who knew how to manage the crisis. So, when production falls to a minimum, there is no immediate havarian involvement, but simply, it is handled at that time. It is a similar situation, and I would ask the prime minister to define, whether responsibility will be determined for why there was no electricity in Serbia during this period and what will be done to keep the electricity in the next period, especially since we now have announcements from our party that there are battles for bureaucratic positions in TE Obrenovac, that no good things are being done, that you have an announcement that a strike will be announced in Lazarec, because no promises have been made. .. You don't understand the words) that someone else does, it's your responsibility now. It's a similar situation with factory shifts and other organizations. You have restored the political resemblance to performing very professional functions. It happened to us in the '70s, when a play by very successful directors, who made our systems, was declared techno-managers, technocrats, and replaced, and set up party apparatus, which is now, unfortunately, happening. Since we have an agreement and an imperative that all these situations, when people are replaced in an illegal manner, will be re-checked, so I would ask this apparatus to be defined for whether this agreement will be respected and whether it will cease once again with the crisis headquarters, which is causing us all great damage. I think we need to talk about these things without strong words, without hot emotions and cold heads. On the issues of our country's arrangements, we have to look at things with a lot of angles. We simply have to look at things from the historical perspective and from the historical past, not just 10 and 50 years. Our roots go far deeper and some of our problems are repeated day and day. We need to look at these problems and from the perspective of the historical future, respecting the greatest strategic interests of our people. Also, I'd like to say a few things and propose to the Prime Minister on economic matters, as I come from the Pyrot. First of all, I support the view that internal debts must be reprogrammed, that there is no shock therapy on business organisations and on the people, because we have come out of the sanctions period. As you ask for 100 days, an economy should be given for at least 200-300 days, so when you bring economic policy measures, you will find a way to consolidate your business systems. We're simply out of the international blockade, but we're going to enter an internal blockade that will make it difficult for us to perform on the foreign market. I would also suggest that it continue to repay debts to the state through child support bonds. That was 31.12. The state must have returned about four billion dinars. I would suggest that taxes and contributions continue to return, as well as a certain part of public income in this way, because it has greatly contributed to making it easier to do so simply so that the economy begins to deprive itself. I would also suggest that you push the federal government to introduce an export stimulation. Our only chance is to produce in our country, in our economy, to get a recovery and help, and to export it. In this situation where the dinar is stable only according to the German mark and is 30 dinars, and is unstable according to prices, by interest and everything else, we exporters are in an unfavourable position. So I would suggest that stimulation be introduced, and in addition to that, exporting this year was a billion and seven hundred dollars and imports of four billion and two hundred. So now the import lobbys are in a much better situation than the exporters, and we've defined ourselves as developing a business market. I would also suggest that it be proposed that the governor of the National Bank be reduced to an escontant rate, which is now 2% a month and makes high-interest business banks, that it be reduced to 0.5% to 0.8% a month. As for privatisation, the denationalisation that you propose will raise some new issues that the economy will enter into and I'm sure that detachment of relations will take three or four years. I would suggest that this law remain in force now, that it should only be armed to be six months or nine months, and then what is not privatized to the state property. Because don't make companies that were independent entities go back to the state, because the state is a very bad economic host and we're going to get into some relationships that we won't be able to get out of, and it's right that those who built those factories, who decided to get the most of it, so let them do what they want. On these economic issues it is necessary, in addition to the Government, to make one consensus, if we really want it to work, that, besides the Government, we should include the Chamber of Commerce and the Union in all these talks, so that we all really have the will to do something that is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u160	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly address the threat of constitutional and legal order in our country and the co-operation of DOS authorities with The Hague tribunal. Our country has no obligation to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. DOS authorities and its political party leaders have been competing lately -- who will rather make a statement and accept co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Namely, the Constitution of the SRJ, in Article 66, prohibits the extradition of citizens of Yugoslavia to a foreign state or to a foreign organisation. Some politicians and excellent lawyers, even college professors, say - can be extradited because it is not a foreign state. It is a foreign state, and it is every state that has signed and voted in the Security Council for the establishment of a resolution and a decision on the establishment of the UN tribunal. Any state that has signed and voted in favour of this document is exactly the state that signed such a contract on one hand. However, SRJ and Serbia have absolutely no obligations. If there are any obligations, I would ask the prime minister and the politicians who claim to do so, let them show the basis of the Constitution and show the "Official List" and decide that it has ratified the SRJ. No, therefore, please have the Constitution of Serbia, you have the Constitution of Yugoslavia. If you want to break it, you can do it, but in that case you will violate both the Constitution of Serbia and the Constitution of the SRJ, as well as the Code of Criminal Procedure. Almost all government candidates and members of the government, since the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have made numerous statements on these circumstances and have agreed that co-operation should be made. And one of them says, "You have to cooperate," and the other one says, "You don't have to cooperate." But recently, they haven't been able to reconcile their views and now there are expected to be hunting for Serb heads. It is absolutely forbidden by both the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure. What awaits us if the current DOS government accepts co-operation with The Hague tribunal? Here's what they're asking of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia: unlimited freedom and exit, without retaining or obstructing its staff, property, goods, equipment and means of transport. Second, unlimited freedom of movement throughout the country of staff, property, equipment and means of transport. Access to all documentation material of importance for the efficient work of the Bureau for work and for connection. Direct contact with central and local authorities, government agencies, including armed forces, intergovernmentals and NGOs, private institutions and individuals. The right to interrogate victims and witnesses, to collect evidence and all useful information, and to investigate on the spot. Right of access to all prisons, detention centres and investigative sites in co-ordination with the SR Yugoslavia Ministry of Justice. The right to make arrangements with your own means of transporting your collected data and all information. Exception from any direct taxation and import-export duties, rational taxis and charges. The right to highlight flags in all cities and vehicles in SR Yugoslavia. There are still numerous demands, which the UN tribunal is looking for, that it may follow the SR Yugoslavia. Since there is a candidate for the future justice minister, Karli del Ponte, who came to visit, is the following questions: - Would Mrs Carla del Ponte as a Swiss judge her citizens under the same rules that the Hague tribunal judges Serbs? - Does the Swiss court make its own rules of procedure and change them whenever they feel like it? Since 1994, they have brought about 12 amendments and additions to the process and are prescribing it to themselves. What judgment in the world today prescribes for itself how should we judge? - Furthermore, is there an integral and integral part of the court in Switzerland? Does a Swiss prosecutor press charges? - Is there a secret testimony against someone in Switzerland allowed in Switzerland and does the accused in Switzerland have the right to see this witness, who is charged with the most serious crimes? - Can the police in Switzerland surround someone's house, as was the case with Sima Slicker and kill him? Some of our politicians and professors of the Law Faculty interpret the law upside down, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I draw attention to those who think it is possible, that they will face serious violations of provisions and norms, which are still in force in our country. Serbs, whose names in most Serbs are causing respect, such as Ratko Mladic, Karadzic and others, their arrest and implementation in The Hague would surely sadden a large part of our people. That is why these Serbian knights and others, who have defended our country from its enemies, must not deliver to a politicised institution such as the UN tribunal. What would happen if, God forbid, far away, Carla del Ponte filed charges against General Perisic (Seselj, from the place: What about him? He was General JNA. What if there was a secret indictment against him? Of course, God forbid, there is no legal basis, he defended his people and defended his country. As I said, the UN tribunal did not establish the UN, but was founded by the Security Council. The Serbian Radical Party does not recognise The Hague tribunal, as neither does America. Only in 1988 in Rome did America not sign an International Treaty on the Right International Criminal Court. That's what Clinton did before he left the political scene for formal reasons. However, how war criminals, who have committed huge war crimes and genocide against the Serbian people in SR Yugoslavia, and especially in Serbia and Kosovo, cannot be tried by any citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Our criminal law prescribes crimes - genocide and war crimes. Why now would we be cavaliers to let our citizens and Serbs go to The Hague to be tortured and killed by our blood enemies? Who has the right to do that? Under the current constitution and the law, it has absolutely no one. This co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which takes place at the republic's level, is against the law. Only the SR Yugoslavia, or federal authorities, can directly, at least in this area, have competences and discuss it. But not to accept co-operation, which would be harmful to the Serbian people and to the harm of the SR Yugoslavia and to Serbia. I point out the Brovine case especially as one bad example. She was convicted as a health minister in the government of Bukoshi, in a terrorist illegal government and sentenced to 12 years in prison. As the then federal justice minister, I refused to be pardoned and released from all criminal responsibilities, as asked of me by the president of the SR Yugoslavia, Mr Kostunica. Besides that, in a spectacular way she got out of prison in the Mercedes of the Ministry and federal organs and sent to television cameras as a folk hero. I ask the question to the federal government, and to the leaders of the republican authorities: what would it be about them, who forbade them, and why did they not mention any Serb, why did they not mention 1,200 victims, who were kidnapped, 12- and 15-year-old girls, who the Cypriots raped in camps and public houses? Where are those Serbs? Are they by camps in northern Albania? Why don't any politicians mention that Serb? Why are Serbian citizens in prisons below 12 years of age on that basis, when Brovina was released? On what grounds? It's not clear. When it comes to an independent judiciary, many DOS politicians and leaders threaten to replace them immediately in the package. Please, where can civil servants, such as ministers, threaten in advance to clean up prosecutors, replace judges, that people will find themselves on the street? It's not possible and you can't do that. You can only be the one who committed the crime and violated it as a judge and prosecutor of the law. You can judge them, you can't judge others. As far as the police are concerned, I don't understand the interim minister of police. What's that for? Do 18 DOS parties need three months to change the interior minister? It's impossible, it's gonna be a damage to the state, to the police. If it goes on like that, I'm afraid some of the ministers, who comes in line, will paint the militia, put on earrings, just to do it as a change because you asked for change and because it's about democracy. The Mandator said the other day in a conversation with Filip Vujanovic: What is it worth to you, Mr Vujanovic, to go to the West to those international institutions, to find yourself in a society with an empty plate? So you, too, Mr. Gindzic, have torn up the tails countless times, going to the West, bending down, bending your spine. That's why you can't talk about the six and a half billion dollars you promised this country. It's absolutely impossible. When it comes to the rule of law, let me just draw attention. The other day, I was surprised when on TV that Maki from Valjev said, "I've got my 70 men ready, and I've armed them, I've entered the Assembly, I've set the Assembly on fire, I've set the TV on fire." Then, he says, he walks into one police station, and one other, I can't tell you. The question arises, what about thousands and thousands of armed robbery that day and thousands and thousands of bullets and combat equipment. Now, I see, the federal police minister is after Margit Savin because he didn't return one gun. Who threatens the safety of this country? Is Margit Saviovic because he didn't return one of the gun in charge in time, where he knows who he's with? In the end, she doesn't need that gun, she can defend herself out of the prange and whatever she wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u162	I ask the MPs to be correct in their presentations. Indeed, we cannot allow such an exaggeration of time provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Be nice. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u163	Mr. President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure twice on the work of the National Assembly. First of all, you're this morning, and I was reading a stenogram and I made sure that I was right, invited us not to limit the time of discussion. You suggested that we not limit the time of discussion and we accepted it. So, even though article 92 says, "That the time for discussion is limited for 10 minutes", there is a decree, "unless otherwise decided by the National Assembly at the beginning of the debate". We decided this morning not to limit the time of discussion. I was surprised when you warned the prime minister and said time. I thought it was the relapses of your conflict from the time they were the yellow company, and you were the plums. And we have really discussed here with DOS representatives -- what would he do if he were to warn the prime minister, and we MPs are not limited to the time for discussion? The second violation of the Rules of Procedure, in my opinion even more drastically, is that you persistently refuse to give a word to the head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Seselj. You are aware that it is the order of presentation for this speaker: Proposer, representative of the board, MP who has issued an opinion at the committee session and representatives of the parliamentary groups. There are no board opinions here, no MPs who have issued an opinion. It is obvious that word should be given over the line to the heads of the parliamentary groups and twice more over the line when they report during the debate. You keep waving your hand and pointing at Alexander Vukic. You cannot recognize Alexander Vukic as a representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group in this assembly because you were not informed in writing at the beginning of this session. Article 42. The Rules of Procedure say, "The delegation group has a president, and if it wants to be represented, it is required to notify the President of the Assembly in writing." Please correct your mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u164	As regards the first point of view, we decided that we would not limit the time of discussion at the very beginning, because it is quite clear, with the first view of Article 92, that the decision refers to the possibility of a reduction rather than an extension. At the beginning of the follow-up when we came to the search, that's exactly what we were saying. At that time, there was no objection on your part or on the part of any other MP. As for the second remark, I am prepared to accept that I violated the Rules of Procedure in the part in which I believed in the word of Mr. Vukic, as the official and MP of the Serbian Radical Party, because at the beginning of this session, you were not there, orally informing me that because of your absence that he would speak first as representative of the parliamentary group. If you say I shouldn't have taken my word for Mr. Vukic, I'll accept that I broke the Rules of Procedure and gave my word to the president of the parliamentary group, and I'll ignore your application that was filed here under regular number 10. Are you satisfied with the explanations? Yeah. But we must realize that Mr. Wolfie has deceived us. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u165	You, Mr. President, should stick to the letters of the Rules of Procedure, and if you have something private to clarify with Alexander Vukic, you can do it whenever you want, but don't bring the MP group into it. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard the exposés of Prime Minister Djindjic, who began to conclude today that the first democratic government of Serbia is forming. All governments so far have said to themselves that they are democratic, that they are the most democratic, and that there were those who said to themselves that they were the first democratic ones, and that in 1945, when the communists formed it, they said the first real democratic government was. But the works speak, not the words in politics, serious politics. We will judge whether the government is democratic. We can't say about the particular government, because it's only being elected today, but if it's "after morning known", we can make good assumptions that we're already getting away with it. Because if a new government is elected today, it's not a new government. The Dosovna government has existed since October 5th, by the Bulldozer of the Revolution. We've been getting to know the nature of that government ever since. But within that cabinet, there are also those who have already compromised themselves as ministers in the previous government, so we know what they will be like in the new government. In the exhibition of Prime Minister Djindjic, there is a list of beautiful desires and promises that are empty and have no real basis. There are none of those six billion dollars that were convinced by the people of Serbia, ahead of the September month elections, that they were about to arrive and as soon as they took over the government that money would come. There's no money. There's something a little bit on the spoon, insignificant, extremely unsatisfactory. Obviously, we will have to rely on our own forces in the coming period. But already some leaders, including Kostunica, say we will rely on our own forces, but under much worse circumstances. Today in Serbia, life is much harder than it was in September of the month. Approximately 60% of the population's purchasing power has fallen. In this period, the brand has devalued. If you compare what you can buy today for 100 marks with what you could buy in September, you will see how many stamps have fallen. Real purchasing power has fallen. We don't have any factories, almost none. There's no production. We have recorded a huge drop in industrial production since October 5th. There's not a single recipe in the mandater's exposé how to overcome it. There are oaths of justice and justice. We don't even have to suspect that you'll want justice and justice. You have to prove it now, not by arresting those who are no longer there to defend, because you don't love them, because you hate them, because they're like this or they're like that. The easiest thing to do is to arrest someone who's helpless, but prove your justice to us, by first arresting the bastards of your ranks. Arrest those who burned down the Federal Assembly building and robbed it, robbed it thoroughly. Arrest those who destroyed the state television building. Arrest those who are forced, with automatic rifles, raided the National Bank, business banks, public enterprises, private enterprises, federal customs administration, etc. First you arrest the bastards in your ranks, then you arrest them for free. Arrest and Gaš Knezevic, as professor of Law School, in agreement with lawyer Nikola Zafirov, illegally, privately, organized seminars for his students, charged from eye to eye, from 150 to 300 marks, and students passed exams because they received questions in advance to answer. I have 11 signed statements from former students who were so forced to enforce international private law. Don't talk to us about some other criminals, and today you're choosing one of those criminals as a minister, especially what he did to you in advance and as a DOS, giving you some kind of nebulous solution, making decisions against the law, etc. I brought one today by accident. Here is the decision by Gaše Knezevic, who is signed both as a professor and as a minister, where he says it is necessary to carry out the law of the planned nostrification of diplomas and for all persons who have acquired those diplomas in Republika Srpska. This has never been done in Serbia before. So tell us, Mr. Djindjic, is this your government's policy? We have a special relationship agreement with Republika Srpska. Never before, under the contract, has it occurred to anyone not to recognise diplomas from Serbian Sarajevo or Banja Luka, that they have to be verified according to a special procedure. Let us know about this. You're the government that claims to be the first democratic. I trust you on this condition, because I also see a lot of prominent political sizes from the former communist regime here, so it's also the government of continuity. They have already learned this democracy well, and that is why this whole system will certainly be democratic. But your government is already starting to encounter something that is indecisive to her. In your exposé, you escaped to plead. How do you think you decentralised Serbia and whether Serbia will even exist after that decentralisation. There's a concept of decentralisation, where Nenad Canak Vojvodina is trying to turn into a Republic. There's another concept of decentralisation, led by Kasa. He would have the community of seven northern municipalities, where the Hungarians are the majority population, looking for a three-stage autonomy, I received the latest act, where he seeks a census of Hungarian nationalities, so that they would exist as some specially-separated electoral body. This means that only Hungary can vote for the Hungarian party, and it cannot vote for someone else, and Serbia is defined as a state of citizens. Now that this contradiction can be resolved, that would be very interesting to us. How is it possible to cut the police by two-thirds? There are international contracts, above all, within the framework of the OSCE, signed by our country and under which we were obliged to reduce the military. In some things, our police have played a role, as adequate as it can be specifically discussed, there may have been various critical objections, but in some variant she has played a part in compensation for the lack of enough army, especially when it comes to the possibilities of internal riots. We need police in the form of combat units to fight the Cypriot terrorists in Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo. That's where our police act in the form of combat units. It's not the classic police. She's more military there than police, she's basically military, she's called police, and she's formally law enforcement. Without that, we can't. You should know that hundreds of Muslim fundamentalists, even some say several thousand, are trained at the training center at the Cave. Their goal is to do the same thing that the Cypriot terrorists in southern Serbia have done somewhere near Ribaric, at the administrative border between Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, near Novi Pazar. There are several hundred villages, of which only two or three Serbian. There is also this clause of the Kumanovo Agreement, about the security zone and there is no possible presence of our army. They plan to take up territory there, take up villages, shoot down, and then from the West come interventions - calmly, negotiations, ceasefire, cease hostilities etc. It is a real danger that threatens Serbia. We haven't seen from your exposé that you're aware of that danger at all. It would be good for you to address the National Assembly again at the end of the session and make a statement after several of these key remarks. How do you think Serbia can function if you cut the police by two-thirds? Furthermore, many DOS leaders go public with proposals on some major decentralisation of Serbia. I agree that it has gone too far in the direction of centralisation and that local self-government has lost some of the powers they need if we want the job to be better done and the citizens to be more satisfied, to make their interests easier realised. But you can't let the credentials go the other way right now. We had one strict centralization, and now we need to get decentralisation to anarchy. It's better to look for a medium solution. If you leave the police service to the municipalities, Serbia will refeudalise itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u166	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u167	Please, Mr. President, I was here when we all voted to speak without restrictions today. You cannot subsequently interpret something that cannot be interpreted in your own way. Don't warn me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u168	Mr. Nikolic accepted my explanation. We didn't even make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u169	I don't know what Mr. Nikolic has accepted, but I tell you how it is in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u170	Mr. Nikolic, who objected to a business violation, accepted my explanation. That's what we discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u171	Mr. President, you'll lose less time if you let me finish my logical exposure, what I imagined to say, than that some things that aren't significant are being pursued here. You're aware that you're wrong. Because then why should we vote for unlimited discussion? So far, the session has shown that no one, literally no one, intended to obstruct the work, that everyone was going out and talking exclusively about what was on the agenda. There's no need to enter any extra temperatures, nerves, etc. We are having a normal debate on the exposé of the prime minister and his proposed composition of the cabinet. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u172	Of course, it's not my intention. It's my duty to warn you. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u173	Then let me finish what I thought, Mr. President. I certainly have the right to report back twice, according to the Rules of Procedure. Keep that in mind. Just laugh. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you have a congregation majority that is enough to elect a government. There is no question of your right to choose the government you want. But don't challenge the opposition's right to criticise the government. Because the people here sent us here exclusively to criticise the government, and nothing else. Our only role here is to criticise the government. It's the purpose of our existence. He who does not criticise the government and acts as an opposition, is not an opposition in the right sense of words, or one who votes for power, and is from the opposition party. Those two never go together. What is, in the end, very significant here, there are many pressures of DOS parties on courts, on the judicial system. First, we need to separate the fact that the judiciary is really in a very difficult situation. It's materially difficult, there's corruption, there's crime in courts, etc. In addition, the situation has become more difficult now because some DOS parties are doing the same thing that some leftist parties have done before -- pressing the courts, insisting on verdicts, instrumentalising the judiciary for political purposes. We've got a whole series of cases. It's one, too, of our first exams. We'll see how you pass it in a few days. As for the economic and social situation, it cannot be repaired without one rational and thriftful state administration. You must not drop under the government's control of key infrastructure systems, neither the Elektroprivreda, nor the oil industry, for a long time. One of the DOS leaders announced two - three days ago - a review committee "Telecoma", "Mobtela", "Delta Banka" will be formed immediately, etc. Wait, people, you in this government configuration have ministers who participated in those contracts. I know, as vice president of the government, we've had a lot of problems with the Mobtel. Fully unsettled documentation, anti-legal contracts, etc. It took six months for the Department of Traffic to get it all in order. But we've been putting things in order, with the intention of bringing things into line with the law, not destroying the subject. Now, is "Mobtel", "Telecom" and "Delta Bank"? You may have reason to destroy the Delta Bank. Then why don't they destroy the Cepter Bank? "Cepter Bank" financed a pre-election DOS campaign, and Philip Ceptter, personally, and "Delta" may not. Let's not conclude that that's why you're ending one bank, "Deltu" you're ending, and "Cepter" isn't. I have no reason to defend Delta Bank, but I may have met with this Miskovic, who is at the head of it once in my life. She doesn't interest me, she doesn't ever sponsor us or help us or anything. I want a principled relationship. The language of justice does not know personal hatred and impatience. Where personal hatred, impatience, vengeful mood, ceases right, justice ceases. Don't yell in advance, you need to arrest that too. If there's any concrete evidence of a crime, you'll be arrested immediately, but don't let DOS leaders go public with the claim, and that's what needs to be arrested, and then we'll see why we're going to judge him. Then where's the legal order? Only the communists worked in 1944 and 1945. Don't let one of them get arrested, then after a month two let him go in the absence of evidence. Then you'll get the best of yourself. I'm here for anyone who's wronged about the law to answer, but everyone based on concrete evidence, not politics. No one can be tried for what is not criminal law prescribed as a felony. Give it a criminal act, and you didn't like someone's politics. There is a punishment for wrong politics, but it is also the punishment of the people in the elections, not the punishment of the one whose policy, in your opinion, is wrong, you will arrest. That's ridiculous. Don't let us get into any more evil than the one we've been through in the last few months or the one we've been going through for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u174	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. After him, MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic question that is being asked here is, will this government be successful and can it be successful at all? The question needs to be answered, and it can be analyzed by what this government is like, and probably a world recordman in the number of parties that make it up by the number of vice presidents it has. It by nature of things and by the logic of people cannot be successful, because it will be burdened by its own work and will be burdened with continuous conflicts between each other and finding compromises and wasting time to come up with some solutions. But this government, in fact, this government has been here since 6 October. To date, she was more of an opposition and did everything to be an opposition, represented herself as an opposition, so in this country we had an opposition to power, and the government was in opposition. I hope that now, after this day, she will take responsibility for herself for all her actions and inactions during this and previous period. What would make me unusually happy, if a miracle were to occur, and finally in that area health care professionals and health care would experience one of their rebirths, that dignity would happen to return to health workers, material status would improve and improve treatment. It's something that may be of vital interest to this country. However, the prime minister in his exposé did not even mention health care. Speaking of health care, there is a very interesting situation, that so far, burdened with great problems, and already at the beginning is burdened by the disagreement of health workers with the choice of health minister, Mr. Joksimović. What happened when Dr Nada Kostic, who served as minister in the transitional government, suddenly became unsuitable to continue to be minister in this new government, which is also likely to be transitional? What happened, what was her sin so she could no longer do a job that she could do for a few months? What is the quality of Dr Joksimovic, because he was also present at the DSS when the Prime Minister of the Transient Government, the health minister, was elected. Probably, the answer to that question was given by Mr. Zoran Shami, vice president of the DSS, who said several days ago at a press conference, believe it or not, next, that healthcare professionals should not worry about it at all, soon the health minister will no longer be a doctor. Whether he'll be a baker or an alvar or a trafficker, and that kind of people will run a health care center, who will lead, if he doesn't run a doctor. In fact, there is the sin of Mrs. Nada Kostic, who said and declared it, very correctly stood up for the interest of health care professionals, that she would depolitise health, that she would go into serious health reforms. That's what she resented and said politicians don't understand all the health problems, that they need to stay away from health care and health care management. It was, in fact, her fundamental sin, that she suddenly became absolutely unsuitable. Therefore, the problem of politicisation continues in health care. We've had July's party health so far, and now we're going to have, instead of July's healthcare, the DSS, and health care is one thing, but it's the essence and the story, it's going to stay exactly the same. What the prime minister also didn't say, and he was talking about the DOS programme, which is a little incomprehensible, that there is one program of 18 programs, made in some extra, which is absolutely impossible, that of these 18 programmes, they are fundamentally different in many points. Therefore, we cannot talk about a joint programme that should be the ideology of 18 different parties. He has just avoided saying this because he did not say a V of Vojvodina, a part of Serbia, territorially, and a part of Serbia in which very serious problems are expected in the perspective. And not to talk about the community of 7 municipalities, which Mr. Kasa has launched and which will soon come into play, because for the award of destabilizing Serbia and what even territorially his national minority is trying to single out and provide for them maximum and greater rights, rather than guaranteeing the right for national minorities, he is being rewarded, so he becomes Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. It was not important at all about this and the hints, that the absolute autonomy of the Vojvodina would be sought and that the Vojvodina Assembly, now mostly seen by the DOS, but also by the autonomous parties and the separatist parties from Vojvodina, would insist on it. Although it is important to answer precisely those key issues, which form and which ensure Serbia's stability. If we do not have answers to these questions, and if in the future we have complete destabilisation, then this government will no longer rule complete Serbia, but only some narrow or horrible part of it. Finally, when it comes to personal solutions, Mr Djindjic probably forgot or did not hear or read Mr. Nenada Canka, one of the leading people in DOS, who presented himself as very talented for finance. Perhaps he could have really taken the place of finance minister, after he made one proposal, and all of the newspapers passed it on, how to get Serbia out of the economic crisis. Mr Canak said that only a 70 dinar bill should be printed, with Bart Simpson's character and work, and sold in America, so Serbia will very easily get out of the economic crisis. Even such proposals from DOS leaders have been coming lately, as part of all democratic changes, which have been announced and which have been done all this time. What I may have forgotten to say, when it comes to the Minister of Health, Mr Joksimovic, is that after all the difficulties he will have on his back he is still loaded and green. Or, the former Ministry of Environmental Protection, as they have now changed the name of all democratic changes, so it's not the environment, it's the environment. Probably, by the example of the Croats, who call it the environment. You see, why do we always, when one goes one way, we go the other way. We've had that Ministry of Environmental Protection for ten years. All on one side, and we must do the other. When they all move on to our side, which is good, we probably don't want to be with anyone, we move on to another side. Especially what makes it a way of life in the world today and what is like something in trend, and not only that, but it represents both a real and a human relationship as one country and one people refer to their environment, primarily in the function of future generations and new generations. The mandate suggested that a new ministry on resources and ecology would be formed in six months. It's really okay, it's good and we need to do it right now. It doesn't make any sense to wait here. So many months have passed, these authorities, that they could create this program, especially what's been prepared and only a few days it takes for one such ministry to organize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u176	There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u177	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say a few words to Mr. Djindjic, future Prime Minister. I'd just like to mention some things that are already known. I'm sorry that Mr. Kasa isn't here, but there's Mr. Mihajlovic, he was like the Coalition "Together," remember what it was like, whether we're going to knock down the left block or not, betray and go away. The SPS, JUL, New Democracy "Free Milosevic", was in the past. When he saw he had no authority, he moved on. He's betraying and now he's back with you. You'll have a good chief of police. As for Mr. Kasa, I'm sorry he's not here, probably you don't know him, but he and Mr. Agoston in 1992 in Ada, Adam Bank, convinced the Hungarians to help the Hungarians, and then they took 300,000 marks from Ade Bank, took it to Segedin, allegedly to help the Hungarians, and it was about the lawsuits, but the money was never returned, nor did he answer. Here, for this speaker, it's proven that Mr. Kasa is 20 acres of land in Subotica, I don't know if she's the best or not, and that's for every hectare of eight plots, which is 20 plots, somewhere around a million marks, prescribed to his daughter and everyone else. Do you know that in 1994 or 1993 through the Catholic church in Subotica, which was in Mužlja near Zrenjanin, he removed Croatian refugees. In fact, they weren't refugees because of the war, but at a good premium, he transferred them to Hungary. The same thing he did with Agoston in Mužlja, and there's evidence, the police caught those people, and they were convicted. He's a very close friend of Curtis's, they worked together, you should know that. All that Kasa's done for the good is credit and Curtis. It is certain that such a vice-president of the government will be good for you. Mr. Perisic, I am also sorry that he is not here, but he can see from the stenogram, he was born in Kostunica, president of Gornji Milanovac Dražimir Marusic, where my company worked, has a house home for Mr. Perisic, and when he was probably unjustly retired, taken off his post, surely at that time as a general army he had to be economically protected. Every army general has to be, and it's a shame that when his working life stops, he has nothing to live on. When he was put into retirement, Mr. Dražimir Marusic brought him funds that his family could survive in Belgrade, and that's unfortunate for one general, but all that happened after only six months -- people who work with him get a thousand security marks, it's not. Mr. Obradovic, also not there, is the youngest general who may have been the army's pride and many believed in him, but as soon as he fired and started a real war he immediately left the army. Someone pissed him off and he won't be a general anymore. When it was meant to protect the animal in Croatia, in Bosnia, he left the army. Until then, he was the greatest general, bravest, but as soon as he fired, he was gone. In the end, Mr. Vesenov I would like to remind you, you said about this speaker - when the government was formed one day, and that day came, that all people would be professional, or ministers, in their business. I appreciate you as a college professor and I don't mind, but you're not a college professor. You're a professor, as I read, of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences. So I would remind you of your saying that all ministers should be experts in their field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u178	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we today need to make a statement on proposals for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Vice-Presidents, as well as members of the government. DOS will vote the proposed candidates and this is not disputed for us Serbian radicals. But our moral obligation is to help the people of Serbia, and we are already very much doing so by telling the truth from the assembly pay phone. At this point, I have to look at the overall function and personality of Mr. Zoran Djindjic. In my opinion, and to this I have a fully democratic right, the personality of Zoran Djindjic does not assure me that it will act on the well-being of all Serbian citizens and that it will safeguard our national interest, that it will respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. For all that we Serbian radicals have strong arguments. Zoran Djindjic is the main ideologist and strategist of DOS, who carried out the revolution and coup and violently and counter-constitutionally took over many important institutions of the system, formed crisis headquarters, burned down the Federal Assembly building, burned down the state television building. As an ideologist and strategist, right? If other political parties behave under this DOS system, it would mean that whenever a political party is not satisfied with this or takes their members and sympathisers on the street, it provides logistical support for both the Western forces and the NATO Pact and unscheduledly burns down a building, by choice and desire. The more natural of all this is that the constitution and the laws of this country are not necessary at all, and it can easily happen that our Belgrade wants a building, but the building will not be anywhere. Like "the road will wish for Turks, but [the Turks] will not be anywhere". If we start building like this, we burn and crash, we're gonna want a building, right? I can't bother you very much. I'm afraid you don't burn this assembly, and then we'll sit in the park. I believe that the government, as an executive authority, must be composed of people who are not in a dilemma whether or not they are patriots. He who does not love his country, who destroys it, burns it, and betrays it, cannot be guaranteed to preserve it. Zoran Djindjic has a lot of problems with understanding patriotism and therefore a good deal of Serbian citizens have animosity towards him. In a television show, he asked a philosophical question: "Patriotism -- what is it? "There are countless examples of patriotism in Serbian history, from Emperor Lazar, the Battle of Kosovo, Cera, Kymacchan, to this day, as our ancestors kept above all things and loved their homeland, fought for it and gave their lives and their bones to the borders of Serbia. For me, it is an example of patriotism when a wounded Serb soldier breathes out on a wound to the Serbian flag and hides it, so as not to fall into the enemy's hands. It's a case of patriotism for me. For Mr. Djindjic, it's probably something else. It is a moral and spiritual basis for us Serbian radicals, and for Zoran Djindjic it may not be an example of patriotism, he understands it differently, and he has the right to do so. If Zoran Djindjic's personality is like that, and all of Serbia knows it, what are the other members of the government like? They are neither convincing, nor certain that the government will keep strong pre-election promises, which are easily given to the people in the pre-election campaign. Serbian citizens are on the verge of patience, money promised has not arrived, but has been conditioned by issuing and co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and if the co-operation is realised, the issue will be a mark of new authorities, and Serbian citizens will not feel the improvement of increasingly unbearable life. So far, the blame for the state of the country has been passed on to this and that, but from now on, it is evident and undeniable that all will be held accountable to DOS. There won't be any more other culprits. For other members of the Serbian government, I did not get the guarantee that experts in the areas they are in charge of, and for some of them we have information that they have had problems with addiction diseases, so they will be made it difficult to establish through the necessary authority. The DOS government will act, in my deep confidence, on the principle of a guide who thinks that the grain exists only for the mill to turn to him. For all these reasons, I am unable to give my trust by voting the candidate for president Zoran Djindjic and other candidates for members of the government. I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that in this opinion I have the right and that you, respecting the basic principles of democracy, will not blame me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u180	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u181	The most important thing we've heard in the government's statement is that this government will not lie and steal. Excuse me, Mr. Djindjic, but, knowing some details of your biography, knowing some details of your vice president's biography, I can't take your word for it. If you'd said no more, that's something else. Dear People's MPs, the personal composition of the new government of Serbia accurately depicts DOS as a colorful group. The Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic, has included all DOS leaders, all of them, as vice presidents. Since the promised expert government in the pre-election campaign, there's obviously nothing. No one can convince me that Mr. Veselin is an expert on agriculture. Such coalitions as DOS are inevitably leading to such solutions and have forced the prime minister to reconcile the appetites of various groups within the DOS. Or, you know, a little bar and a lot of crocodiles. In Serbia's new government, there are many interesting characters, especially among the vice presidents. There were people who actively participated in the government in the previous period, i.e. they were part of the so-called “. ” The old regime - Mr. Dusan Mihajlovic, Mr. Perišić, Mr. Obradovic, and finally, former SPS feather, Mr. Covic. So, Mr. Djindjic, continuity with the old regime has been achieved. There are then, people like Mr. Batic, Vesenov, etc. who remained incorrigible opposition. They're just gonna miss Ilic. And really, where's Velya Ilic? I think he had a place in this government too, if we watch who the first fighters of this October revolution were, there was a place in the government of Captain Dragan, Maki Arsenijević, etc. And Joe the baggers, why not. Now that they are definitely in power, these irreparable opposition and have no one to be an opposition, they become an opposition among themselves and themselves. For example, the main opposition to Kostunica is now. That's what you've been able to hear and see on TV for the last 10-15 days. So in the new government, we'll also have opposition ministers and vice presidents, and it'll be very interesting to see how it works. Dear People's MPs, this assembly passed a new law on ministries the day before yesterday. The promoter, which is the DOS Parliamentary Group, explained these changes that the current ministries are too massive and that the new organisation will improve labour efficiency and achieve greater economicity. I am prepared to state that these are not the motives for amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. The motives are primarily political in nature, i.e. motives lie in the personal interests of the new authorities in the country. This claim is based on the following facts -- firstly, it is the Ministry of Finance and Economy, in a description of its responsibilities, in Article 9, says that this ministry will, in addition, deal with credit and monetary and banking affairs. This translates into the Ministry of Finance and Economy, for example. By creating money mass, by printing money, by exchange rate and foreign exchange regime in the country, by prescribing interest rates, by deciding on all financial arrangements with international financial institutions, such as the IMF, the World Bank, the London, the Paris Club, etc. In one word, he'll be doing business that national banks do everywhere in the world. The People's Bank of Yugoslavia has been doing this with us so far. I call on the new finance minister to give me an example of a country in a world where these jobs are not done by a national-monetary institution. And it's usually called the People's Bank. Nowhere in the world does the Ministry of Finance. The creation of the country's monetary policy must be fully independent of the current political guarantee in power. Well, that's what you DOS promise in pre-election campaigns, and September campaigns, and this December. However, it won't be the only thing you promised, and you won't keep it. The first consequence of such powers by the finance ministry is that Mladjan Dinkic will lose his job. That, however, Mr Djindjic promised him 15 days ago, and just as a man got used to living in the role of governor of the National Bank. He loved being governor of the National Bank so much that a month before he was officially elected, he forced himself into the National Bank. And now Mr. Djindjic wants to separate him from the state vault and sell the paprika, as he promised. If he's not the governor of the National Bank, he said, he's going to go sell his paprika. And I don't think it's right for this country to give up such an expert and such an expert. The second, much more serious consequence of this solution is that this government has obviously already given up communities with Montenegro in advance. If the government wants the Serbian Finance Ministry to create the country's monetary policy, it will obviously be an additional argument to Milo Djukanovic and his separatist policy. If we want a common state, then it is clear that we must have a common monetary policy. Another interesting thing about the new ministry law is that we will practically have two ministries, which will deal with one part of the same work. This could lead to a technical error, that it is not a matter of action which is of strategic interest to the country and of the work that can provide the persons involved with it with a unique personal benefit and at the expense of national and state interests. Article 13 of this law, which defines the affairs of the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, says, among other things, that this ministry will be dealt with (quote): "by co-ordinating business in relation to the ownership of the company with strategic foreign investors", or people say, by selling Serbian companies to foreigners. And in Article 17a, which defines the affairs of the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, it is said that this ministry, among other things, will deal with (quote): "preparing foreign investment and (b) harmonising investment from abroad". So both the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs will deal with the same business -- selling Serbian firms to foreigners. This means that foreign investors will run from one minister to another, waiting to offer a lower price for the company they are interested in. So there won't be an organised state event in talks with potential investors. We wonder, and you wonder, why is this done? So for the same reason I mentioned at the outset -- such coalitions as DOS are inevitably leading to solutions like this, because great appetites of different groups within this coalition need to be reconciled. And really, she's a lot of sharks, and the bar is really small. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u182	There is the word of the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, and after him the Messenger of the people, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main points of exposure or the government's programme is Serbia's internal stability, as said in this exposé, and only reading the names and individual personal solutions within the government at the very least seems confusing to most MPs. How can the government find people, who, by their political commitment, have declared in their final case by party action, long ago that they are for the destabilising of Serbia? Stable Serbia primarily means integrated Serbia, Serbia, which will be composed of Cosmet, Vojvodina and all other parts of Serbia. And already in responsible high-ranking positions in this government we have individuals, who are recognizable by their separatist function or, as they say, by autonomous ideas. The first proposal is for a future agriculture minister. It is a man who is heartily seeking to separate Vojvodina from Serbia as soon as possible. For him, the declaration, which is now current when it comes to the status of Vojvodina, is only a transitional solution to the final formation of the Vojvodina as a state. And he's not hiding it. Wherever there's a chance, he says it publicly. If some of his attitudes had changed or he was correcting himself by entering DOS, it's impossible to believe. Here you can see for yourself that this man, conducting a private campaign of his own, means that this private campaign will soon reach the site of the Minister of Agriculture, an important restor, is going to tour the cities and villages of Vojvodina. In addition to recognizable views on the status of Vojvodina, he has already begun to present his ideas as future agriculture minister. It is confusing that he, as a future agriculture minister, knows exactly what the ransom price of wheat will be. From village to village changes that number, from TV show to TV show changes that amount, it is from 30 pfening to brand, all depending on how he estimates that the people who watch or listen to him are in a mood. That's enough to say that a man already at the beginning takes the function he's going to be dealing with unrelentingly. And he does not forget to promote his political views, his political programmes. Of course, at all times, it takes the opportunity to let the villagers in Vojvodina know that their situation and their position is the most guilty of Serbia, that Serbia literally exploits Vojvodina with that already recognizable story: it is all Belgrade's fault. And the problems of the Vojvodina, in his words, begin when the Vojvodina's will to the majority of the population joins Serbia. While she was under Austro-Hungarian, there was no problem with the Vojvodina. If by any chance he had lived during that empire and had been in court, he would have been given a post, which prefixes with "the court." As a member of the DOS, he was awarded the post of minister. And that's the way it is. However, farmers in Vojvodina know that in every part of Serbia, almost every village has one, which serves to cheer up the people, such stents around Serbia have countless and do not take it so seriously. The second proposal is also a significant and high function in the future government, it is the Deputy Prime Minister, that is Kasa, who goes beyond Veselinov. When it comes to the status of the Vojvodina, he goes so far as to announce that the northern part of the Vojvodina will be separated from the Vojvodina state. And he never makes a mistake when he comes out in public, he always backs this up with his statement that it's a hoax, that he doesn't think so, that he thinks he's staying on the ground he was born on, but he doesn't say which country that country is going to belong to. It doesn't go all the way. Secondly, it is a man who discriminates not only against other peoples and nationalities, but also within his nationality, within his people. He declared with his party that he is the only real representative of the interest of the Hungarian national minority. All those who are not in his party are against the Hungarian national minority. Persecute your political opponents, such as Pal Shandor, Andras Agoston, and all others who are not in his party. Lately, he has been raped so much that he has started to discriminate in Subotica, where for a long, long time, the president of the municipality has claimed that everything that is being exported, and it is related to his action and the functioning of his political party, which refers to pressure on the refugees of Serbs and members of other nationalities in Subotica, he says are lies. As it always is, the truth must come out. Lately, Joseph Kassa has proved that he simply cannot be a monument to Emperor Dushan in Subotica. And if Dusan can't be dead, who's the living Serb who's going to believe in such pranks, who's serving Joseph Kasa? I suppose he's for other reasons in this government, just to achieve this point of the program -- to move forward with a reckoning against those who have abused their functions and their positions. You have immediately a high-ranking official, vice president, whom I have already mentioned, he has admitted some of his malfeasances, brought to the public how he did it. It doesn't take much time to prove his illegal activities. Firstly, from earlier on it is known that we Serbian radicals have previously warned about what all the Kasa is doing and how it abuses its function as president of the Municipality of Subotica. We already know how he acquired illegal property at the auction, how he bids land. The auction was scheduled at 10.00 hours, and at 9:00 a.m., he already sold the municipal land to his daughter. Secondly, Kasa admits in the list of "Major So" that he took 15,000 marks from the municipal register twice. It's a clear bill, that's the amount of stamps just to sell in black and buy stamps again on the official course, that gave him at least 100,000 marks. He admits it himself at the Hungarian Sou. However, it is obvious that these are not enough arguments for DOS to come up with clear views of what their thinking is about the position of Vojvodina, when it comes to the future of Vojvodina and about the stability of the Vojvodina. They admire that at one point they will be so powerful and strong that they will be able to prevent such individuals, such as the future Minister of Agriculture or as future Deputy Prime Minister. They're wrong. They're wrong. In this way, gentlemen, you will not be able to remove responsibility for the future and fate of the Vojvodina. We, the Serbian radicals, are now, in time, warning you, but we are aware of the fact that, according to that rule, they are similar in similar resolutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u184	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, followed by MP Vladislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, for the future Serbian government, whose exposés today have been presented by Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, we already know in advance that the difficult and complex situation, in which our country and our people have found themselves, will make it even more difficult, with inconceivable consequences, which we will gradually feel, but which will be far-reaching and which will cost both the Serbian people and the Serbian state of the next who knows how many years. The moves Mr. Djindjic will draw with his scrawny cabinet, and I see that already two-thirds of future members of the government have not been in the O.R. for more than an hour. Apparently, they're bored with what representatives of the Serbian Radical Party say, we who have reason to perform here all the time. So we are absolutely certain, based on what he said, and based on knowledge and political and personal biography and Mr Djindjic and all the proposed members of the government, that you are in no condition at all, nor will you be, to ensure true political stability and security in this country, and that you will bring the political atmosphere into one normal state and that, above all, you will be seducing order in all state institutions, which you are unconditionally mentioning for the past three months. It is simply not possible because this proposed government in general, headed by Mr. Djindjic, proposed vice presidents, some of them are here, and all ministers are individually, neither capable nor ready to deal with all the accumulated problems that we have found ourselves in. The revolutionary enthusiasm, I see, has covered Mr Djindjic so much, and that has been observed during his exhibition of exposés, that he has "forgotten" just one small thing, that you from an interesting political group, which he calls yourself the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, have been in power for almost four months now in Serbia, and three months in SR Yugoslavia, and in Serbia in a permanent coalition, in a permanent pact, call it whatever you want and on the basis of that, and above all, what you do at the federal level, where you do a lot of power, we can judge and conclude now what you will be able to do, and what will be fatal for all of us. They're well-known all your moves on the federal level. SRS MPs to the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic pointed out this when they discussed the proposed federal budget for 2001. We don't believe that a better situation will be at a republican level. Mr Djindjic forgets another small thing, which is that the DOS interest group, which exercises power at the federal level, has made disastrously bad moves on the international political plan, which is already costing us and which will create many problems in international - legal relations, and especially because of what you have asked for, you have wiped out 200 years of our statehood. Of course, the consequences of all this, especially regarding the issue of paying war damage to Muslims and Croats, the issue of succession, with your expert Dinkic, will already be felt. Mr Djindjic, two months ago, was in a heated election campaign ahead of the early republican DOS elections, led by Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja. Afterwards, he promised the troubled Serbs living in southern Serbia, these three municipalities, Serbs living in the area of our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, that immediately after 23 December, so when he sat down in his prime chair, along with his click, he would resolve the issue, as he said "armed Albanians". Because what they are are the escalations of the Shipatarian bandits, ballistics and terrorists, you call the actions of the armed Albanians. In doing so, you are ignoring the fact that today you did not mention it even though these attacks by the Cypriot gangs escalated during the last night and during the morning, that it was that these Shipatarian bandits occupied two and a few months ago our territory in the land zone, that this increased, that it was now much more, and that the mortar attacks endanger the safety and safety of the rest of the population in the area and that, long ago, the Cypriot bandits had been in the vicinity of the centre of Bujanovac. Of course, it doesn't matter to you. The election's over. You've received that number of votes, that number of mandates, and today, with your congregation majority, you're going to vote such a constituency government. General confusion and a sea of controversy, on many issues, are always in your interest group, or DOS coalition. And what we Serbian radicals have done, protecting the Constitution and the law, above all, is the electoral law voted in this assembly, and what you have in the first minutes of delivery on new television, the Serbian Radio TV, because you have burned the old one, called the obstruction of the Serbian Radical Party, therefore, the repeat of the elections at certain polling stations on January 10th is welcome for you, because because of all these contradictions and all of the confusion that has been created and the conglomerates of 18 political parties, foreigners and among those leaders, you have received time to agree on the resor and personal composition of your future cabinet. That Mr Djindjic is a true political commissioner of the post-revolution committee, all the ministers in his ranks are speaking. Some of your colleagues from the SRS have counted how many years it is, how many individually you have in power, members of the former communist regime, and at that job you have proven yourself. So, in the former Yugoslavia and during one such dictatorship and autocracy. In particular, it is expressed through a relationship with us that we think differently from you, and especially through the atmosphere of the media lynch, which was the most pronounced, according to representatives of the SRS in the pre-election campaign and for September and December elections. There is not a single TV set at the local level in Serbia, which is under your authority, which could have been visited unhindered by an SRS representative. So, we who were candidates for MPs, not to talk about regular conferences for political party journalists. Just the fact that I'm Kragujevac and you have what's called there. The Kragujevac radio television, speaking for itself enough, and those who can track what the TV broadcasts, will rather see all that the new Croatian Ustasha supporter Stjepan Mesic said that day, and not a word of Serbian patriots, than those who go before voters for the elections. So you're "democratic" and you keep talking about it, trying to deceive the entire public. We Serbian radicals have always spoken critically and with argument and then when we were opposition to the left-wing regime, and it has proved to be from your five-octobaric revolution and in the Federal Assembly, though, and we rarely, wherever we had the chance, we have spoken with argument, and we will do so in the future, about all your devastating moves. Experts are a real story. Some of them are already slowly in and out of their seats. These are the experts you predicted for your future cabinet, for the future Serbian government. There will be, Mr Djindjic, a major problem with SR President Yugoslavia, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, that this is not exactly the concept, that this is not exactly what your coalition partners advocate at the federal level, because the fact that future ministers are "experts" in this Serbian government that you are planning is slightly different from those at the federal level. There are those representing Group 17-plus, minus, as already called, and here are representatives, such as Mr Pitic, Vlahovic from the Economic Institute. This can lead to some conflict, and you must certainly take care of it. A time which, contrary to the Rules of Procedure and what he said at the beginning of today's session, Mr. Martian, the chairman, has limited me, does not allow me to speak individually of each of the proposed ministers. There's a lot to be said and it's interesting for our general public, for the citizens who are monitoring this transmission, above all for you who are sitting here. I'm going to have to look back on just some of them, of course justified, similar to everything I said in the first part of my presentation. For us Serbian Radicals and for the entire Serbian people a cultural tradition, our cultural heritage, which we have cherished over the centuries, is certainly one unique civilization basis on which awareness of our own identity is formed. And, in addition, to vote in general against such a proposal, against what Mr. Djindjic has said, it is absolutely unacceptable, not only for us from the SRS, but I believe, and for all those who may not know what he is saying and what Mr. Branislav Lecic represents, that he assumes patriotism and heroism to be humble and disdainful towards those who want to destroy Serbia and the Serbian people, who want to disperse our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u186	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u187	One more minute, if you'll excuse me, I'll be done. It is certainly surprising that for Mr Lecic, primitive and illiterate people who do not see our international political position in the NATO Pact and those who oppose the world tyranny of new world powers, and those who oppose everything that defends righteous and free-loving nations, such as we Serbs. Not to mention the indications, which are quite clear, which exist, that his appointment at the head of this resort will create the possibility of the so-called Open Society Fund or the Soros Foundation, you know whose organization, particularly anti-Serbian, infiltrated into the institutions of the system, or cultural institutions under the authority of the Republic Government. The financial experts are, again, a story to themselves. Yesterday morning's amendments to the Ministry Act, the introduction of a strange finance and economy ministry, and the lead of this portfolio, Mr Djelic, are also interesting for both MPs and our general public, because it is well known that in this difficult situation we have found ourselves in, and your six billion dollars of promised assistance, which are about to arrive and never arrive, is difficult for us with such a minister at the head of this portfolio. Mr Djelic said that on October 5th, that was his statement, and in the days after that, he cried with happiness in Paris, what happened to someone burning down the Federal Assembly building, the state television, to make a coup in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u188	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u189	I'm afraid the citizens of Serbia will cry with him at the head of this resort. The question is how will he project a republican budget, when it is well known that from every country that he was in, those who brought him there, they had to resort to driving him away as soon as possible. So it was in Poland, so it was in Russia, where he was no less or less a Chubeis advisor and where he brought into economic collapse this, our friendly state. All in all, in the representatives of the Serbian Radical Party you will have sharp critics, we will reason on you. I suppose that, as it is now, it will only be funny to you, because to everything my colleagues have brought to the speaker, about how they see the future work of Mr. Djindjic's government, you had nothing to say and you won't have to say it, because it's all true what we've said. In us, you will have a strong, constructive and very strong opposition, and the citizens of Serbia will see - heads cool off, it's been a while - that we were right when we talked about what you are and what your people are like from that, how you're tempered, cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u190	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the prime minister has already warned us in the second sentence and informed us that the conditions in which our country is presently, in almost all indications, are drastically poor. We know that, Mr. Djindjic. If they weren't so bad, you'd never come to power. It's just that you're eager to expect when such bad results come, that people change power, at all costs, to cover their noses, as one of your representatives said, and to vote for DOS. In another, no other circumstance could lead you to power, except for a drastically bad life. The fact that you've helped us live badly, that stays out of the way, because it's not right for you right now. The fact that you were looking forward to every failure of state policy, even when it had the best intentions, and when they were completely justified, it led you to power. Don't ever complain to us that the situation is bad. It's a bad situation, but you're in charge of the situation now. If it's so bad it can't be ruled by this country, what were you fighting for power? What you didn't say -- it's not worth it, it's all in the mud and in the ashes, and we even to win, there's nothing we can do. Come on, first, hang these guys that put you in this situation, so let's call the election that someone's going to go out on and someone's going to try to win. I have heard that, Mr. Djindjic, you will ensure that as we entered Europe, there will be no more drugs, no more corruption, no more crime in this country. Just tell me, what is our European country model? What European state, in these two thousand years so modern, economically prosperous, democratically advanced, has succeeded in saving its children and youth from drugs, its politicians from corruption, its citizens from crime? You remind us of the well-being in the area of citizens' security at the time of communism. This time, which is now before us, tells us that such a security situation, such security, such public order and peace, your government will not be able to provide. She can't, because under very bad circumstances, she can't because you've amnested everything that's been done on October 5th. It can't, because you're preparing a law on amnesty, which will amnesty for all those who have committed any crime. To God, they are all unjustly condemned. He can't, because in prison, you spend time with people who may have stolen pigs to take him home and feed the family, and you let terrorists go, you release the murderers of our militiamen, the rapists of our girls and our women. To God, they're political prisoners of the former regime. Reading the government's composition, it is obvious that in our government, among ministers, it will dominate English. It's obvious. It will be a terrible influence for those who have been paid for American money so far. Knowing your life's path, Mr. Djindjic, I expect a conflict between the German and American lines. But that's not certain either, because in these 11 years, as much as you've been doing politics, I haven't been able to find any thread that would lead you all 11 years, so I could say today -- I know, Mr. Djindjic, this will be just as you say. Fair enough, that's the first lost thread. What about the relationship to Republika Srpska, Mr. Djindjic? I visited the fronts, and I ran into you at the Palace, with Karadzic, and you ate the ox there. When NATO attacked him, you were the first to break up relations with Karadzic in Serbia, so they said - I never had any serious relations with him. It's history. You certainly have information about me. I have about you. Of course, you're in a position to solve what data you're going to publish, and I'm left with this pay phone, until the Home Secretary arrests the MPs. One of his MPs was the chairman of the Administrative Board at the time the police beat us here. At a time when I served in Gjilan, his MP made a decision at night to crush the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to remove immunity from one MP, two Serbian Radical Party MPs. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, from the scene, what was his name? His name was Mr. Seselj, if you don't know, Jovica Stojmenović and Tomislav Nikolic. The MP who did this is Zarko Jokanovic. How can you convince me, Mr. Djindjic? If the interior minister ruled this country from 1994 to 1998, who will investigate monopoly privileges, who will examine the privilege of buying foreign exchanges in the official course, if the political party was in power at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u192	Don't throw it out of the O.R., please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u193	Is this going to be one skipped period in the interview? Yours, and I hear that yesterday you received medical assurance at the Medical Academy, but I'd like to check your passport, Mr. Djindjic, your 1999 passport discriminates against you as a candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic Government. NATO has committed an aggression on us, you went to them, what was that there, what kind of collaboration is logistics? Did you happen to tell them where the most sensitive Milosevic is, so I'll tell you, when you knock down the bridges, when you knock down the factories, when you bomb TV, when you're firing radioactive missiles at the Yugoslav Army, Milosevic will drop. Is there somewhere in the world, and another case, that someone who went to his country during the aggression to live with the aggressor, to return and become Prime Minister? It exists in occupied countries and you owe us, Mr. Djindjic, to tell us whether or not we are now occupied land? As far as your relations with Montenegro are concerned, I really can't figure it out, I can't really find it in these 11 years, and this thing with Montenegro is the freshest. Well, you encouraged Milo Djukanovic to secede. When did Goran Vesic come to Belgrade? A few days ago. Who he was with the whole time, two or three years. Mil Djukanovic's. Who organized the elections in Montenegro? A democratic party. Why is it so incomprehensible to you now, why he wants to secede? Well, you told him he should run from the dictatorship from Belgrade. What is this in Belgrade now, democracy? Why does Milo Djukanovic run from democracy in Belgrade? Or how are you going to stop him from leaving in the first place, when all of you in the DOS are telling him he should go. He was a lever that collapsed Belgrade, and of course the lever cannot bring down Belgrade, and now Milo Djukanovic is not important to anyone. Well, it's important to Serbian citizens, especially Serbs. How to separate, for God's sake, how to separate Serbia and Montenegro, Mr Djindjic. On what grounds? You can see that Gašo Knezevic is nosticizing diplomas from Republika Srpska. Now your birth certificate from Republika Srpska will also nostrify. I'm not saying the birth certificate, because you boasted you weren't baptized. What if you recommend that we take more care of the Balkans in general, bring peace and prosperity to the Balkans and introduce it to Europe, that this is more important than to provide international recognition to our nation. I really don't understand what the Balkans are offering me now, that was Mira Markovic, five or six years ago. Should we take care of the Balkans? For God's sake, let's go to Vranje to see how we'll take care of Vranje, let's go to Gracanica to take care of Gracanica, we'll go to Tutin to take care of Tutin, we'll go to Subotica to stop Joseph Kasa, and there it is, to tear down Dušan's monument with great force. If he is known for something Dusan is powerful, he is famous for protecting his laws in a sense and for protecting the people from the masters. Gašo Knezevic to be Minister of Education and Sports! Now, the children will look up to Gaš Knezevic, to deal with physical culture. They'll take special care of his vices and what he's been treated for. [[Applause]] It will lead us to sports, and education will guide education, by introducing a precedent at Belgrade University. First, he annulled a minister's solution, and drove him away, tried to get a regular professor out of that university. Is it ever in communism that a regular professor was forced out of college without being a cleaning lady and a hack? What else did you expect when he said he was coming back to college to get Vojislav Seselj out of college? So you're going to convince me that it's democracy, that you're DOS, that you're as much of the opposition as you are democratic. Now Gasho will become Serbia's Supreme Court. Well, why wouldn't he be? Don't make Vladan Batic a minister of justice, don't. It's ironic, it's cynical, it's sarcastic, and it's trying to kidnap hundreds of millions of dollars from Serbian citizens and put them in Milan Panic's pocket. Don't. He flew in with his automatics at Galenika, waved papers, for God's sake, it was decided, the factory is ours. Oh, that's not true. The factory is Serbian citizens. That hohstappler Panic only invested $5.2 million in Galenika. Galenika and today he's paying all his bills. He increased his stock on all markets through Galenika's factory. How will the right worry Vladan Batic in Serbia, if hundreds, and here some people will answer, $5,000, 10, 100, million, hundreds of millions of dollars are in Galenica. Last year, the net profit was 200 million dinars. And not to tell you how he got into the car factory. There are some of my Kragujevci MPs here. Since Vladan Batic entered the car factory, has a single car been built. Is that what he's offering us? I even hear that some economic advisor to you is Dragash. I just hope it's not the Dragas that the court has been unsuccessfully trying to bring in for an affair with the import of a car that looked like this with Dafina and Jazda. Hundreds of citizens remain deprived of the car that has been paid in advance. He's being accused of being the initiator, of being the idea creator of that story about cars, and he's not responding to the subpoenas. He probably came to you so he wouldn't answer. I know that you warned me on time, there is no Nebojka Covic, and I would ask you if you will again strike in the GSP to solve it, that Nebojsa Covic will lead the beatings, and the generals are there. It's incompatible to me, generals and democracy, indeed. I served my army regularly, if I thought there was a democracy in the army, I would never go to the army. They weren't waiting for me there with democracy. They were waiting for me by order. This is the first time I've heard there are generals who are Democrats, or they weren't good generals, or they're lying about being Democrats. You can't spend 40 years in the army without being a Democrats. One more thing I would ask Mr. Perisic more than Mr. Obradovic, there is something called the secret of a state for all time, Mr. Perisic. [[Applause]] It was very difficult for me when I listened to you during your aggression, talking about secrets that were only available to you as Chief of Staff, about our weak defence power, about where our weak points are, about where we can't defend ourselves. You need to know, what was available to you when you were a military person, it should be buried in you for all time, and you must not use it in any kind of political account.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u194	I'm asking you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u195	Here, I'm bringing the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u196	Thank you very much. The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, followed by the MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that DOS' promised formulas of success of the entire social system are not based either in the Assembly or outside it, in the people. The people of Serbia expressed confidence and gave mandates to the DOS, viewing the DOS as working for the people. All these promises contain about themselves many unknowns, long known in our Serbia. Are you ready to respond to all the demands of the people? You expect the assistance of a sponsor who will solve all problems today's Serbia. The sowing and harvesting are poorly designed, thirsty and fast country is looking for greater engagement. The peasants won't be waiting long for answers. What about political problems? What's going on with southern Serbia? Where is your solution to the problem in 24 hours? Does Bujanovac, Presevo and Bear and other parts of the South disappear from Serbia? Will Vojvodina gradually separate from the separatist aspirations of Hungarians, Bunjevac and some Serbs? Who can give us an answer? What kind of security is promised? Is the European Union's cost of non-computing with terrorists and giving up Serbia's south? How are terrorists treated in the European Union? Is it like ours? No, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party will take every effort in this parliament and outside it to preserve the interests of the Serb people, to keep all territories in general, and to help the Serb people move forward, and we prove that. The division of power has formally begun. The first stage is saturated with donations from Europe, Japan, America and Libya. When that phase becomes a practice, then chaos will arise. There's no country, there's no benefactor who's gonna sponsor forever, and we're used to doing everything else. The Serbian Radical Party advocates its own sources with its programmes, for programmes that will satisfy a larger number of our population. You sold all the ideas. Who? Why and the mail? Who gave you the right? For a handful of dollars! We Serbian radicals won't let that happen. You're calling our murderers, our executioners the benefactors. Does that have a price? There isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u198	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, 100,000 health workers, as well as Serbian citizens, health care users, expect to see who will be the next health minister. In any case, the next Minister of Health should be a competent person, a professional, highly educated and, above all, a person who can respond to all the tasks ahead of him. I'm not going to speak my subjective opinion of Dr Joksimovic, my colleague, because I personally don't know him, but I'm going to present to you what the papers have written, and the Dosov newspaper, what people have shown about him. "The Public Voice" of 20.1.2001, titled "Repression of Profession", where 133 health workers from Kruševac were said to have sent a letter to Mr Kostunica, in which they said of Mr Joksimovic, quote... "from his biography, dominated by aggressive behavior, discipline and conflict." I will not speak individually of many cases recorded during the last period in the press, especially in "Blica", where individuals express their dissatisfaction with the fact that Dr Joksimovic did not provide them with a health care service in good time, because it is likely that time has expired, which is far from the ethics that we doctors have to possess anyway. I will only tell you about groups of people who have publicly declared that Mr Joksimovic is not for the health minister. First of all, Dragoljub Stosic, president of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Yugoslavia, who says counterparts Dr Ivancevic, until yesterday's health minister and his brother, Radoslav Zelenovic, former Minister of Ecology, are now the main advocates of Mr Joksimovic, becoming minister. By yesterday they were in the SPO, now they're in the DSS, where they're taking key positions again. First of all, Dr Joksimovic is being pursued, so that he will later give them the post of director of the Clinical Centre of Serbia or some other major medical institution. They're the first trade unions to come forward. The second group, or president of the new health union, Mr. Zivorad Mrkic, said health workers are under the impression that the guinea pigs are back in the experiment because there will be repression over the profession. First of all, they tell Dr Joksimovic that he will certainly not heal the existing wounds, but will scratch even deeper with his steel broom. I guess we're not able to communicate with doctors with steel brooms. In the same "Plaise of the Public" since 20.01.2001, they write which are the sins of Dr. Nada Kostic, if the doctor or health minister from the same party, from the Democratic Party of Serbia, is asking a legitimate question. The Democratic Party is more than obliged to explain to the public the reasons for the run for a new, unknown personality. That, it says, cannot be kept hidden from the public and from all members of the party. What did Dr. Nada Kostic do wrong? I will move to a statement from 23 January 2001, where bitter doctors from the Democratic Party of Serbia write about their minister, about their staff. When they think like this, what should we from the Serbian Radical Party think of the future health minister? First of all, Dr Zoran Milicevic, who is otherwise a member of the Health Committee from the Democratic Party of Serbia, says -- doctors, members of the Democratic Party of Serbia's health board are bypassed in the process of any decision on the health minister. It's like we don't exist. I used my own party all the legitimate means and procedures, or knocked on all the doors, but I ran into a Chinese wall, raised incredibly fast. For this Dr Joksimovic, the future health minister, he says - that he is unknown to the professional public both as a doctor and as a man, and how long in politics, separated from profession, patients, health care, we are concerned about how he will solve burning problems. I'm afraid because of the lack of knowledge of the personnel in the leading places, the Julien personnel and their satellites will rise. You can see for yourself how the Democratic Party of Serbia decides in a democratic way. In the end, I will just point out that in "The Evening News" of January 24th, you can read that many unions at the Clinical and Hospital Centre, above all "Dr Dragisa Misovic", at the City Hospital, in the House of Health "New Belgrade", Medical Work on the block 44, at the Emergency Centre, had a one-hour warning strike, precisely because this gentleman should become a health minister. And you can see for yourself what kind of selection the staff is doing and what kind of future health ministers we're going to have. I would add to that that during NATO bombings in the eco-system, there was damage of four billion and 250 million dollars. If this ministry is added to the Ministry of Health, I wonder how the future health minister will answer all the questions asked and what he will do to improve the health of all our citizens in the eco-system, in the environment. Since I am from Jablanic County, which is the poorest, I would ask the question, because of the decentralisation of health in my Jablanic district, where there are small municipalities, such as Crna Trava and Medvedje, in which way we will stimulate healthcare professionals to stay in these municipalities, to work, if it is known that individuals - doctors and healthcare professionals in some other municipalities will have five or six times the salary. It is these municipalities, which I listed in my region, the district, that are border municipalities towards Kosovo and Metohija, that is, towards Bulgaria. Black grass now has only three thousand inhabitants, and you should know that over 70,000 have them all over Serbia. It's not just to defend our country by having an army and a police force, but we have to have a natural misery, a natural barrier, and we can only do that if we have our people on our territory. In this way, what we're trying to do is decentralize, we're certainly going to lose some of the population from those territories. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u200	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, you are, Madam Vice President of the House, I can't blame you, but the Prime Minister has to sit in the bench when the MPs decide to speak, because everything we have to say, we have to tell him. If he came out, you had to take a break, wait for him, and then let's tell him what he has to say. It doesn't matter, I'm just gonna ask him at the end of something, I guess. It's obvious we're getting a new government today. New by personality, but old by ideology. In fact, it's only going to be half the new government. The previous was composed of radicals and socialists, and this new one was from communists and Democrats. We could call this a red-and-yellow coalition, and this is "fun," as Gogos would say, these two groups represent the true reincarnation of JUL. It's true, isn't it the same folklore, the same termology, encased in that famous word -- positioning. Our staff must be well positioned, so far away that even the MPs in this assembly want to position themselves as close as possible to the front lines. The same is true in this group, kidnapping of all profitable, moral-political similarities or incompatibility, public disqualification of political opponents, according to the system of the famous "two without corporals", Goran Matic - Ivan Markovic, protection of monopoly companies. One word: "panta rei... "Everything changes, only red stays." Of the seven vice presidents, four are communists, not just any communist, not ordinary members, but pillars of the communist regime and their ideologists. The one who ran the militia on strikers, so they called him the "red kicker", by changing the image, is now no longer a "red kicker", is now a democratic alternative beating. After all, it is the only alternative he could learn during his long years of service to his red ideology. There are two red generals, also pillars of the regime. They were his bat, his rifle, and his tank of bohemians, when he was supposed to take him out on the street once. The villains say they left the army when they lost positions, when they were no longer at will or supreme, or the Supreme Defence Council. Other villains say they're gone because they couldn't make up with a change in the rules of service. It bothered them, "Mr. General," because they've always been "partners" in their souls and behavior. Billy and the others. And as "partners," they conquered parties, which have a word in them -- democracy. Well said Toma Nikolic -- my poor Serbia, when generals teach you democracy. The fourth pillar of the former regime, when the State Security Service (I was banned from talking about it, but here's what I would say if I hadn't been banned) -- was given by Vuk Draskovic by more MPs than he had party members. He immediately translated those members into his "red nest" and ruled this country for four years. Then when he was removed from power, as offended, he became the strongest opposition. He took advantage of his involvement in power, they say, to the last dinar, just as he fought for that power until his last breath. He will now serve as interior minister. He said his first duty would be to relieve the director, or chief of the Public Security Sector. It's a sign that some DOS officials finally got their files and now there's nothing more to be afraid of. If they didn't happen to be, I expect they'll fly as many feathers as... He didn't collect a word in his life. The DOS exercised power in Serbia over the past three months. They're not defending themselves because it was a transitional coalition government. It's not. So she asked more in the Serbian government one coffee cook, a DOS member than Milomir Minic, the fictitious Prime Minister. And as they exercised power, they felt citizens, businesses, and private ones. The greatest pearl of his rule is the imposition of private importers, for example. oil derivatives, of four dinars per litre, which must be paid at the expense of direct competition to NIS. The next legal nonsens, some private bakers come to me, and they ask if they should pay some dinar to the Belgrade bakery industry. According to that logic, the private metalsmiths of Sartida, then the auto mechanics of the flag, then the free artists of the theatres, and free journalists themselves can determine which newspaper they will pay for some dinar. The next pearl is - transforming the Office of Accounting and Payment into a bank. The accounting and payment office is becoming a direct competition to banks. Since he is hitting a commission on all cash transactions, he is not interested in a lot of foreign exchange sales fees, so that no normal citizen changes his foreign currency in the bank anymore, but changes it to the SDK former, and now to the Office for Accounting and Payments, which is a kind of bank. The next nonsens is so-called. swimming the course of the dinar, which is announced at the end of the day, so if the German brand sales course is below 30 dinars on that day, make sure that DOS officials' friends made financial transactions. And to finish, since there is no president yet, what has not been proven by work and knowledge has gone to the parties, DOS members. Many of them are in this room. Mr. Djindjic is making a new government out of such personnel. When he became mayor of Belgrade, "birger meister", as I said at the time, I predicted it would take several months, and I did not make a mistake. Since then, I have been called the prophet Hezekiah. Now I'm saying he won't put more than six months together. I wanted to ask him-- does he really believe what he's told us here? I think he does, so I wanted to tell him that Pinocchio believed in the toy country too, but eventually his nose and ears grew.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u202	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u203	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I wanted to speak to the future president, ministers and vice presidents, and they are not here, so I'm going to skip it now. Like most MPs, I was, of course, curiously expecting the exposés of the prime minister for the formation of the new government. To be honest, I listened carefully to everything he said in it, and immediately to say that I share in general the largest number of grades given about it, and that is, while being rational in terms of what took a short while in the presentation, but that in general, and in general, it is very principled, very general, very global, inconclusive, and it actually does not see two of the most important things. The first is what are the mechanisms, which is the programme, and how it will be realised in the exhibition as priorities in the work of this government. Without that, of course, the exposé and the government programme cannot get one more serious support. It may be that the development of the programme, which Mr Djindjic presented in the exhibition, will be a matter of the new government and that we, probably within the context of the implementation of these priorities, will see later on how and how they will be tried, as can be. Secondly, the exposé does not speak at all about what is the basis of what is given in the exposé and the government's programme. Many very important areas of life and work in our Republic have not been mentioned. And businesses, and citizens and everything else. To be rational and not spend more time than I should, I would like to remind you that the head of the SPS Group is Mr. Professor. Bane Ivkovic just spoke about these things in his address on two occasions. Because in general I support what he said, I don't want to say it again, but I consider it a great lack of exposure, what was supposed to be in the exposé. Although there are no mandaters, but it is probably followed by the candidates present for vice-presidents and ministers, I want to launch six concrete issues and topics, which are not mentioned in the exposé, which I believe are important from the point of view of the programme and the functioning of the state and its construction in the coming period. First, nothing is said about spatial planning, urbanism and other strategic matters. Of course, this can primarily be the task of the new building minister, but there can be no announced development programme, no announced strategic, regional investment, without taking into account the spatial plan and its implementation in practice. To remind all of you, MPs, that on 19 March 1996, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia as a strategic and development document for the period until 2010, which defined both the long-term foundations of the organisation and the use of space, the direction of urbanisation and the basic criteria of regulating the settlement in our Republic, defined the plan principles and criteria for the use of natural resources and the protection of the environment, so what the Prime Minister announces will form a special ministry. He then defined the conditions for the protection and use of the area of special importance and defined the corridors of the basic infrastructure systems. I have here a review of the activities, which has been implemented so far within the Ministry of Construction, where I was a deputy minister for four years, and within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that so far the spatial plans of the special purpose area have been defined, henceforth the water-accumulation spill, 14th, that the spatial plans of the pool of lignite investigations have been defined and ten of them, that the spatial plans of the infrastructure network have been defined, primarily the corridor of the Nis - the Macedonian border, Nis - the Bulgarian border, Subotica - Belgrade, the border with Croatia, Belgrade - Nis and so on. Information systems have also been defined on the planning and arrangement of space and settlements and the construction of buildings of the Republic of Serbia by 2010, which need to find places in the government's work programme and ministries, as there is no planned urban and concrete and correct development without it. This is the first topic, so implementation and implementation of the spatial plan must be found, if not in the exposé, since it has already been submitted and completed, then in the government programme, as the most important strategic document. The second question is about NATO's aggression against our country. That was a lot of words. Not one word, Mr. Djindjic, I'm sorry he's not here, but it doesn't matter, this is recorded, he didn't mention any war damage. It's important from two points of view. First, there has been so far implemented activities within all relevant institutions and organisations of the Republic of Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia in the process of determining war damage and a temporary budget of war damage caused by NATO aggression on our Republic. He was also delivered to the president and resolute Deputy Prime Minister, who are not here. I don't want to talk about the number, which is written in this document, for understandable reasons, but I want to show you all the final account, the economic consequences of NATO bombing, the assessment of the damage and the funds needed for the economic reconstruction of Yugoslavia, in Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's and Group 17 plus, signed by, among other things, Mr. Labus, Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government, not to read the whole team (shows material). These are now relevant people, because they are located in very responsible places, Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government, Governor of the National Bank, there is Mr Antic, Minister and so on. Since this was made public, it's no secret, they found that war damage is $29.6 billion. It's written here what's in the infrastructure, what's in the business facilities, what's in the non-profit civilian facilities, what's destroyed by natural wealth, the loss of national wealth, the loss of human capital, and so on. Are we going to ask to charge? Will it be something that is a priority, besides other things that Mr Djindjic spoke of? I think he has to. And not just that. When we find out these numbers, when we're done with a definitive estimate, we'll see how much money we get as a donation, like some kind of humanitarian aid, or I don't know what to call it, funny, even cynical. We should probably get paid for this first, and then we'll see other things. I think, and I propose to Parliament, that we oblige the new government to come out in front of this Parliament and the public with the numbers so far, how much assistance has been received on a variety of grounds in our country and where these funds have been spent. Third, nowhere to be mentioned, not in a single word, residential construction. We can think differently about what a program is to build 100,000 apartments in ten years or 1,000 apartments a year. Process initiated. The first apartments were built, hundreds of first apartments were moved in. The construction of these apartments must continue. Because it is expected by representatives of the Yugoslav Army and internal affairs and young married couples and so on. And not just that. (President: Mr. Pavlovic, your 10 minutes are up. I'm sorry. We have engaged a complete construction operation, ladies and gentlemen, at 200 construction sites, several tens of thousands of workers are employed through public works, the entire construction industry is activated, the entire economy is launched. It's inadmissible, I'm not going to say any harder words. Furthermore, I am the MP on the SPS list, which is not controversial, and this is our party's policy. I am also a folk MP from the territory of the City of Belgrade. I would also like to remind the new government that there is a decision by the Assembly and the Government to finance development programmes of particular interest for the Republic of Serbia and the city of Belgrade. That's what we did. So, traffic infrastructure, Belgrade's railway node, as a significant investment, must be in the programme. In the area of municipal infrastructure -- the Obrenovac thermal pipeline -- Belgrade -- as the most important in energy terms. Then, let me tell you about the prices. There is nothing in any word about prices, and especially about the prices of municipal services, because that is what burdens all the citizens of our Republic, because these are the public functions that we have entrusted to the Ministry of Justice and that is a catastrophic mistake. These are functions that are vital to the economy. There's two things. The accounts are enormously increased, in the case of plumbing and many others. The bills are up to 10,000 dinars. To remind the government, under the Law on Public Enterprises, article 32 defines the obligation, control and consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia regarding prices. This is an obligation to protect citizens from unnecessary, unnecessary and irrational gatherings. As far as the government's composition is concerned, it is the right of the prime minister to put together the government as he thinks, personally and organisationally, that it is best. He must take responsibility for this assembly and the people for the government's results. It will remain noted that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the first democratic, says Mr Djindjic, had seven vice-presidents. I looked on the Internet, and I couldn't find that there was a government with seven vice presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u204	The word has the People's MP Dragan Tomic, and let the MP Ljubomir Mucic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u205	The honourable MPs, since a little while ago, when it was intended to speak to the prime minister, agreed that the discussion was unlimited, I would ask the chairman that I turn down my first part of the discussion and wait for the Deputy Prime Minister and members of the government to enter the hall, and then I should speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u206	Time is not unlimited at all, but limited to 10 minutes, let me remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u207	Then, this behavior is already in itself a disrespect of this congregation. We've already started disrespecting... The government has no respect for its MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u208	There's no obligation under the Rules of Procedure for the Prime Minister to sit in the O.R. He can follow the discussion on the screen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u209	Here, the chairman tells me that the candidate for prime minister can expose the exposés and go home and rest and when we're done, come here. (Glass: It's not like that. I understand. Dear People's MPs, the first sentence of the candidate's term of office is that this exposure is, in fact, a pre-election programme of DOS. (Gindzic: It's not like that. I'll say something different from my predecessors. In these 100 days, we have had the opportunity to see a series of visits by representatives of the Democratic opposition across Europe where they were invited and indeed we have been lifted from sanctions, we have been returned to some European institutions. But I think we kind of came to the level where we were in 1995 when we signed the Dayton Agreement. Everything else, somehow further, sort of elaborate. What I'm interested in, and it's not mentioned in the exposé, and I'd like to ask the candidate for the mandate, where is the border when blackmails towards the Serbian people stop? I'm looking at it like this. I have to remind you here no one mentions Rambui. I'll explain it a little bit. I must say that this assembly, in its previous session, voted on Rambuje and complete, where all political parties were MPs, said they would not accept this Rambui. I only want to compare Rambuje with something. That's where our delegation signed the first deal, and then in Rambouille, he lands in a hurry, Madeline Albright and James Rubin, and then new laws appear, that is, a number of annexes. I wonder if that's the past for this Serbia, if these military annexes are gone. To remind you, it is then required that NATO troops enter the Yugoslavia area, and that they do not comply with our regulations. That was the end, and that's when the bombing started. So that's the real reason why the bombing of the SR of Yugoslavia started and the second reason it was wanted to enter Kosovo. And TV was bombed at that time. Yesterday we heard the information that someone told us there was going to be a bombed TV on that day, at that time, in so many hours. I'm thinking something, so I'm wondering, which doesn't tell us about Alexine, which doesn't tell us about the Gredile ravine, the low market and all the troubles that hit us back then. May those I didn't mention forgive me, but several thousand victims have fallen. I wonder if there are any more of these requirements for us, whether there is a requirement towards Serbia and Serbia, whether this government and this parliament will have the opportunity to say, where the limit of suffering of the Serbian people and other peoples is on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, and a good part of these citizens is in the area of the SR Yugoslavia. I listened very carefully, and I couldn't find a word of youth anywhere. Not a word about it in the exposé. Something was mentioned there as schooling, a little through sports, but we broke it and the others will take care of it. The only thing that remains is that I think the youth will be taken into account by some government organizations that are financed from abroad. It would be good for the youth, if there is no possibility of forming a ministry, then at least in the Ministry of Education to be a specific resort where young people will be taken care of. We didn't take the youth out on the street and we won't take them out on the street. We're not going to do the basics or the high school kids. They belong in school, to be educated, to be worthy of hosthood. I have to say, so far, no one's ever looked back on the word "agriculture." We got the minister, but not a word about it in the exposé. We don't know who's going to think about the villagers, who's going to solve their questions, whether there's going to be an agrarian budget in the new programme at all. But we got a minister. The candidate for prime minister was staying with us in Šapec, in this last election campaign. By going to Zork, the first finding was to shut down the Sabbath fertilizer. We know, we could have done it eight years ago, when sanctions were imposed. We had a lot of political excuses. The factory's been trained, and it can work. Then some of our local leaders there immediately began to race in explanations of how to shut down that factory, which is the foundation and foundation, and created the entire Holding Company "Zorca". There's a thousand workers out there and I'm addicted to another thousand. So, about 2,000 workers should be out of work. The worst thing is that those who have entered the bulldozers now at Zork are saying that they need to be produced, others are saying that they should be imported, and I guess the new minister immediately listened to them, so they import 170,000 tons of fertilizer. I want to know how it's gonna get to the peasants. It's a question for the minister when he has a chance to talk about the subject. For last, I have to say another little impression of myself in this period of exposure. The part about the expert government. I have no impression, indeed, that it will be an expert government. More like something else to me, and since there are seven vice presidents, it'll look like the government of seven SCOY secretaries. If there were 12, I'd say 12 apostles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u210	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic. Let MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u211	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the people of Serbia, at the beginning, at my fiery baptism, since I am the first MP, I cannot hide the satisfaction that the Vice President or Madam Vice President has given me the floor and that for the first time in my life, since I've been involved in any policy or operational, I can take this speaker and, in this first performance, express that satisfaction. Allow me to introduce myself at the beginning, as I am the first MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. My name is Ljubomir Mucic, a graduate economist by profession and I am an MP for the Socialist Party at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Born in Osecina, I live and work in Valjevo, candidate for MP in front of Ljiga and Mionica, and according to the function I am currently performing, as director of the Department for Construction and Development of the Kolubar County, affected by the earthquake. I can tell you that at this point, next to two other DOS MPs, I represent the Colubary County. I was the president of the first multi-party municipal government in Valjevo, which I have successfully led for seven years, and what the citizens of Valjevo have confirmed in all elections and the election itself for a MP in this parliament. Let me get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u212	I beg your order.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u213	I think I've been polite and cultural and so will I be in the next sessions. Given that I am not engaged in this high policy dealing with party leaders and parties, I am more interested in the Kolubara District and the people of Serbia at all at the moment. It's a good thing after this pay phone, party leaders are mostly in the government, and they left us MPs here to conduct a debate and evaluate the work. Given the exceptional importance of today's session, which is being chosen by the new Serbian government, I would like to point out some important facts and to apostrophe some important issues that the prime minister has not touched, and ask some of the important questions for Serbia, and especially relevant for the Kolubar region, which has suffered many hardships. My first concrete question, with a brief explanation, will the prime minister and the new government respect the electoral will of citizens at local level and will in municipalities where this is not respected allow legally elected committees to choose or retain their leadership? Of the six municipalities of the Kolubar district, the Socialists achieved the majority in three municipalities, DOS only in Valjevo, and the joint opposition, without the name DOS, in two municipalities. Exceptional pressures are being put on SPS committees to resign, in Osecina, Lajkovec, red Lykovec, in order to create an insufficient number of councils for the majority decision-making. Such terror is not the democracy you stand for when it comes to others. A particular problem is the Ub municipality, in which there was a beating or a stick, a revolution, much of which has been said and written in the last three months. Let me just remind you that the relationship of 22 to 18 is in favour of the SPS committee and that the government is formed by forced means, by incurring citizens, at least those from Ubb, to a constitutional session and by retaining the necessary number of SPS committee members, as hostages, to vote. There are two leaderships in this municipality right now. Violently elected, sitting in the municipality, holds the seal and administration and functions through an executive committee that illegally and through violation of the statutes and laws makes decisions, since it does not have most committees for parliamentary decisions. Secondly, the Socialists have the majority and hold sessions, their leadership sitting in the party, without stamps and accompanying services. This kind of two-state has not been recorded anywhere, and I insist that the new government make an urgent decision at the first session, following the constitution, and respects the electoral will of the citizens of Ub municipality, after you have abolished the Ministry of Local Self-Government by a proposed decision. It is certain that this problem should be resolved before new legislation is passed. Well, we're not gonna form two cops, two administrations, and who's gonna pay for all that? Another thing I'd like to say about, which is that the Colubary County, thanks to DOS, has been damaged by four parliamentary mandates compared to the previous assembly. There were three of us in this assembly, and in the past, the former election unit 12, had seven MPs. Your election victory has been valorized through two MPs. It's a big con of voters in this neighborhood, and I don't want it to be rematch to the "red district," as they called it. I think the three of us will work together in the interest of the people of our neighborhood. Starting from the above, my question to the prime minister is -- you're not going to have the same relationship with this area, and is your government going to continue with the initial capital projects in the Kolubar County? First of all, the continuation of the construction of the Valjevo-Loznica railway or the "war lines", as they called it, which is of re-important importance -- the opening of co-operation with the former republics in the west, i.e. with Republika Srpska, BiH, and that I do not keep counting them. Construction of the Kolubara B thermal power plant, as we see current power deficits, is directly related to the construction of the dam and the accumulation, which, with the needs of the thermal power plant, should also enable the water supply of citizens of this district and beyond. In the end, I wouldn't want to, and yet I have to remind you, that in our neighborhood it's said that that rule applies peoplely from where you're from, you know, where you're from, where the other half is from. I'll finish with that. It's no bonding, but that's what the people say. I carry what the people say. You don't mind, I hope. The third problem, which I have to potentiate as the most important, and I left it to an end, because first we forget what is said at the beginning, and that's the problem in my district, there have been accidents of natural, earthquakes, floods like NATO aggressor bombs. My candidacy for MPs came out in an effort to extend the contribution of solidarity, to eliminate the effects of the earthquake hit by the Kolubar district, with an epicenter in the municipality of Milonica, on September 13, 1998, with several hundred earthquakes later, to this day. I must point out that 29,500 objects were damaged and that the estimated damage at the end of December 1998 was about 6.3 billion dinars, or around 900 million marks. About 6,000 objects have been marked for demolition. The greatest happiness in this accident is that there were no human casualties. The National Assembly, with the consent of all political parties of that time called on, passed the law and introduced a contribution to solidarity to eliminate the consequences of the catastrophic earthquake and the development of the Kolubara district. In the previous two years, funds amounting to billions and 930 million dinars have been made, and construction and rehabilitation of about 1,900 residential buildings have been completed, almost half of which are related to the municipality of Milonica. About 13,000 square metres of new school space was built in 18 school facilities and a less damaged recovery was carried out. Many public services facilities have been renovated and I do not keep counting. The second disaster that hit the Valjevski end is the bombing of Krusik, which was destroyed by NATO bombs and where the Serbian government's programme began to rebuild, but after 5 October last year it stopped. The workers expect an answer to the question of what to do next, because this giant built this city, it was the backbone of its economic development. In the end, I think these are just some of the important issues, and for the rest of us, when we discuss new legal projects. We always have good programs, and I want at the end of our term, as long as it takes, I don't really know, that we don't realize that everything else is a dead letter on paper. Don't move the third envelope in which it says, hug the predecessor, because it's an instant signal, write new envelopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u214	The word is Rajko Baralić, followed by MP Sreten Mitrovica. There are 20 other speakers reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u215	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, candidates for Mr. Djindjic's cabinet, citizens of Serbia, respected journalists, no Mr. Lecic, I wanted to defend him a little. Visiting a TV show in Serbia, Mr Lecic overemphasised the provincialisation of the spirit and thus resented a number of Serbian citizens, who took it among other things as an insult. Mr Branislav Lečić is an artist who left his creative and artistic seal in his artistic duration. I belong to those people who don't share grades about him today, in this way and with this intensity. But in the show, in one extreme casual atmosphere, with a glass of whiskey in his hand, Mr Lecic, the future culture minister, addressed the Serbian public and possibly disqualified him in a sense. We can see right through his fingers, and it's about an actor. However, it is also about the future minister. About the actor, of course. There is no Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic here, and two days ago he said a peaceful revolution. There are no gentlemen of the peaceful revolution, whether it's a revolution or not, it's the same as saying cold fire. There's only such a thing in the circus, and it's an illusion. What we're talking about here today, I'd like to say a few words. Several heavy accusations and qualifications were made here at the expense of the prime minister and at the expense of the person who will enter the cabinet of the new government. I won't repeat them. Some of them need to be analyzed. I don't know Mr Joksimovic, but there are difficult qualifications in terms of his professional integrity. It's kind of like a custom that's in force in the Takavesko-Mininska region, when you're elegantly disqualifying someone, and you say, a good and honest man, although in the village where he was born, he's not considered to be one. I also wanted to ask a few questions, Mr. Djindjic. Group 17 plus is a so-called NGO, which in the meantime became a federal government. Well-informed people know that Mr. Zizic is not the president of the government. We know who's leading her. A few days ago, Mr. Predrag Markovic, chairman of the G17 Plus Management Board, said a sentence that Serbia's political and overall political public did not understand well -- we give you 60 days. That's what he means to you and your cabinet. As MPs, we are interested in whether the DOS is in a partnership political relationship with Group 17 plus, whether Group 17 plus a political haven, or whether it has been targeted, whether the group is a control body, whether on behalf of the people's trust has given a mortgage to this group's parliamentary mandates when the president of the organisation is thus, with a great communiqué, in front of the Serbian, political and overall public. We want to criticize what you do in this congregation. The People's Messengers are unobstructed in what they are empowered to do. We do not dispute anyone's right to criticise the government and it is good to have as many critics as possible, but we dispute Mr Predrag Markovic's right to take the deed to popular trust and to put the Government of the Republic of Serbia in that position, regardless of which we will not vote for this government today. It would be good to, with that in mind, give a very precise answer. Mr Batic, a week ago, Vice-President So Cačak and member of the Democratic Party's General Committee, Mr Dusan Drinjakovic, on TV Cačak's show with Mr Velimir Ilic, on the issue of journalist Jasminka Karanac: "Why are you not a national MP to Mr Drinjakovic," he said (quote): "There was everything, there was a public secret as to how much it cost one term". Please, you owe an explanation. Mr. Drinjakovic is not an unserious man, at least that's not how I feel about him. You owe us an explanation and you owe this people's assembly an explanation about that statement. According to its structure, political structure, the DOS coalition will rule in the following way, or -- the essence and the government will make up the Democratic Party, the army in that government, is the Civil Union. I'd also like to say a few things about that. The civil union of Serbia is a minor political organisation, an organisation without a clear political programme and a social basis, without political infrastructure and an electoral body. What did she deserve such a high rating in a coalition that will be given power in Serbia today? Has such a position been qualified by the relativization of NATO aggression on our country or by some other actions and actions and inaction over the past few years? Of course, we will not and do not have the right to deal with personal issues in the government that will be elected today. It's your right, Mr. Djindjic, and the parliamentary groups you control. But we will do everything we can and we will know that everything that is in Serbia's citizens' interest for this speaker is public and that we are facing arguments for this speaker, and we hope that at those moments when the level of argument, regardless of who lists them, from which parliamentary club, will overcome the arguments that you yourself have, that, as you once did, you will vote for such proposals and such initiatives. If it doesn't come to this, we'll have the impression that you don't want power, you want triumphalism. I sincerely hope you don't want to. A few days ago at the home of a prominent Chacan, a 30-year-old printer, with a modest printing press, from which his family and several other families live, they wrote messages in large black letters "Death to the Killers - You are on the list", with large signs of Resistance, a total of twenty such messages. Right now, let me say that the defendants of this incident have been caught. Will you make Serbian citizens feel safe about this? Fascism began with Hitler’s youth marking Jewish houses in 1939, and several months or years later they were destroyed, robbed, and burned. It is the impression that the government, in its concept and form, is practically the government of the metropolis, except for Mr. Pradic, who is from the interior, and two or three people, all the rest are people who live and work in Belgrade for a long time. Is the regional representation of Serbia in this government a real interest, and did you have any consultations and any agreements in this regard? I want to believe that this government will work in the interest of the Serbian people. And it will work in the interest of the Serbian people if it is clearly determined according to war damage and clearly determined according to the delivery of any Serbian citizen to The Hague. We don't have the right to deliver anyone to be tried outside the country of origin. Mr. Perisic, will you vote for General Ratko Mladic to be delivered to The Hague? Mr. Obradovic, will you vote for General Ratko Mladic to be delivered to The Hague? Who's gonna stand in front of the dishwasher tomorrow if that happens? I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u216	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u217	My name is Happy Mitrovica, and for those of you who don't know me, I'll say something in short lines. I come from Kosovo County, I'm an SPS MP, otherwise I live in Caglavica. That's five kilometers from downtown Pristina. Why am I saying this? Because the Serb people of Cosmeta are not mentioned at all in the presentation of future Prime Minister Djindjic. The fear of the Serb people is justified after the federal elections and after the new prime minister of the republic's government is presented, it will be even greater. After the federal elections, since 6 November, no federal delegation has come to Kosovo and Metohija, nor has any delegation come to ask how the Serb people live in Kosovo. Will that be so with representatives of the Republic government? In a pre-election campaign for the republican elections, I remind the future prime minister, that DOS representatives, who campaigned on behalf of the DOS, have called on him to call if we do not vote for DOS that the future prime minister will abolish all donations to Serbs in Cosmet. Because the Serbian people in Cosmet still have a lot of confidence in the SPS and give full confidence to SPS representatives. This was proven by the elections, gentlemen, and the people of Cosmet knows, regardless of all the troubles that have hit him, who is leading the right policy and who is leading the right policy towards the Serbian people. Mr. Prime Minister's presentation, I quote, changed the circumstances of Albanians from Kosovo, economic and human interests today and in the future you can only create in co-operation with Serbia and through Serbia. I hope this is an administrative mistake, that the future prime minister does not think that Albanians will co-operate with the state of Serbia, because they are also citizens of the state of Serbia. They were both human and economic interests. Albanians also enjoyed and accepted all economic interests during the SPS rule. Under the cover of exorcisms from work in the 1990s, they opened private companies and private businesses and made the biggest economic boom in the history of the Albanian people. They accepted everything in their interest, and they did not accept what they needed to accept in the state's interest and respect the state of Serbia, as their country. The situation in Cosmet today is very difficult. Under the presence of 50,000 so-called The peace forces, KFOR soldiers and UNMIK police are the largest genocide in the history of the Serb people. Some 260 Serbs and Montenegrins, about 100,000 Muslims, Roma, Gorans and other non-Albanians, were expelled or exiled. An even bigger tragedy is that about four thousand were killed, kidnapped or wounded. Over 50,000 economic companies, ownership of the Serb and Montenegrin population, were robbed and destroyed. And today, with the presence of the so-called KFOR peacemaker and UNMIK police, the property and personal security of Serbs in Cosmet is limited. Freedom of movement is limited. In order to reach administrative borders, we must move only with the presence, with KFOR or UNMIK police escorts. But to us politicians, who are in front of the SPS, they end it. And Serbia mentions the assistance the International Community will give if democratic forces come to power. Here they come. They've been on Cosmet for a year and a half, and we don't see what economic aid they've given there so far, no factories, no institutions, it's all been robbed, and to this day, a year and a half after that, nothing works. The issue of amnesty - we agree that those Albanian prisoners, when they pass the court of justice and find themselves not guilty, that they are released, or that those who have not committed major crimes are amnesty, but why not take advantage of the opportunity to, when we let Albanian prisoners, ask to release so many Serbs, who are imprisoned if they are alive. If one Flora Brovina, who is the protector of human rights, is released, why not release Dr. Tomanovic, Dr. Todorovski, who treated both Serbs and Albanians before the war, before they were kidnapped. There's no mention of what's going to happen to about 350,000 displaced persons from Cosmet. The situation is very alarming. I must stress that the displaced people of Cosmeta have been very hard admitted to most parts of Serbia. Their life in collective housing is very difficult. Their water is being cut, their electricity is being cut, they're being charged with everything that's been going on and what's going on in the premises, that because of us in Kosovo, they bombed Belgrade, that that's why Nis and all the other cities were bombed. In the end, I want to warn the government and this authority that has come, not to forget -- every authority that has come, and it has fallen because of Kosovo. That is why I warn you - do not forget Kosovo, because Kosovo is an indication of how you work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u218	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u219	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, my name is Nebojsa Jovic, the MP of the SPS from Kursumlia, a small town in southern Serbia, which in the past was called "ADSINES" (end of the world). I belong to a group of people who have struggled for years not to be so, regardless of the politics and color of that policy. In the local elections on September 24th, the people in us recognized people, honest, honest and able to make the city more beautiful, better and richer. We got that election convincingly. It was not a fight for better authority, but for better tomorrow for our citizens and our children, and we had opponents of all colors, we fought against all parties, former high-ranking SK officials, groups of citizens, former students of Kumrovska School, only in other suits and coats. We formed the Assembly of the Municipality, according to the will of the citizens, rolled up our sleeves and began to resolve issues of vital importance for our city, and then democracy took place on October 5, 2000. Crisis headquarters, political commissioners, threats, blackmail, pressure on the council to resign, although there are only four members of the Assembly of 37 DOS. Pressure on management in business institutions, and according to political commitment, does not matter whether someone is successful or unsuccessful. That's what the communists did in 1946, so now their descendants, and no one else at all. The appearance of Mr Djindjic on RTS at the time of the January 13th, 2001, and the construction of such procedures gives us hope that it will stop and that people will respect the will of the people, but only hope for now. DS members from Nis, I don't know if they have a commissary calling, coming into our city looking for resignations from leading people in the Wood-Indian combination "Coopalnik", which employs 1,700 workers. Also, they are seeking a meeting with the president of the SO, asking him to resign, and if he does not, the government of the Republic of Serbia will introduce temporary measures, and the Assembly will call early elections. Is that a priority? Why and for what? Democracy, nothing. So I wonder, which one of you doctored on the subject of "Democracy dictatorship"? It's illogical, but unfortunately, it's possible. Do you gentlemen from 18 parties think this will last forever? I have come to this assembly to represent the interests of all citizens, regardless of their political commitment, to contribute, as a graduate economist, with experience, to solving the problem of Toplicia and Serbia in general. I want cooperation, not conflicts. However, if it continues with "democracy", then I wonder if anyone thinks that this country will be better off without opposition municipalities, without opposition in the Republic and the Federal Parliament, and then do you think that the institutions of the system should be named - DOS alliance, DOS working people's union, DOS youth alliance, DOS union, etc.? I would like to say a few words about corruption and crime, because it has only been written and spoken of lately, and that is also mentioned in the exhibition of Prime Minister Djindjic. We, downstairs in the poor part of the Republic, agree that all those who are proven to be criminals and profiteers go to jail, but all of them, that it is not a political issue, so members of a political group can own factories, private enterprises, which are measured by millions, and nobody writes or speaks about it, and there are blue and yellow and green. So, properly deployed. I ask that the government of the Republic of Serbia be determined on the matter of Hungarian self-government in Vojvodina. Because the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Kasa is seeking the autonomy of the Vojvodina, the personal autonomy of Hungary and regional autonomy in the middle, where the Hungarians are the majority. What will happen to Serbia or if the same or similar autonomy is sought tomorrow by Albanians in southern Serbia, Muslims, Bulgarians, Croats, Slovaks and all others where the majority are? Did someone promise them who it was by name and last name? In the end, we have nothing left to fear in Kursumlia. They've been through the NATO bomb googoto for 78 days killing our youth, our children, destroying bridges and houses, destroying our souls. I ask that the government be determined by NATO aggression. Kurzumlija, as one of the most underdeveloped municipalities, by the space of the fourth in Serbia, and with only 23,000 people, with nearly 10,000 refugees, with 102km of administrative border towards Kosovo, expects the assembly and this government to understand the importance of the space. I invite you all to come south to Serbia, to help us, to gather ranks, not to divide, not to let this country run out of South, because otherwise Serbia will be... And that means the last stop or the end of the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u220	There is a word from the MP Đuro Lazic and then from the MP Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u221	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, honourable Mr Djindjic, candidates for members of the government, spoke to me, as I was greatly encouraged by two sentences in the first condition from the mandate's presentation of the general political stability in the region. It is said, in addition to these relations with Montenegro, that it is necessary to move to definitely curb terrorism in southern Serbia. I agree with that, but if it is said that we should move towards a definitive repression of terrorism in southern Serbia, it means that the activity has already begun and should be completed. With the fact that I know the opportunities below, because I am experiencing circumstances from Kosovo and Metohija, from a region directly bordering the region, the Pcinian district, I know the situation and no effects have been achieved in the fight against terrorists in southern Serbia in the area of the Presevo municipality, Bujanovska and the Medvedja municipality. Even in the performances of some officials, it is said that it is a matter of stationing Cypriot terrorists in the Homeland Security Zone. It's only selling fog to citizens, terrorists have gone deep into central Serbia's territory, or far from the security zone, which was determined by Resolution 1244, or the Kumanov Agreement. Mr. Prime Minister, and Vice-President Covic, and Mrs. Commissioner for Informing Matic and Federal Interior Minister tour the area and many others. It is good that both the federal and the republican government is in Bujanovac, but there are no effects on the terrorist elimination plan in the area, from part of the territory of southern Serbia. What does that mean? So one indecision in the fight against terrorists in the territory, which is under our jurisdiction. It is said that we will solve this problem and drive the terrorists through democratic means by negotiation. What black democratic problem-solving with terrorists, with those thousands and thousands of Serbs and powerless old men, women and children killing, massacred, applied the most beastly methods that were overcome by Auschwitz and many camps from World War II? To negotiate with them and solve problems with dialogue and enter our territory? No talking. They've already reached the Bujanovac. As the talks take place, negotiations in the presence of the so-called international forces, terrorists are being buried, mobilized in Kosovo and Metohija, bringing people here, and the population in these villages, or municipalities in southern Serbia. I am extremely familiar with the mentality of these people, and given the previous experience and attempts by the government of the Republic of Serbia to resolve the political issue of Kosovo and Metohija in a democratic manner and through the talks, a delegation from the government of the Republic of Serbia went to Pristina twenty times to talk to the leaders of the Cypriot parties and never came. Because they don't care about talking to anyone from Serbia. They have a clearly defined goal, whether it was the Thaci or Rugova option, they have a clear goal -- independent Kosovo and a creation in the great Albania's perspective. In the area of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, there are two Shipatarian parties, which in their programme published in 1996 and early 1997, drew a map and a task to attach these three municipalities to Kosovo - the republic, which is their basic programme task. Therefore, it is also clear that the definition of those Shipars in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji is clear. They were leaving to see if the terrorists had complied with the deal, if they'd raised the checkpoints. What black deal, what black respect? They just took off the Albanian flag that stormed into Trnovec and built a bunker instead of a checkpoint. And our officials go, watch from the bottom and watch. They seem to be used to watching someone lately. Mrs. Matic speaks to these Shiptars, terrorists, invites them down to talk, to settle the problem peacefully, to get off the mountains, because she says - it's cold, come talk, to solve the problem. She was worried that the terrorists might catch a cold on the mountains. They go down to civilian daytime, dress uniforms at night, block roads, harass the Serb people from Kosovo and Metohija, the only way out of the way, the relation of Bujanovac-Gjilana via Kosovo Kamenica and the other via Presevo. Instead of these terrorist checkpoints, they are using our indecisiveness, so they have set up a new terrorist checkpoint on a new approach to Presevo, in the village of Crvenkovski, again on the territory that is under our authority, so that a significant Serb Corps, more than 40,000 Serbs from the Pomorava, have totally brought into the environment, i.e. into the ghetto. I think both the prime minister and future members of the government on the agenda, on the basis of a charge with terrorists, must take more vigorous measures. I'm glad the prime minister predicted it in one part of his exposé, but I'd like it to be realized. Because we must never interfere with the mind of the goals of the Ship's Separatists and terrorists. Their goal now is to expand the area they control, to cut our rails, because even during World War II, their goal was that. Many of our people died fighting for the defense of these southern railways and now the highway, which is our link to Greece. Their goal is to get closer to Kumanov's cauldron. We need to know these facts when we are making a plan to protect our territory and free our roads and communicate our people who have remained in Kosovo and Metohija, believing in this country, remain there and represent the Serbian deed in those areas with their lives. What is happening, which has particularly affected me, I do not believe that the lapus, in the same paragraph, is in the seat of the prime minister, it is said -- finding a way of co-existence between Serbia and Kosovo. For me, this means Kosovo's unpredictability as an integral part of Serbia. The co-existence of Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia means something else, so Kosovo is out of Serbia. This view means further disturbance of these people and the loss of faith in their country. We need to know one fact, what happened in Kosovo and Metohija, and how many crimes were committed by the Cypriot terrorists against whom our security forces had to react. Let's not forget one moment, Klecka, where the living people are burned and even the children. It should not be forgotten that Lake Radonjic, also where many of our people have been butchered, then the village of Ugljara, where a tomb of killed and massacred Serbs was found during the presence of a peace force, i.e. an American contingent. In addition to all these Zulus, villains, Shiparian terrorists as a people survive, and we don't have enough energy to eliminate these terrorist gangs from the space that's under our jurisdiction. I believe that Kosovo and Metohija, although standing here in an exposé - Kosovo, will not be erased from our Serbian consciousness, that we will preserve it. Because if we delete Kosovo from our consciousness and move away from Serbia's borders, from Serbia's framework, we will make a sin against both ancestors and descendants. A dozen centuries of Kosovo and Metohija were what Serbia was. If we give up, then we commit a great sin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u222	The word has a National MP, Stevo Dragisic. Let Zoran Radovanovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, when the prime minister for the composition of the Republic government in his opening statement said that the programme of the future government, in fact, the pre-election programme of DOS last December, we assumed that what he told us in that hour would be the pre-election pamphlet that DOS probably used in the election campaign. We expected Mr Djindjic's exposés to be a concreteisation of pre-election promises, that in his exposé, already in his position, future Prime Minister, he would explain to his voters, as well as to all Serbian citizens who wanted to hear, how the Republic government would implement those pre-election promises that the DOS made to its voters, or citizens in the election campaign. Instead, we've got a pre-election pamphlet. It is not possible to see from this exposé what are the main guidelines of the future policy to be led by the Republic government. We can't see how all those promises will be realized, even the promises that were made here for the first time. This exposé represents, therefore, only a mini list of the Republic government's intentions, as Mr Djindjic himself said - this government is a government of great intentions. Whether it will succeed its intentions to realize and how successful it will be, it will be seen very soon. It will be seen in the first moves the ministers make in their portfolios, according to the first decisions the government will make from its jurisdiction and under the first draft laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will submit to the Republic of Serbia for adoption. Then we will know exactly which direction the internal policy in our country will move, in which direction will solve our biggest problems that we face. Despite all these criticisms, however, what Mr Djindjic told us and later had the opportunity to read, it can be called the exposé of the future government. The mandate says the government should provide several essential conditions for the country's credibility. The first condition is general political stability in the region. Among other things, it means finding a way of co-existence between Serbia and Kosovo. This formulation concludes that the future government sees Serbia and Kosovo as two independent state entities, which will only have to live side by side because they are geographically next to each other and that future co-existence must be arranged in the best possible way. This formulation does not leave room for a different conclusion, but that the perspective foresees that the fact that, unfortunately, today is so, and formally legalises through future decisions and the relationship of the Republic government with this issue will be. It is true that Kosovo today is out of our state sovereignty. The Republic of Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia do not exercise any effective authority. It is impossible to implement the country's laws on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. That's why this territory is not under our state sovereignty. In addition, Kosovo and Metohija are under foreign occupation. As long as that is the situation, the actual state, Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija are literally separate entities. However, the legal situation is quite different. The legal situation is still such that Kosovo is still an integral part of the SR of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia. And as long as the legal situation is as it is, it gives us hope and a chance that one day, in perspective, when circumstances change, we will be able to regain our state sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija. But if the Government of the Republic of Serbia is still considering co-existence of two different and separate state entities, then we can expect the legal situation to change, that, under some agreements, negotiations, trade, blackmail, the solution to change the legal situation, that Kosovo and Metohija will also get the formal status of an independent territory, or an independent state entity towards Serbia. In this, my biggest concern to the future government on resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems is that it is now suggesting that Kosovo and Metohija will be formally separated from the composition of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, the government is said to tell Albanians the following -- circumstances have changed and your economic and human interests from today can only be achieved in co-operation with Serbia and through Serbia. Who's going to make them cooperate with you now, with the future Republic government? What is this force that will force them to do? On what basis do you base your belief that they will indeed do so? So, why do you think that their economic and human interests could not have been realized before, through Serbia, through the legal institutions of the Republic of Serbia over the past few years? Do you think it was impossible for them or was it part of their strategy to gain independence from Kosovo and Metohija? I think it was this other thing. They never wanted to consider their position in the country with the republican authorities, nor with the federal authorities of Yugoslavia, but that they had an idea of their own way. They had great help from the Western forces. This also showed the bombing of the Republic of Serbia, the bombing of the SR Yugoslavia in 1999. This was the most concrete indicator that the West stands by Albanian aspirations in Kosovo and Metohija. Do you think the result of what happened in Kosovo and Metohija, that the relationship between Shipara and Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija towards our country, was a relationship to the previous regime? No, I don't. It's a delusion. The best proof that this is a delusion is also what is happening in Montenegro now. Milo Djukanovic, when winning his presidency, and years later, insisted that Montenegro wants to live in SR Yugoslavia, but that it cannot live because of Slobodan Milosevic. That the dictatorial regime of Slobodan Milosevic was the main obstacle to Serbia-Montenegro's common life. You, then, as the opposition party, as leaders of the opposition, said if you were to rule Serbia, that the issues with Montenegro and Milo Djukanovic would be resolved at the same time. Here, now you're in power, having an open secession problem. A referendum on Montenegro's independence is now being announced. No more Milosevic, no more dictatorial regime of Slobodan Milosevic, according to Milo Djukanovic. It is now a new, democratic power, a power wanted by Milo Djukanovic. Now at the head of the Republic government, Zoran Djindjic, the man who worked with him most closely, is of you all the opposition who are now sitting here while he was in opposition. However, Mil Djukanovic's intentions, the regime in Montenegro, proved to be all the time separatist. So it is not the problem in Serbia, nor in the regime in Serbia, but in the intentions of the Montenegrin regime and in the intentions of Albanians, i.e. Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija. You can't make them, they don't want to. They want their independent state and you have to admit it to yourself. As part of your relationship with Kosovo and all the problems in Kosovo and Metohija, you say there will be a co-existence of terrorism at the same time. Terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija appeared two years ago. The terrorism is now being transferred to municipalities behind the administrative border of Kosovo and Metohija: Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo. Some new terrorist organization, Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Bear, is now conducting terrorist actions here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u224	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u225	Those terrorist actions started three months ago, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, three months ago. In those three months, they have violated international norms, those standards guaranteed by our country, as signatories, and the countries of the NATO Pact. You said we'd negotiate, not forcefully solve the problem, but negotiate. You've been negotiating for three months, and nothing's happening. Here, yesterday's news reported that new terrorist actions have been restored. Then what is this uncompromising repression of terrorism? What this uncompromisingness is all about. You will uncompromisingly talk. Based on what? Where's your back, where's your negotiation platform? When you negotiate with someone, you are presumed to be equal in those negotiations, that you have some power behind you. You don't have that power. You don't have it because you're not negotiating with the Shiptars, you're negotiating with their protectors, with the NATO Pact, or whatever the NATO pact is, no matter what. You're negotiating with those people you've been agreeing to help you bring down the regime you've been up against. How can you make a deal with them now? He can't. It's impossible. Terrorism in the south of Serbia will escalate and you will not be able to prevent it. You can deal with them. We're strong enough, we're capable enough, so you can deal with terrorism, both in Preshevo and in Bujanovac, anywhere, where you might still show up. You won't be able to negotiate anything, I guess in those three months you've been able to figure it out. What might be called a second point...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u226	I'm asking you to bring an end to the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u227	I will, if you'll allow me, I'll bring the end very soon. Just once again, I remind you that the discussion is unlimited. That's what we found at the beginning of the debate. It was unanimously voted, I was present.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u228	That's the question we discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u229	That doesn't mean I'm gonna be talking all night. I'll end up very soon, just reminding you of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u230	I know you won't be all night, but we've discussed the matter of limitations. If you want, you can make an insight into the stenographic notes. Please do not call on this, but to bring the discussion to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u231	No need, I remember very well what you asked. That we don't waste time, that I finish this, that another MP speaks. The second, very important point of this exposé is, as you said, keeping an account with the former regime. It's said -- we need to bring down criminal accounts and abuses from the past 10 years. In those ten years, part of the regime was also some people who are now sitting in government. For example, Nebojsa Covic, of those 10 years, has been part of the regime for seven years. So he spent most of his political standing as part of the regime in those 10 years. Then, from the age of 10, four years New Democracy was part of the regime, from 1994 to 1998. If everything checks out for those 10 years, please report to us on what Nebojsa Covic and what members of New Democracy have been doing in those 10 years, as part of the regime. How much of their responsibility for everything you said was bad in those 10 years. I'd like to hear it from you, as the then Prime Minister of the Republic, how much your vice presidents or ministers have spent for the past 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u232	Mr. Dragisic, I warn you, you've been too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u233	Then, you say that justice must be brought to those who have tarnished our country and nation, committing crimes against children, women, and hiding above the god's patriotic mission. This is obviously about co-operation with The Hague tribunal, or the war crimes trial. The Hague tribunal is a major problem facing DOS, not to say the Democratic opposition, it's pointless, you're already in power. So, DOS. Your opinions differ in DOS on co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It seems to me, apart from Mr. Korac and the foreign minister and perhaps some other rare exception, no one has openly declared that there is a need for co-operation with The Hague. Yes, you did, I think, say yesterday that no price is too high, if that means we're entering Europe. The president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has, at least so far, tried to convince us that he is against extradition to The Hague court, anyone who is a suspect. However, the question of members of your government is again being raised. It is speculated that the vice president, Mr. Perisic, may be on one of the secret indictments. It will be interesting to see what happens if Mr. Perisic is indeed one of those whose Hague extradition requires. Are you going to judge him here, the government's position on this matter, or are you going to hand him over to The Hague? Is it possible that in the future Republic government there might be someone on the secret indictment of The Hague? This question will seem to affect your differences within DOS and to speed up as soon as possible to the light of day. The question is, how are you going to get out of all this?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u234	Mr. Dragisic, I have to warn you for the second time. You've been over time for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u235	One more minute. Since Mr. President warns me, I will shorten what I intended to say. Reforms are the third pillar of this exposé, which, in fact, is not spoken of at all. The only exact data that the president, future Prime Minister, presented, says the following -- we will reduce the number of employees in the state administration, for starters, at least 20%. In a few sentences before that, he said there were 400,000 people in the state administration. It says -- out of the total number of employees, 400,000 people are paid out of the state budget, out of the budget. What's that? It's a state administration. You only think about the chiefs of staff, the secretaries of the government. What's that? Everything that's paid out of the budget, it's on the government's expense, it's on the national coat of arms, it's the state administration. The administration isn't just a secretary in the cabinet. You wrote 400,000, 20% of it is 80,000. You come out, please, and explain. Maybe I'm wrong, but that's what it says in your exposé. If the state administration is going to get 80% of people fired, I ask you a question, how many people are going to get fired on privatisation, how many extra labors are there?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u236	Mr. Dragosic, you're really making me take away your word. Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u237	And with one more sentence, you said today, that this day could be called October 6th symbolically. If today is October 6th, then everything that happened from October 5th to the night between October 5th and October 6. There was a lot going on that night. Crisis headquarters have been formed that have seized the powers of state authorities, the powers of directors, the competence of some institutions, the hectics have been hacked into the National Bank of Yugoslavia, threatened some people, carried out a lot of things that should have been sanctioned according to what you promised. The night between October 5th and 6th was the hardest night in which Serbia has been in the last 10 years. I hope the morning that's due to dawn won't get any worse. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u238	The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u239	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Djindjic and the members of the Chamber in an announcement, I wanted to tell you, first of all, that I should say something, and then move on to those things that I wanted to say today. I like the future prime minister, or Prime Minister, because DOS has the right majority to vote, Mr Djindjic likes him for two things. The first thing is she has the most beautiful name in the world, her name is Zoran, like me. The second thing, when I heard the program, and the propo of my friends from the SPS who wanted to get away from the SPS better, I was walking here in the first break, asking how to get to DOS, and then these little older, more serious politicians told me, son, don't rush, there's a lot of them, there's gonna be a fight, the program's good, but there's no one to implement it. Then we with our 37 MPs, with the help of some more people here, will build a government, and we will all go to games for free and hang out on sports grounds. Normally, I'm also joking about membership, I'm kidding about the program, I'm not kidding about the name, and while we're at the game, at the end of last year, since I was talking about sports and I listened very carefully to you fellows when I talked about sports two days ago, there was a game before the end of the year, which had two half-times. The first half was September 24th and the second half was December 23rd. At these two games, we socialists got two yellow cards. We've worked for the past 10 years the way we've done, the people gave us the yellow charts, and there's been another thing that's happened. On the half-time of October 5th, although the people were judges, players ran into the field, people on the ground, and then they beat these people a little bit, they formed a crisis, an overcrisis, a crisis headquarters, who shared justice on their own. These things are normally not good for the development of sports, so two days ago I insisted that we leave the new government to the Ministry of Sports, because we Socialists will, unless you leave us this Ministry of Sports and Youth, punished with those two yellow charts, to warm ourselves up for the upcoming political games. We've already printed out the stickers and it's over, and it's over, just to see who we're going to put on the picture of these presidents, the prime minister, so if you don't arrest us all, we're going to stick them all over Serbia. This will develop physical culture and sport at all. I think I can help with that, because, from what I understand, we're all gonna be arrested, and the propo during World War II Jews, and they're gonna put red ribbons here, so at least people know who the Socialists are, so they don't all turn out to be socialists. Since we're a little bit more irradiated these days, or earlier in the year, we can use that sign, the yellow sign, for radiation, to paint it red, so we can put it on the arm, so it'll be a red or an aired socialist, and then it'll be easier to look for and find it on the street. The progress of medicine, so from my work, the discovery of the human genome has allowed for a lot, much longer, so 6 months for the Ministry of Ecology and it's not such a long period to form, because the half-life of plutonium lasts about 4.5 million years. Maybe we'll call the children soon, the male children of Pluto, and the female children of Uranus. These socialists of mine, who have gone and rushed better and faster to you, I ask you to receive them all, urgently, because they have helped us a lot, so they'll probably help you, too. So, that's the treasure, that's the commercial, the treasure of Hissar that we leave to you. Now I'd like to remind Mr. Djindjic of two or three things. In 1994, when Markale was a direct cause for the attack on Serbs, I think the GSS people then condemned the Serb beast attack on Muslims. Two years later, there were no Serb attacks on Muslims. A while ago, it turned out that Racak was a cause for attack on Serbs, so then there was no truth in it again. I ask the question, won't tomorrow, in the interest of this country, of our common state of Serbia and Yugoslavia, be you and the police minister sending the police to respond to the dangerous provocations of terrorists, whether someone from the GSS or the other party is going to write a letter and report you, or to the government to someone third, and then it turns out that it was just a provocation of the Cypriot terrorists against the Serbs. To return to sports, I think yesterday and the Football Federation of Serbia and JAZAS sent letters to the prime minister, or the former government, to reconsider the Ministry of Sports. If you look that we as a country last year in total team sports were between 12th and 17th places and if, apart from selling weapons and drugs as illegal jobs, after oil deals, sport is the biggest business. I think Serbia deserves to have that ministry. In France, they were doing an experiment, where, to call it, in delinquent neighborhoods, they formed sports centres and over 60% were reduced delinquency in those same neighborhoods. As the Ex Minister of Information said, Mr. Vukic, when he called for a time of information from the previous period, since a good part of you is not used to reading "Politics", "The Battle", "Express", because when we were in power there was no freedom of the press, because there were "Blic", "Glass", "The Witness", "Telegraph", "Today", "Time" and other newspapers, in today's "Politics" on the fifth-sixth page you have seven-eight titles, where they say: in Great Britain - the resignation of the Minister, resignations and scandals in Japan, in Russia the power of the shadow, the public prosecutor protects criminals in the Slovenian judiciary, Janša plants bombs. So we're not as black as we think we are. We're a little more red, and by the government's composition, we're all a little socialist, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u240	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I was mentioned by Mr Radovanovic, I must say that speaking about the media, I did not commend "Politics" and I did not say anything good about "Politics" in the previous period, because "Politics" in the previous period is the same as today. There's no difference there. I can hardly read "Politics" for as long as I've been old enough to notice any difference in the writing of "Politics." She was always the same. It's always been a regime. Even when it was regimeally recently, it was primarily julovic and somewhat socialist, and now it's dosovna, perhaps a little more Djindjic than Kostunica. Some other leaves vice versa, but nothing essentially changes that. Something else, as far as the media situation is concerned, is true, and we'd have to point that out. It is an opportunity for people who want to understand it or to see the danger that Serbia will face in the coming months, which is the fact that there are no alternative media, no possibility of someone running a different policy than the one it advocates DOS, nor are you able to provide an answer to what the DOS claims are, not just claims but often forgeries, lies, intrigues, etc. Mr. President, since I wasn't there when you spoke to Mr. Seselj and Nikolic, I'm sorry if you understood that I said I was head of the parliamentary group. I didn't say that from this phone booth or you. I said they went to a press conference. I signed up first to talk, and I think that was reason enough to talk. I don't see what the problem would be, because even if I spoke longer than usual, and I'd say twice if I had stepped up as head of the parliamentary group, so I'd ask you to keep that in mind. I would also point to the fact that immediately after my speech, you noticed that DOS MPs are nervous about extending the time I used, so I would say that they are nervous primarily because of their rudeness or what Mr Djindjic called democratic transparency. It's this democratic transparency. Anyone who thinks differently, anyone who wants to say something different, means democratically transparent, and in the first case, they will earn and shout, and later they will be served and used by baggers, rifles or whatever it takes to confirm their democratic transparency.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u242	The word has a Free Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u243	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow Members and fellow Members, I am pleased that Mr. Chairman has corrected his failure. My name is Slobodan Tomovic, but of course Mr. Martian, as a sad president, has the right not to know. I sincerely hope he corrects that ignorance. I would oppose certain claims, findings, and definitions that were made in this exposé. Since I'm an engineer by basic education, I'm looking for a unit of measures for every qualification. Here in the first paragraph, it is said that the degree of criminalization of society is very high, so I ask, what is the unit of measures? Because if we take the number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants for a unit of measures, then things are like this - in Serbia the number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants is 1,180, in Slovenia 1,830, and in Bulgaria 2,998. Furthermore, in Serbia, for example. The crimes against property are about 747, and the weight is 100,000 inhabitants, in Slovakia 2.231. In Serbia, the number of crimes with elements of violence is 79, in Slovakia 198. The crimes of minors are 133 in Serbia and 218 in Slovenia. The number of home invasions in Serbia is 84, and in Germany 262 and the final number of stolen vehicles in Serbia is 81, in Slovenia 158, in Slovakia 775, in the Czech Republic580, in Great Britain 605 etc. This is because we see what a unit is when we define a qualification of how much it is, and probably illustrative enough to say that maybe the devil isn't as black as he looks. The second reason for my report is that as someone who has at least performed in the last three months, the truth with one-third of the role of the Ministry of Interior, I want to protect the members of the MUP from the flat-rate qualifications that are given and in this exposé, when it comes to corruption, and especially in a pesorative context when it comes to the members of the MUP. My dear colleagues and colleagues, the MUP primarily makes up a set of people, craftsmen, professionals, honest and honest people, who are doing their current tasks very securely, work in the Land Area of Security, and all others who were put before them, from the fight against terrorism in Kosovo, and beyond. So, at the very least, it's tasteless, undosed and flatulent, unless there's some evil intention behind it, talking about these people like that. We can have different tastes, about the administration, about the resorts, and that's a different story, but when we talk about corruption, we can't label that whole ministry. We have to say specifically -- who, when, where and what. When it comes to these five conditions listed in the country's accelerated development function, one of the qualifications, that one of the conditions is personal and property security, it is said as if that was not at all. It's very hard and rigid this formulation. Because if it wasn't for personal and property security, you gentlemen wouldn't be sitting in these benches. Not most of us. Therefore, it can always be better than anything, and let's make it better, but let's not talk like Red Kummers that it all starts with us and that everything should be measured by our criteria and our arches. As far as development is concerned, I give priority to what is said - quality traffic infrastructure - energy and energy. Without it, there is no industrial development, and at least what is further called traffic. Traffic yes, but as one logical upgrade to what precedes the beginning of everything. So the house can be built from the roof, but it's probably a technology so far unknown. As for the conditions that say we need a qualified and reliable workforce, I know what qualified labour means. I'd like someone to explain to me later what is meant by a reliable workforce. What exactly is that supposed to mean? But in relation to this condition, I would prefer a different condition, which would have to find its place in the exposé, which is the transformation and revitalization of large systems such as the flag, the Bor, etc. Where we have the most unemployed, there we have, so to speak, the hubs of social misery and social crisis. There are some things we need to solve, either by finding alternative programmes, or by finding diversified programs in relation to technologies that are represented, by retraining the workforce, etc. That's what we have to do. And we say we don't do witch hunting. And in the exposé, we say in a very decadent way -- what we're going to do in dealing with the previous regime, and we're pleased that in this part, which is a developmental part, we say -- strategic priority is education of the workforce for the new economy. It's not a strategic priority. The strategic priority is to see what are the programs that will employ this workforce, what can be derived from these technologies yet, how can these technologies be improved, who do all this work with? That's the strategic side. And when we do, then we'll re-qualify the workforce and then we'll see about that. It is a little confusing that in one serious document, such as the exposé, it is said - what we expect are large external investments in the next period, investments in agriculture, etc. Please, gentlemen, expectations are one thing, but we have to say, what will it expect? We have to, when we talk about it and when we're making a program to answer the most important questions, which are -- who, when, what and how? We can't say -- we expect, we have to see how we expect, what's going to happen, what are we going to do about it? So we're very clear about how we're going to deal with it. In this part where we're talking about development, we're expecting, we're going to see, we're going to try, and I think it has to be developed and it has to be clearer. So the program has to say how we're going to get rid of the energy. There's got to be a way of saying what we're gonna do with the gas. Today, that's our problem. If cold days last, it will be a terrible problem, which will lead to the destabilization of the power system. I'm afraid, therefore, Mr. Djindjic, that you'll take the risk of saying in the exposé that there will be enough electricity. Instead of just making a remont, because that will improve the stability of the power system, and small production, but the electricity won't be enough, we'll have to import it, so much more if hydrological opportunities are worse, so much more if there's no gas. With the remont, we need to build new capacities. It has to find its place in the exposé. Otherwise, it'll all come down to expectations, and I don't think anyone else will do it for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u244	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u245	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am Milos Nesovic, an MP in front of the SPS, who doesn't know me, to the new democratic DOS government I was the general director of Telekom Sr., and after that, I was deployed as a reference officer in Telekom Sr., a lower reference officer. I have to tell you another pearl - in order to replace the general director of the PTT Public Enterprise of Serbia, Mr. Alexa Jokic, I had to find a way and the Public Enterprise of PTT Traffic of Serbia has been declared to be in liquidation or bankruptcy, I do not know exactly, so the new director is listed either as a bankruptcy manager, i.e. director or liquidator. It was forgotten that Serbia's Post had a tradition of 160 years, it was forgotten that in 1874, the post office of Serbia in Geneva, with 19 powers, participated in the creation of a world postage alliance. Today, the international community laughs at such a process and move. Mr Djindjic, as prime minister, also spoke about traffic, so let me also say a few words about Telekom Srbija, who has recently been extremely attacked by DOS authorities and we often read very negative things in the newspaper. Telekom Srbija, you know, I'm not going to talk about the action agreement, because I didn't even participate in it, I came to the CEO, so when it was all over, and I just remind you that the Italians bought 29% of the capital, that the Greeks participated with 20% of the capital, and of course, the public company PTT Serbia, or the Government, with 51% of the shares. We can say very openly, and I am proud of it, that in three years Telekom Srbija invested in the development of 670 million DM, that there were about a million and nine hundred thousand fixed subscribers in the formation of Telekom Srbija. Today we have an installed capacity in a fixed network of close to three million. Then, if we had developed Serbia's mobile phone on half a million mobile connections, to continue to expand, to digitize the network, meaning state-of-the-art technology, from 32% to 54%. I ask the Government, since I see that all directors are being replaced, 80% of the directors have been replaced in PTT, replaced in Telekom Srbija, new people are being brought in, who cannot get to know telecommunications so quickly, and we can also bring telecommunications into a difficult situation, where both the state and our citizens will have consequences. Now let me say a few words around southern Serbia and around Kosovo and Metohija, as I think I have the right to do so. I was three-and-a-half years in Kosovo and Metohija, although I am from the Kingdom, for a time as deputy head of the Kosovo district and for a time as head of Kosovo's district. Time is passing, and Albanian terrorists are still in southern Serbia, and what I have now heard from Mr. Lazic, it is not true that terrorists are only in the Homeland Security Zone, but that they are outside the Homeland Security Zone, and I think the issue must be dealt with urgently. I know we have good police, and good Yugoslav Army, but given all those who have stood up for our country's defender during NATO aggression, that defenses and protections are today being declared war criminals and are trying to be delivered to The Hague. If that's the case, I'm afraid we'll have neither the Army nor the police, the generals and the officers, who will command them to remove themselves from our territory. Otherwise, I don't believe it, knowing the good mentality of Albanians, that they are not preparing any other positions for some negotiations, when they will accept it, because so far they have not adopted the negotiations. When I talk about negotiations, I think we should see that they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the SR of Yugoslavia, that they are not negotiating with citizens but talking, and we have already come to the stage to talk about negotiations, as if they were already developing some independence, which they are. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, I don't know how many Serbian, Montenegrin, Muslim and other non-Albanian live on Cosmet, but I do know that there are over 35,000 Serbians in the Kingdom from Kosovo. For the three years I've been on Cosmet, I've met almost all these people and talked to them. Unless Cosmet is resolved as soon as possible, I don't think we'll have anyone to return to Kosovo and Metohija. I am constantly in touch with them and they all plead that they no longer go to Kosovo and Metohija and will not allow them to return without respecting Security Council Resolution 1244, to return the previous military, police and to provide them with personal and property security. I am personally informed by many Serbs and Montenegrins, who are now in the King, that their property, acquired in Kosovo and Metohija, has been donated to Albanians, who have moved in and occupied those premises. So if they don't come back as soon as possible and find a solution, I don't think we'll have anyone to bring back. When I was talking about Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji, I'm going to give one suggestion that it might be necessary, if the international community doesn't banish them, and I'm convinced, I have the impression that the international community wants to move them out, that it could do so within 24 hours and that it would drive them out of that area, so I would ask the international community to attend that action, where terrorists from that territory would be expelled, so that we wouldn't have a problem with being responsible for the crimes and the alleged genocide that we made there tomorrow. From the essence of the DOS Coalition itself and your leaders' statements, we understand that we will enter Serbia's regionalisation very quickly. I didn't find it in the mandater's exposé or I didn't hear it, I couldn't find it, but I think it's a very serious question. And the tones are heard from the Vojvodina Assembly, Novi Sad, Novi Pazar, and from Nis, for God's sake, that they will spend their resources on their territory, without Belgrade. Does that mean they'll edit, run judicial authorities, inspection services, the police, which would be dangerous? Will we, in that case, be in a position to be some independent republic, so that we can build some federal Serbia or some state union in the Republic of Serbia? I think we should think this through when it comes to regionalization. In the end, I want to say a few words about the standard of citizens, given what happened with the shift of a large number of directors. Not to be misunderstood, I belong to the SPS, I know that another party is in power, that DOS has come to power, that it will completely naturally and normally replace the directors who belonged to the previous government. But I think it could have been done differently, civilizedly. You had authority, you could make decisions, the government of the Republic of Serbia makes good decisions, proposes a replacement director, proposes a new director, proposes boards, handovers, and there are no problems. In view of the differentiation of power, I fear that after a few years, when others come to power, and make sure they come, they will again act as they are now, which is not good. You had a historic chance to make that transition different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u246	There is a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u247	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members, I would like to keep your attention for a few minutes on three, in my opinion, very important areas, two have been left out in the exposé we heard today from the prime minister, and one is just this one mentioned. The first concerns the international community's relations with Serbia and the measures taken by the international community, i.e. their impact on the citizens' standard of living. I know that the international community's relations with the SR Yugoslavia are something that is a matter of federal level and will be discussed, but I don't think it should be avoided, not to say that the past ten years of this so-called international community have been many acts, which have had an extremely negative effect on the standard of living of citizens. Without the intention of talking about it for a long time, because some things belong to history and don't need it, history is common to all of us, I think it's worth mentioning, because they're an integral part of everything that's been going on for the past ten years. First of all, I think of the fact that on May 31st 1992, the UN Security Council's decision imposed sanctions on SR Yugoslavia. The sanctions were tightened two years later, based on one decision, where Serbs were indicted in advance for the guilty, to show two years later that the culprit was on the other side. But the sanctions remain the consequences of these sanctions. Then, the bombing of SR Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro, in this case Serbia 78 days, killing several thousand people, destroying several thousand infrastructure facilities, schools, houses, bridges, poisoned our land, atmosphere, caused major material damage. The damage was referred to by my fellow MP Slobodan Pavlovic, when he mentioned that a direct damage has been determined according to estimates of relevant experts, which is currently worth over 29 billion dollars. And it's like a 1994 thing to you. The bombing was preceded by a fake OSCE report that Serbian security forces were accused of something they did not do. Two more things undoubtedly affected the citizens' standard of living and that was something that Serbian citizens paid by helping their brothers on the other side of Drina. It should not be forgotten that Serbia has materially helped the population of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. It should not be forgotten that after the events that were in Croatia and BiH, about 800,000 people found their home in Serbia, many of which are here and others. All this affected the standard of living of citizens and that was the price we paid, trying to preserve the integrity of our country, the Republic of Serbia. Another thing - local self-government. We haven't heard a word about local self-government in our oral presentation. The written exposé, which we have received, contains only one sentence -- that local self-government will allow the new law to decentralise authorities and finance. I was talking about the dangers of excessive decentralisation when we talked about the Ministry Act and I don't want to repeat it. The second real danger that stands, when it comes to local self-government, is the incarceration of local self-government and its conversion into feud, a continent that has its own autonomous life, the conversion of local self-government into a state and the behaviour of local self-government as a single state. The result is the failure of local self-government, jeopardising citizens' rights and the rights of local self-government to the harm of Serbian citizens. I don't know if the prime minister knows, but point 6. The Transitional Government Agreement, which is not respected, speaks of establishing units of local self-government based on the results of September elections and the Law on Local Self-Government, without any pressure and obstruction. This point of the Agreement is not respected because, of course, there was both pressure and obstruction in practice. I talked about it last time. I mention again today, for the reason that there was obviously no willingness to accept election results and citizens' will in local elections and to step into action. As right as we mention this subject, I will also illustrate the position of one of the DOS members, if perhaps some of you are not familiar. It's a statement from the New Democracy of the 7th. 11, where New Democracy is being built on the methods of force and its application that followed the constitution of the Ub municipality. The new democracy then estimated that the Serbian United Opposition -- the SPO and two newly elected DOS committees and individuals from the Resistance -- had not had the strength to accept the election will of citizens, so in a non-democratic manner the authorities in the municipality were taken over. I expect the new government to make it possible for legally elected authorities to work. The second example of local self-government is Bosilegrad. We have a situation here that the parliamentary majority has established itself, that it has chosen a congregation of municipalities, organs, but that they are not allowed into the official premises of the Assembly of the Municipality. The third thing, from the level of local self-government, is related to southern Serbia, to Presevo. My question addressed to the mandater, given the confidence measures set down below in Presevo between the government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government, does the prime minister know that the current president of the municipality of Riza Halili in 1992 was president... and organiser of a referendum on territorial autonomy for municipalities in southern Serbia: Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. Has the current president of local self-government, in talks with the government, made a statement about it and has he remained in those positions? And for Presevo, did Mr. Hallili fence himself and condemn the terrorist actions that are going down against all the citizens of Presevo. Furthermore, the next thing the prime minister mentioned, but only by authority, is his assessment of independent media. If memory serves, he said - we want to establish an independent judiciary, as we have established independent media. I must say, according to the data collected from the work of the Supervisory Committee for the Monitoring of the Past Elections, where the Supervisory Board values and assesses pre-election activity most of the votes, something that I believe is the characteristics of information and media conditions in Serbia. Namely, the Supervisory Board then said that there was an unequal representation in the media; that, of course at that time, and also now in the post of DOS promotion, then as one of the participants in pre-election activities, now as a party who won the elections, that disproportionately large space was given to non-governmental organisations of the G-17 group, the Resistance, CESID, the organisations of women who conducted an election campaign in the post of DOS; that the information was abundant with incorrect, false information, and the denials of this information, as a rule, were not published, but were already on the margins of the press that was available; that state officials were absolutely in the function of party propaganda. That other parties' statements have not been published or have been denied. That there were many other examples of violations of the law. That in the media there was a right to hack against prominent individuals, in this case I speak on behalf of the SPS, against our president, his family, against members of the government, without reason and without the denial of everything that was said. I'm talking about this for a reason, because we heard that the Information Act is being abolished. The topic will likely be regulated by regulations, but in the function of what all Serbian citizens want, objectively better and unbiased information. The situation hasn't changed at all. If it's a model of independence, then what will the judiciary look like?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u248	He has the word National MP Bora Stanimirovic, followed by Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u249	Mr. President, honourable MPs, distinguished future ministers of the government, I will not speak specifically about the media because there has been a lot of discussion on this subject. I thought I was talking more about southern Serbia. But what Mr. Djindjic said in his exposé, I don't think we can always start and point out that history starts on October 5th or today. Democracy in Serbia was long before today and should not be fooled. This applies to many others who believe history begins today, and this is about democracy. Secondly, I think it's time for the government, this assembly finally decided on the southern Serbian issue. We don't want to, we have to admit that southern Serbia is at war, and that's why Serbia is at war. There's police down there, there's an army down there, and they shoot each other on the other side. That is why I would ask that one of the next sessions be scheduled and that a parliamentary debate be held on the south of Serbia. I'd suggest there's only one item on the agenda. I point this out for a number of reasons, I'd only list one. If that seems a long way off to us, I have to point out one fact that you all know. Serbia defends itself in the south. If we think Serbia is defending itself from Belgrade, then we will lose Serbia quickly. Then, the exposés of this government can be realized, provided everyone is involved in the work, but I am surprised by the press that quoted a few days ago -- the first 100 days of the government will be arrested. Arrest, normally, there's this organ that's going to chase, there's that they deserve, etc. All over the world, for the first 100 days, the government is allowed to show what it knows. The fact that he's going to arrest, that's what you know who's going to do this job. The second question is the question of the impoverished uranium. I must say, you know that the south of Serbia, that Presevo, Bujanovac and Vranje, are being targeted by NATO's pacts with impoverished uranium. They probably thought it was the poor neighborhoods, too. If they'd known we were a little richer, we might have been hit with enriched uranium. That's worse for us. Therefore, I propose that this assembly and the government, first of all, take all to ensure that whoever just shot these parts, I count and Kosovo, but given everything that is going on and under whose patronage, that someone else will solve it, to decontamination this area, and that is possible to do as quickly as possible, that is better. A colleague just before said 4.5 million years, 4.5 billion years. Decontamination to be performed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Since I work in education, the minister is present now, he is also a elected minister, I would ask that here, primarily because of parents and children who are constantly asking, what will happen and how will happen with education. I know, let's just say our education system is quite outdated. We educate students, including students, as we did 120 years ago. That's right. We, however, hold on to some results when our students or our students achieve many first place in some Olympics, etc. But it's all by the number of facts, how much they've learned, etc. But not by how much they can put into practice, or in practical life. That's why reform must be necessary, but not the way it's supposed to be. Here, first of all, I think, a question that is very current now, the minister announced that at the age of six, students would go to school, although it is known that at the age of six, students who were going through certain checks, or commissions, were going to leave. In the West, in many countries they start at 6 years of age, but it is necessary to create conditions rather than during the school year, not this school year, to create conditions for that age. If we are to sue, then we need to change our curricula completely, change our teaching programs, change our textbooks, prepare our teachers and prepare our children, normally. Second, two generations must have been children, as you know, starting at seven years old, now at six. It has to be bridged. That's where we need to find the best way to bridge it. In five or six years, it can be done. It is certain that this way and this approach cannot be achieved at all costs. Next, the question of the university. Now the university law has already entered the procedure. He'll be on the agenda and we'll talk about it, so I wouldn't keep it. But I want to tell you what's being used. The biggest opponents of the existing University Law are now the biggest supporters. They also use it in the appointment of directors, deans and all other organs. The law is being used, and at the same time, another law is being prepared that will probably be different and much better, but we have to wait for time. I think it's far better if we've applied that law so far, the consequences would be far less, because it's better to have a bad law than to use lawlessness. We've just been doing it for three months. What particularly affects is what the minister said in a discussion, when it comes to rationalising, is, but the problem is especially small rural schools. You know that the population of children, especially in the country, is very weak, because of demographic policy, because of the birth rate as it is, that we did not create conditions in the country, a large number of people live in cities, and that in larger cities, we have very small, dwarf schools, with five, six or two students. I think that this should be taken into account when creating conditions for these schools to develop, or not to end at all costs of school where there are not enough students, if it is rural schools, because we will be in a situation that, practically, schools will wish for a student, but the student will not be anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u250	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word, and after him, the MP Stevan Kesejić. I'll tell you now, 13 other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I am an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, from the Pcinj County, specifically, from Vlad's Han. First, I will say a few words about Mr. Covic, a candidate for Deputy Prime Minister, who spends a lot of his time in the Pcinj County. His first contact with the Yugoslav Army, Mr. Covic used it to hijack the latest jeep, of course blinded, which used the Corps command.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u252	I ask the MPs to pay more attention to Mr Janjic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u253	You won't confuse me, but we'll extend the story. Until today, he did not find it appropriate to return the mentioned vehicle to those who needed it most. Gentlemen of the DOS, you have abolished the Department of Sports and Youth. The youngsters brought out your October revolution, and Mr. Covic holds a tennis championship in Bujanovac. There's a racket, on the one hand a terrorist, on the other side a government, and people in the middle serve as balls. You don't know who's paying for the racket, and that's why it doesn't work out there. Since the audience is getting more nervous, the racketeering should be over as soon as possible. By submitting a report on the state of security, on several occasions, Mr Covic, who is not here now, you have deceived the public about calming the situation, and the situation is vice versa, or catastrophic. All the people living there are under house arrest, both Serbs and Albanians. In submitting reports from that area, you never mentioned that police had retired in chaos, without synchronising with the Yugoslav Army, so certain military units remained in the environment, by clans and valleys, and they pulled out a people without victims simply thanks to the corpus command's determination to attack terrorists by all means, if only one bullet was fired at units that were retreating to new positions. Also, no one is presenting information about military security services' findings, about a large arms smuggling from the Republika Srpska and the Muslim-Croatian Federation. These operations are still happening today, and no one is responding or preventing it. For Mr Batic, otherwise a lawyer from southern Serbia, the stories that he would be a minister of industry led us to think about it by Mr Batic, as he visited southern Serbia on several occasions, publicly and secretly, day and night, visiting certain factories in Surdulica, Vladic's Han, but did not visit judges and prosecutors to make an insight there. In particular, he had a great interest in the Cat, which has a significant million foreign exchange assets in Cyprus and the East, and there is a lot of problematic privatisation. If you continue with the practice of getting so close to individual directors, who are suspected of economic crime and robbery, while the wives of those directors consider your party to form your committees, then don't send leaps to southern Serbia, these are dangerous snakes, send white snakes. Instead of large-scale criminals, chasing couriers, workers and small businesses. We have heard no concrete solution to the crisis in southern Serbia. Nor did they give the deadlines. There are equally threatened Serbs, non-Albanians, who see Serbia as their country and want freedom of movement, so that they can trade, process the country and earn a living. Gentlemen, combine sports and education. Education is in such a catastrophic situation, last time they received humanitarian benefits on 12.12., hot meals and wages, we won't even talk about it. I'm afraid, Mr. Djindjic, that you only dispute who, as formerly Ustasha Mesic, will come out for a pay phone and say, the task is over, Serbia no longer exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u254	The People's MP Stevan Kesejić has the word, and after him, the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this small time, be a little more patient, because if this doesn't work out for anyone, they'll use, hopefully, at least the Prime Minister, to get to know their ministers a little bit better, it seems like he didn't get to know him very well, but from these previous discussions, he'll probably be able to conclude that some of his ministers are the ones he'll have to clear up some accounts with first. The bills he promised in his exposé. So, the fight against crime, the fight against corruption, because a series of evidence has been presented here in fact and argued, even witnesses have been offered for individuals whom Mr. Prime Minister appointed as his ministers. Of course it's hard not to repeat it, but every repeat word also means confirmation, that it's important things and that what we MPs bring from the field is the most important thing. So, whatever more stuff is repeated, if the topics are more common, then the problems are also common and large. That's why no one should be bored here, that yawning, at the very least, should go out, that this parliament should really be a parliament of MPs. Today, in the paper, Evening News, we could read a lie. In fact, it's about an article that's been published and I have to quote it in order for you to understand what it's about. The discussion on the proposal for a law on ministries, explained by Parliament club chief Cedomir Jovanovic, was zealously attended by nearly all SPS, the SRS and the SS, and thus gained the impression that it was an obstruction, in order to extend the government's election. So, this is the most orthodox lie, because it is said that almost all the MPs of the SRS, who are listed among other things, and we all know that at that session other than the head of the Parliament Club, Dr Vojislav Seselj, spoke only his deputy Tomislav Nikolic and none more than 23 MPs present at this session. So that's the lie. Why was I talking about this article? Because recently such articles have not only been in this list, but also in other means of information are quite common on many issues. On the contrary to that claim in this article, the SRS has been eager to welcome this session so that the Government of the Republic of Serbia would be able to establish itself as soon as possible, so that they could cease to transfer responsibility to the former regime, and we know well that DOS authorities have taken over all the leverages of the government, most importantly, I would say institutions in the state, larger businesses and therefore, on 6 October, they practically have practical authority, and today it is only formally necessary that this National Assembly is verifying it. So, these October revolutions, as the DOS like to say, so why don't I call that revolution that, not that it came in a legal way, but mostly with rifles, cracks and bangers. In all major institutions in the country, including at municipal levels, the same situation is because this government of DOS democracy through coups has spread throughout Serbia both in the north and in the south. Of course, in Mr Zoran Djindjic's exposé, there are certain guidelines on how this government will work. We couldn't really read anything here, anything concrete, so we could grab hold of one of the ministry's portfolios, so let's see what that particular ministry in its domain offers citizens, except for the political pamphlet that was in the election campaign. For nearly four months, so three months and something, the same future members of this government, until we choose them, still in the future, are still candidates, promised as leaders of their political parties within the DOS assistance from the West. The citizens, of course, looked forward to it and expected it even today, but they were already slowly beginning to be impatient. Only how impatient they will be if they learn that there are new governments in their ranks who are experienced wolves of the Kumrov school, as well as that in the government experts there are people who have no idea, e.g. They don't know agriculture, and they give such statements as simply to a peasant's mind to stop. More than 30 pfening per kilogram of wheat is an attractive price, but certainly not a market, and neither is the state capable of providing the farmer or the producer with that price, especially as we will come at a crossroads with European prices, so we will not be curent on the European market. And the exposé claims that, in addition to providing food for citizens in Serbia and Yugoslavia, we will have plenty for exports. So, speaking of agriculture, I have to ask one question that I was astounded by an article in the Dossov newspaper, that the government of Japan has given aid through some humanitarian action to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. G-17, and that the minister who already presents himself, Dragan Vesenov, thus four million dollars for the purchase of artificial fertilizers. Where are those money ministers? We know well, mostly those who are interested and who are related to this profession that we have only one quarter (the chairman's warning of MPs on time) of the necessary NPK fertilizer to save wheat. So these are all facts and things that can't go undetected, that it's an unserious programme, indeed a political pamphlet that isn't ultimately absorbed. In the end, if you will allow me, what the Dossow government has afforded the most and what it is based on its political effects is the intimidation of both citizens and political inexperiences. We have a very drastic example of such behaviour (chairing a rewarning of MPs on time) that in northern Serbia, in Sombor, a nonsensical in the judiciary and in the prosecution, or in the bar. Thus, in Sombor, a well-known lawyer, otherwise the founder of the Serbian Democratic Party with Dr Jovan Raskovic, the late one, who pleaded for a just Serbian matter, but was put in a difficult position to defend Serbian radicals, and that he specifically went after Mr Nenada Canka and therefore followed the application to the Vojvodina Bar of Lawyers to suspend himself immediately because of the established suspicion of the work I read. So, from everything, this is still what Mr. Djindjic is, probably future Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u256	Mr. Casey, thank you. Your time is up. You've been talking for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u257	Just to thank the Minister. I want him to combine what's in the bag, and it's gonna be really hard because there's a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u258	Thank you. There's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you, and Miss Lady, it's my first time here, probably for her first time, so it's our first time. This is what I'm saying to break the porch. I come from once the most beautiful cities in Serbia, a city once referred to as small Carigrad, a city that could compete for cities from Western and Eastern Europe by cultural and economic development. It's the town of Sabac. Sabac is a city that has experienced two accidents in its ten-year history. One in 1988, when there was a shootout between the Socialists and the Communists. When there was a shift of the best personnel, at the time. The second accident occurred in 2000, so after October 5th, when there was a shift of those personnel, which remained little. Crisis headquarters are formed. The headquarters where the worst people, the worst character, were gravitated. Probably the characters that belonged to this party where you're hearing from now. But, well, it's all a period, as the president of my party, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, said in the morning, is known. I must tell you honestly, the other night on TV, Mr. Djindjic said that privatisation at one point took hold and that it was carried out by people who wanted to get rich as soon as possible or to take over companies for free. However, he forgot to say that his best associate, Dragas, had already enrolled five of the strongest privatisation companies in the Sabac municipality and had already announced to the West that he could take them for granted. Mr. Djindjic, on his arrival in the Zorka chemical complex, did not laugh, it is sad, passed his convoy by collecting votes, and seeing then the mineral fertiliser factory thought it produced sugar or milk, but not knowing it was dirty technology, he immediately said it was archaeological value. But in recent days, because of the government's obstruction, he blamed the Radical Party, and that's exactly what he said, that he provided the peasants with fertilizer in time for no government obstruction. However, he forgot, Mr Djindjic, that when he announced the imports of about 25,000 tonnes of fertilizer, that mineral fertiliser factories do not need imported fertilisers, but they need raw materials, raw materials so that workers of the mineral fertiliser factory can provide themselves with personal and decent income. Secondly, there's a gentleman here, charming, whom I've seen on television, Mr. Vesenov, so it'll probably be easier for the peasants now, because I thought Mr. Veselin's doctor of agriculture, but now he's a politician, so now the villagers will be able to run politics even better, but without the village, without work, means the village will be happy. In other words, probably many of you who are hearing yourself here, you know very little that the president of the Chamber of Commerce is a man from Capac, a man who is a great businessman, a man who has put forth a great deal of effort, probably walked in political prisons, but at a time when he probably robbed a lot of companies, so in this part of socialism he has changed, he has been a sympathier of several parties, or a socialist or a JUL, and now in this time he is a member of Pasic's party. So you can see the minister of justice, so is the president of the Chamber of Commerce. I was also concerned by the fact that the Democratic opposition brought Mr. Adem Dematici from Pristina to Belgrade television, to see how much democracy was, brought in a man who had bloodied his hands, who indirectly killed a lot of our Serbian children, and I probably thought that he had come to an agreement with Mr. Djindjic to appoint Mr. Thaci as defence minister. That would be perhaps the best pearl, if he had set it up. In this Serbia, you probably have to remember, don't laugh, because it's not for laughing, probably, this The Hague is all talked about, so here's a little bit of me to mention, you see, a lot of brave people are asked to go there, people who were our idols, that we mentioned with our first world war champions. It is Mr. Ratko Mladic, a man who has shown his courage to defend the fear of his country, and probably you (repeated to an MP in the hall) would not be able to defend the colors, because you are so brave and so laugh at me, and should respectfully pronounce his name. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u260	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, exposés of Prime Ministers for Prime Ministers begins with one sentence, which has a bit of a strange qualification, and it reads: "Today we choose the first democratic government of Serbia, after 60 years". It would be beautiful if it weren't funny and ironic. We are in fact choosing today a pure political government, with a minority of more vice-presidential positions than the ministerial seats, the government for the satisfaction of personal vanity and vanity of leaders and leaders, the association of parties "from the hills of the valley". I've been listening to the exposés of the last few years, full of good wishes and promises, but this one's moved me to tears. I believe that the same feelings will be shared by citizens when tomorrow, in the regimeal and particularly independent newspapers, they read the exposés, the same citizens who gave the vote to DOS, eager for better life and overall changes to the better. I think their disappointment will be right to mine, because we haven't heard so much pathetic and phrase since Tito. Speaking of the DOS electoral programme, as a government programme, whether it is possible for the Prime Minister to think of the reformist or LSD programme, of Vojvodina as a special republic, or perhaps the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians programme, of regional autonomy, with the ultimate outcome of secession and separation from Serbia. In the exhibition on privatisation, Mr. Prime Minister, it is not surprising for us, and it is not surprising for the prime minister, because in 1994, in the same assembly, together with the SPS, he returned to the start of legal projects on ownership transformation. I'm going to base the criticism of this exposé on two points of resistance -- first of all, it's two about agriculture. I express my personal suspicion of the expertise and competence of the future Minister of Agriculture, otherwise Professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences. Countless times on television, Mr. Veselinov advocated the price of 11.00 dinars per kilogram for wheat, and the federal government determined the price of 7.00 dinars. The price of 11.00 dinars will satisfy the manufacturer anyway. But that means the price of 44,00 dinar bread at the end. I don't think any comment on Mr. Veselinov's competence is necessary. In the election campaign, also, the same Mr. Vesenov has repeatedly advocated irrigation of orange surfaces. It's a marketable thing to say, but the bottom line is it's about a clean and obvious ignorance of things. The fact is, in Serbia 2% of the orange surfaces are for irrigation, the fact is that we are in the last place in Europe and even behind Albania. The fact is that the irrigation problem must be addressed seriously and responsibly. However, Mr. Vesenov obviously confused the order of things, which is not surprising, given his expertise and competence. There is no irrigation, gentlemen MPs, no organic fertilisers, because in time with water, olives and micro elements are washed out of the country, without which there is no normal plant development, and hence, no complete development of the same plants to the fruit. That's why the order is vice versa, firstly, I suggest to Mr. Minister to advocate investing in livestock. I think that these two things and these two facts Mr. Vesenov has promoted himself, indeed, as an expert expert and competent man for the Minister of Agriculture. A second newly established ministry of economic relations with abroad has been added to it, the formerly abolished Ministry of Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. It is obvious, gentlemen of the DOS, that Soros and various other Soros are slowly turning the financial tap, and it is clear to you that the segendial branch of the CIA is turning towards Vojvodina, and it is normal that the Serbs from the diaspora only need financial support for your demands. What concerns me, and what I must point out as a Serbian radical, is that I hope that the co-ordinator of this ministry will not be Mr. Joseph Kasa, the same Mr. Kasa, who, in the framework of October revolutionary events, on stage, in the centre of the town of Subotica, has said that he will not personally do so, but is convinced that the Serbs from Subotica will move. Apparently, he, as a very mental man, is now promoting himself to the protectors of Serbs and guarantees of their security in northern Serbia. The first step in that protection is to ban Casino from entering Subotica the dead Emperor Dusan. Personally, Mr. Kasa participated in the destruction of the postament for the monument of the first Serbian legislator. Is that how he's to be Deputy Prime Minister? Mr. Kasu also called your OTPOR for financial malfeasances, which local leaders worked in conjunction with private companies, which had a monopoly on co-operation and the work of the municipality. Well, isn't he a criminal to be vice president of the Republic government? Mr. Kasa himself admitted that one in a dozen citizens of Subotica, all of them from the ranks of the SPS, are the only one from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, who received credit from the Vojvodjanska Banka under extremely favourable conditions of return, both interest and time. The total amount is about 100,000 marks. Which is a lot, Mr. Djindjic, and you're talking about honesty and corruption. Is that really the kind of criminal for the vice president of the government? In person, Mr. Kasa, as president of the municipality's assembly, Božovic appointed him, enabled his daughter in an internal competition as the president of the municipality's assembly, who only knew him, his daughter and official in the municipality's congregation, to buy more than 20 ha of land at the border of the municipality's land, at extremely small amounts of money. What is this, if it's not a crime? Is it really Mr. Kass for the vice president? And what is mentioned today for this speaker, isn't Mr. Kasa, otherwise leader of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, a party that formed a document entitled "A deal on the political and legal frameworks of the Vojvodina and the self-government of the duchy national minorities". I ask Mr. Prime Minister to request this document from Mr. Kasa or other leaders of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, deliver it to you and see who you choose as vice president today. I'll just read you a few items from that document. The Hungarians offer this: citizens of Vojvodina, or Serbs-Montenegro, can live without restriction with democratic rights and will have the opportunity to represent themselves in all authorities. This Kasa is truly generous, giving us Serbs in Serbia the right to do something and choose. In point 1, Section 8, says: Every citizen of the Vojvodina after exhausted domestic legal remedies will have the opportunity to address international institutions. You don't need Cassie's state of Serbia, and you need Kasa. In point 3, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the document says: National Councils, and is referred to as temporarily larger Hungarians in Vojvodina, have the right to perform as representative bodies of individual national communities. National councils, as representative bodies, may, either independently or in agreement with the Provincial Government, exercise the executive power within the framework of this agreement and the law on questions raised. Within their work, they adopt laws. They make territorial laws, they make deals with the province, there's nothing the Republic, and he's going to be the Republic Vice President of the Government! This is the kind of Kasu you want in your power (President: time is up). Ten days ago, eight leaders of the Hungarian local self-government met in the village of Gornji Breg, the municipality of Senta. At four points, they agreed to continue to implement their agreements. Alal such Kasa and honor you, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I as a Serbian radical for such a government, Mr. Prime Minister, have no moral right to vote and I will vote against.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u262	There is a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic, and let Ljubomir Dragovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, it is no doubt that today the assembly majority will vote in the mandate programme and the new government of the Republic of Serbia. It is the undisputed right of the congregation’s majority. It is also an undeniable right for the opposition in this parliament to criticise all the proposals proposed by the assembly's majority. The Serbian Radical Party as an opposition party will exercise its right and today will not vote for the proposed government, for the simple reason that in the last three months we have not gained the impression that this government will be able to respond to all the demands of the time in which we live, as DOS authorities have shown all their incompetence, sterility, irresponsibility towards the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. I will not repeat what has already been said about the situation in Cosmet, in southern Serbia, in Vojvodina, in the Rasko area, all this has already been said. All that the mandater has put forward in his presentation can be challenged. But one fact, which he said, is undeniable. The mandate said that today is October 6th, which means that from October 5th to the present there is darkness in Serbia. It is true, it has been dark in Serbia since 5 October. I refer the matter to the prime minister, which has led to the darkness of Serbia since 5 October. Authorities and media have persistently tried to convince the public that the lack of electricity is due to empty accumulations due to the long-term drought. It is true that there was an unremembered drought in Serbia last year. It's true that the batteries are empty. However, I found some data, so I'm going to expose them, to compare the situation over the last two or three months with the situation in the last year or 1999. Although we had a brutal aggression against NATO in 1999, even though we had severe destruction, besides other energy capacities, we succeeded, I say we succeeded because the SRS was in the government of the Republic of Serbia, we managed to secure electricity in the previous period, in the previous year, that we had the cheapest electricity and that we had orderly supplies. With the arrival of the DOS government in Serbia, electricity shortages and electricity problems begin. DOS officials said the consumption of electricity during the October-November period was about 80m kilowatt hours a day. The comparisons work, in the same period in 1999, production in our thermal power plants, without hydropower plants and without TE Kosovo, were about 80 million kilowatt hours per day. The question arises, but it is doubtful that something else has not worked in this previous period. He supported such a suspicion, or confirmed by one of the DOS leaders, Mr Protic, who said several days ago at Study B, that it was true that after October 5th in Kolubara, there was a strike and that this was the reason why there was insufficient electricity in Serbia. The question arises whether Mr Protic made a true claim, whether it is true or not, or whether the representatives of the current authorities were right when they found that the reason was something else. To make evil a bigger and then the Minister of Energy in the Serbian government, in the transitional government, resigns, although the energy situation was probably the most difficult in our recent history. Is this the responsibility the DOS offers to this people, the citizens of Serbia, whether that is the responsibility we expect and from this government that will be voted today. The essence of the DOS government also proves one article, which was published yesterday in the list "Today". The leader of a DOS party is his concern for the situation at the Obrenovac Termopower Plant. Namely, he says, there has been an abduction around the leadership sites. Is that part of the programme DOS offers to Serbian citizens? The second question is a matter of donation. Again, one DOS leader said a few days ago that it had arrived in Serbia, based only on electricity, over 150 million marks. Gentlemen, if we had that kind of money, we could probably at least start building some new capacity in the previous period. The question is, where's the money and what's been done to it, if we still have power shortages. In the end, I just want to take a brief look at the information situation. You just suspended the Ministry of Information two days ago. On the other hand, there's a campaign going on on state television for so-called. independent state television. I don't understand how state television can be independent. Again, a DOS-controlled daily list, several days ago, claims that more than 300 people have been employed in the last three months on that independent state television. Is that DOS policy too, the policy that DOS offers for the next period. These are only segments for which we cannot and will not vote for the programme presented by the prime minister and for the new Republic government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u264	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who, in my opinion, is just one pamphlet and a very bad copy, a very poorly-recorded wish by some foreign officials that the government should rule, conduct and exercise executive power in the Republic of Serbia. As the prime minister says, the program is transparent and glass. That's the only right thing he said in his exposé. The implementation of this programme is a waste of honor and history. Your honor, Mr. Djindjic, I don't want to argue, but history cannot be lost, history is not a toy that can be destroyed or lost. Otherwise, the program of the new prime minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as if it were written in co-operation with Kouchner. And he, Mr Djindjic, advocates an independent judiciary and that judiciary that will only be tried by Serbs, and so far, more convictions have been handed down from that independent judiciary and long-standing Serbian prisoners just because they are Serbs. Worst of all, they plan to condemn many more innocent Serbs, to prove what an independent judiciary is and what democracy is. Whether or not the occupiers in Kosovo and Metohija both advocate the return of the People's Tribunal, or the People's Lawyer, as you say. You know what his function is? Its function is to carry out terror and unprecedented pressures on the remaining Serb animal, which remained to live in Kosovo and Metohija. Furthermore, Mr. Prime Minister, and the occupiers are introducing various expert teams into Kosovo and Metohija's private lives. The results of these expert teams are the closure and destruction of all economic potentials in Kosovo and Metohija. Can you put a sign of equality between Kouchner's expert teams and your government, between Kouchner's program and your program? In his text, the prime minister says, "We will propose a law on the return of the seized property, which will at least partially protect the people whose property has been seized for ideological reasons. In fact, we expect the federal government to annul the relevant state acts half a century ago." I would remind you that one shameful legal decision from half a century ago was taken from the country and property and banned the return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. This shameful law has introduced all these events that followed in Kosovo and Metohija. The law also disrupted the demographic structure in Kosovo and Metohija. Because of this law, Kosovo is under occupation today. You say you won't steal and lie. I now tell you in advance that you are not telling the truth and that you deceive the Serbian people in the state of Serbia, because I am convinced that no property in Kosovo and Metohija will be returned to the right owner, i.e. A Serb, who was expelled and banned from returning to Kosovo and Metohija. Just like you fulfilled your promise to banish the first day after the election. It's been more than a month since the election, and you promise not to keep it, but not to let the people do it ever. As for the composition of the future government of the Republic of Serbia, I can conclude that this is one heterogeneous mass, which has no perspective ahead. Mr. Batic, I'm sorry he's not here, a few years ago after this address, he said, "The session of the Administrative Committee, chaired by Tito's very brave pioneer from the Užica Republic, Zarko Jokanovic... "I'm surprised his boss isn't here today. Who is represented by Dusan Mihajlovic? Did he ever show up for this session? He's gone now. Mr. Baticu, Mr. Mihajlovic came, but for the Minister of the Interior. It's a disgrace to this state of Serbia. Once again, I must quote Mr Djindjic's future mandate: "The state rests on two principles. The first principle is that laws must be respected, that violations of the law are punishable and that laws are not violated without any sanctions." Both of these principles of yours have been violated. No matter what you say today is partly October 5th, but let me remind you, it's been more than three months since October 5th, three months of chaos and lawlessness, with a lot of perpetrators, and no one has been punished. Let us remind ourselves of the Federal Assembly, the National Bank, the Radio Television, the Federal Customs Administration, etc. You say, Mr. Djindjic, you will shed light on the murder of Mr. Curuvia, the murder of the Ibaric magistrate, the abduction of Ivan Stambolic. The employers and perpetrators of these crimes must be found in the face of justice. But it is a shame that you forgot, and you have not mentioned in one word the crimes of Cypriot terrorists and extremists, who have killed over 1,000 Serbs since the arrival of the peacekeeping forces in Kosovo and Metohija and kidnapped over 1,000 Serbs. It is regrettable not to mention the suffering of Serbs and crimes against Serbs by Cypriot terrorists and extremists. It is even sadder to offer co-operation with Albanians with Serbia, as if these Albanians were not in Serbia. All these allegations tell me that I was right when I put a sign of equality between Bernard Kouchner and you, Mr. Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u266	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word and then the People's Messenger Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u267	Mr. President, we heard Mr. Djindjic's exposé and the composition of his government. As far as the ministries themselves are concerned, they're all experts to experts, at least on paper, by the biographies we've been offered, and what real experts they are, I believe we'll see to it very soon. However, there are experts among the vice-presidents of the Republic government, even the resolute responsibilities for these vice-presidents have been shared. From today's paper, I read that Mr. Kasa has won a portfolio of national minorities. Perhaps an expert in this, however, is in his spare time most of the local separatism and separatism, and there is a real expert. As for Mr Perisic, who received the national security portfolio, that's a little odd. It is that a man is qualified, however, I would now call him a former expert, because his actions as Chief of Staff of the Yugoslav Army, in the period from early 1997 to his replacement in 1998, suggest that he is an ex-expert. In fact, Mr Perisic is extremely responsible for the successful arms smuggling in Kosovo and Metohija, from Albania and Macedonia. Mr. Perisic, such passive observation and actions as were taken, allowed terrorists to arm themselves extremely well, to establish and fortification security and make it difficult, after his shift, for our military and police to banish them, banish them and destroy them. At the very least, it can't be said that Mr. Perisic is an unprofessional face and he didn't know about it. He's an extremely capable officer and an elder, because he's the first man. It is not easy to become the first man of the Yugoslav army. His reports, which he sent to the federal government, saying there are several hundred armed Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, which the military will clear in two hours, put the federal government to sleep and gave time to Albanian terrorists and NATO, especially NATO, to prepare their public for the intervention. I still remember perfectly when Mr Perisic taught two French pilots to the French delegation, who were shot down during the aggression on Republika Srpska. At that time, he said that Serbs were free people, righteous and that it never happened to them again. It happened again and Mr. Perisic is extremely responsible, extremely. With his views, which he referred to as Chief of Staff, between 1997 and his replacement period, he gave time to prepare the world for what was happening to us. At the very least, he is extremely responsible for NATO intervention. There is now a question why such an elder, such as Perisic, who even had military operations in Croatia, suddenly became a Democrats. His excuse is that he left the army in retirement and decided to help democratisation Serbia. This question is a little weird and, believe me, I don't personally believe it's a matter. Perhaps Mr. Perisic feared The Hague court, that he would be charged with war crimes, so he subordinated his personality to his personal interests, not national and state-owned interests. So there can be no talk of his expertise and validity as a man, now, at this point, to represent the national security portfolio. As a confirmation of all this, the current events in the south are. It is, gentlemen, the time when DOS had power and Mr. Perisic was probably as an elder, former elder and former Yugoslav Army officer, he could assume, although there were notifications from both the police and the military to prepare such a thing. But nothing has been done. Because of all that I have now stated, the Serbian Radical Party will in any case not give confidence to Mr Perisic, nor the other members, to candidates for the Republic government, because it must be clear to everyone that national and state interests are more important than any person, and that Mr Perisic feared The Hague court and acted according to the orders of the Western forces and NATO, it can very little mean to him, because we have such an example with Mrs Biljana Plasic, who, by her own behaviour, has submitted everything to NATO, and to the Western alliance, both the European Community and the Union, and ended up in The Hague. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, it will fight that Mr Perisic, and if he has sinned against the Serbian people and the Serbian state, that he does not reach The Hague, not because we love him, but because we are fighting for no citizen to get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u268	The People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u269	Dear People's MPs, Serbia has, in its history and statehood, in the last two centuries, started in 1805, since the Law of the Soviet Union, with proto Matija Nenadovic, until today, had a total of 110 governments. Today, this high house is to elect the 111st government. I don't mean to be indignant, but those three numbers, three units in number 111, I'm afraid students and teachers would say it's hard to pass. Among the respected ministers in this two-century history were Ilija Garasanin, Toma Vukic-Perisic, Jasa Prostanovic, Nikola Pasic, and among the ministers of Education Ljuba Nenadović, Stojan Novakovic, Svetozar Pribićevic. [[Applause]] I also warn and remind these people who have gold letters written in the history of Serbian statehood, and I wonder, since this government will, in any case, be an integral part of Serbian history, whether it will be written on those dark or bright sides. According to what we heard in the exhibition of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, which is the colour of the lies we have listened to and the citizens of Serbia listened to both before the September and December elections, we have only pamphlets, we have empty promises, fog, and how we will solve certain problems, we still don't know. The weather will, of course, show its own. Given that the government is forming a coalition consisting of 18 political groups, very different programming orientations, I have to remind myself of one legal saying, because it is practically confirmed, that it cannot be well ruled if many command. I have to remind you of two other legal sayings, I apologize, I'm a lawyer, and I've also seen in the list of DOS MPs that there are a lot of lawyers, a lot of lawyers, a lot of professors, and there's no time to comment, there's going to be a better moment, but the qualification structure is very high. So it doesn't exactly reflect the qualifications of the population in Serbia and their voters. So, I want to remind myself of two more legal sayings, which is -- that the government should also respect the laws and that the reputation of the government depends on the respect of the law. Why do I remind you of these two sayings? Why do I want to talk about current Minister for Higher and Higher Education, which is today proposed as Minister of Education and Sports, Gashi Knezevic? I have to draw attention to Mr. Djindjic that he proposed Dr. Gaš Knezevic as Minister of Education, and we haven't had that ministry in two days, you didn't follow the Assembly the day before yesterday, the Law on the Amendments of the Ministry Act was passed. It is easy to talk about Gashi Knezevic, because he has already proven himself to be a high-ranking minister in the transitional government, as well as that he is not ready to comply with the laws and thus preserves the reputation of the government. Gašo Knezevic, the intellectual public in Serbia, is very well known, but the general public is not. That is why I believe that this is a suitable moment and that the public of Serbia finds out who it is and who the man we trust with is such an important resort in the government and who we trust to build programs, education, education and education, and education, and sports and all that this ministry already includes, which it should take care of. So, a man who hasn't proven himself in the middle he comes from. He showed up, but he didn't prove himself. It's the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, and aside from being a notorious alcoholic, I'm sorry to say it as a lady, but it's one of the generals, and they say he's cured, but since he's not here today, almost all day, frequent breaks are real, he's probably just healed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u270	I'm asking the People's MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u271	It is also known that he robbed students in a way that is at least a criminal, until school in 1988/89. For years, in collaboration with a certain Nikola Zafirov, in his private apartment, where he organized an extra weekend lecture. And for their listeners, who could pay for it, but probably depending on the will of Nikola and Gashi, of the payability of those who had to pay international private law in this way, the price was between 150 and 300 marks. In addition, in advance the known question as a wildcard, students, preparing for such an important subject, because all those who studied law know how complex the subject is International Private Law and how difficult it was to pass it to Professor Milan Pak, based on scripts that were unacknowledged by the university and with one pre-known question and attending this unrecognizable weekend school, were practically only certain students of the case at Gaša Knezevic. Most importantly, however, what Mr. Gashi Knezevic said about his colleagues and members of the commission, Dr. Milan Pak, Predrag Šulejic and Dr. Bozidar Pavicevic, saying that in his referendum in September 1998, Gašo Knezevic competed for a choice, or re-election for an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Law. I quote: "It is from everything that is exposed that Dr. Gašo Knezevic has shown by his overall teaching work in calling the doctor and the extraordinary professor a series of shortcomings that should be considered in the election." They also mentioned these unacknowledged by the university script and that he had shown an unconscious attitude towards students by not giving lectures and exercises and not informing students about it. How, then, such a man can be saved at an even more complex and responsible function such as the minister's office. And what Gašo Knezevic says about himself, December 25th, in "Evening News", bulldozer Gašo Knezevic promises to read all textbooks, school textbooks, which he probably should have done, because he obviously missed a lot and said, it is very important, "because the authors mostly wrote textbooks with their left hand". Like this, academic one sentence. My two daughters, three of them, are left-handed. She was afraid the kids wouldn't be able to do science if a minister like this banned left-handed persons from proving themselves and proving themselves in science. Which leaves Gašo Knezevic in the last two, three months very well known in public, according to a statement -- him or me -- referring to someone else, rather than Professor Dr Vojislav Seselj. When Professor Seselj was admitted to the Faculty of Law to call regular Professor Gašo Knezevic gave this statement, left the university, he couldn't bear that anyone else, that someone who wasn't his equalist would be at the university in a calling that was even more than his. Meanwhile, of course, he became a minister, so he changed his mind, went back to college, and Professor Dr. Seselj is still here, in college. He knew, I suppose, that he would use something called the decree and decree Gašo Knezevic removes Professor Vojislav Seselj from the university, making a solution that abolishs Vojislav Seselj's calling a regular professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u272	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u273	It explains that, with the insight into the inspection documentation, please, the Ministry of Higher and Higher Education's inspection found that Dr Vojislav Seselj did not meet the conditions laid down by the University Act to obtain the calling of a regular professor. This inspection was very competent and legally authorized for something like this. It's what? Everyone knows, abuse of the position and public function motivated by political reasons, because it is impossible for a professor of law not to know that under the General Administrative Procedure Act, the dean's individual legal acts are not authorised to be abolished under official supervision, which determines the dean's individual rights and responsibilities of teachers from working relationships. It's about harmful pedagogical initiatives that we don't even talk about. Parents simply wonder what this minister is preparing for our children? Announcing his departure to school at the age of six, introducing a foreign language to the first grade of primary school. Leaving options for teachers' activities to decide which method units will kick out of certain items, which they will not, thus introducing practical anarchy into our programs and education to a small door. He keeps selling some fog, and these announced in the election campaign, although I don't see any experts except for the self-proclaimed ones, either. In general, the SRS believes that the work of Gaša Knezevic is deeply harmful to national interests, education and youth education. His plans are threatening, and his statement is particularly true, I would like to ask his attention, which he gave to celebrate the anniversary of Serbia's oldest Medical Faculty. He said just like this: "I will quote Stipe Mesic," says Gašo Knezevic, "as he entered the SFRJ presidency to cause the break-up of the SFRY, so he entered the ministry to banish politics from the university". He probably meant political inexperience, not those of the Civil League. I'm just wondering if it's possible that the ideological role model is Gashi Prince Stipe Mesic. Now, Serbia, what did you expect, for a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia to quote at a public rally in Stipe Mesic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u274	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djindjic, the beginning of my discussion is on your exposé, and since I come from Beocina, I have to go from that one single sentence of Vojvodina. Your conglomerate of political forces that make up the government, the overall DOS, is so different on the Vojvodina issue that I think that we in Vojvodina rightly expected that at least the government would be precise on what it would be and what Vojvodina would look like. Because when we read the programs of your political parties, then we don't know where we are. While I was listening to you first, I was surprised that you didn't say anything about agriculture, then in the end, when you read the government's composition, that surprise stopped because in that government of yours, except for the three-four, they came to the economy for lunch, and I'm not saying it in an ugly way, because the jobs you were doing in the economy, you could only go to guests and lunch. I'm afraid with this one sentence, which you also said somewhere at the beginning, you'll end up with The Hague. You said there was no compromise with terrorists. Bye-bye, then to The Hague. That's how it started and then. You're talking to an independent judiciary, and I don't know whether to trust you or Mr. Mihajlovic. Since he said the other day, the courts aren't in our hands yet. I don't know what kind of independent judiciary is in someone's hands. These programs are slightly different, so we'll stay in a dilemma that's telling the truth from you two. You're talking about streamlining the government and introducing a dozen vice presidents, but I'm satisfied because there's at least one more than in Vojvodina. There are six vice presidents of the Executive Council in Vojvodina, and since this is an older organ, it would be a turn to have at least one more. There's six, there's seven, so at least on that side we'll be satisfied. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Batic here. In fact, I wonder, before I say it about him, is it true what you said at first, which is that this government and these ministers will only do their jobs, so I don't know what they're doing all day today when they're mostly not sitting here, except for some exception. Either they're finishing some of the jobs they've had so far, that from tomorrow as a government, they're only working as a government, or that's another one of the statements that doesn't agree with the truth. You should tell us if Mr. Batic was the minister of justice or the assistant, if you've been chasing some terms, I may say, that every night on TV, he's been accusing, judging, and still missing that he's on the scene shooting and finishing his job, sinking him when he comes for the minister, or Mr. Batic, and some lacking a leather coat to fit in 1945. We have one of your reasons at the end, since two things at the end of the exposé were about the Ministry of Sports, which was a lot of words here the other day, where there was also the Ministry of Ecology, in the end, which means that you've changed your mind a little bit, or that your argument that you're going to bring it to the Ministry of Ecology, or how you're going to baptize it, in six months, it's hard for him to swallow these ten years as a real explanation. About education and Mr. Kassi, like this, I would like Mr. Kasa to be here to explain the reciprocity of Hungary, and I would also like someone to tell me what a Serbian is in the Hungarian government, to explain to me, and let's say that in a small town called Baton and located in Hungary, on the three-way between Yugoslavia and Romania, with which my Beocin is picked up on the line of a Serbian school there, there are Serbs who go to Hungarian school, and what they learn in Serbian teaches them a professor of Serbian literature, which is being held as a worker of elementary school." Greece's Milenko" in Beocin, and pays for Belgrade, and then Mr. Kasa and some similar talk about how we in Serbia are scolding national minorities and his Hungarians and ours from Vojvodina are schooling in Hungarian and paying again from Belgrade or from our joint bag. So I wonder who's at risk in Serbia? National minorities or Serbs? Because if we're paying for our education, and national minority schools from our bag, and we're also paying for our schooling out of our bag, then we're probably in danger, so that should be explained. With all this talk about improving our standard, I would like to believe Mr. Vuk Obradovic, since all of you who talked about 150, 180 or 200 marks, Mr. Vuk Obradovic, in an election campaign before September, spoke about a standard of 2,000 marks on local television in Beocino. I'd like to experience it, and I'm going to live another 51 years, so I'm optimistic. We listen and watch the new Radio Television of Serbia, so I expected this to be called a new assembly, and in this new Radio TV of Serbia, we have as the main player of a gentleman who didn't know much about the game, and now he's involved in politics, so we have if it's the only difference instead of Goran Matic and Ivan Markovic every night that Mr Batic and Mr Covic are talking about it, and if that's the news then let the citizens admit it's a newspaper. But it doesn't look like it. You also said that no friends, relatives and party activists will be employed by your party, so ask in Novi Sad, since it is closest to me and I won't comment on any others, there your relatives and party activists have been in charge since 1996 in combination with others, and now in this DOS group, let them tell you how much public enterprises and institutions have been hiring, how long some others have managed to survive, directors of public enterprises, one two Fridays, and now they've been rejuvenating, and there's some director has been so many years that I've almost committed a red pioneer scarf. There's a director there, for example. He's so old, I almost tied up the red pioneer scarf, because if he was so old, then I'm 48 years younger, so it would be good for us to talk about it. You listen to us, and you don't listen, and it's good, I'm glad we're choosing a new government today. The day before yesterday, it was almost a hairline, how disciplined you were, that you didn't pass the law for two votes, and it's a good thing that you gathered here to do it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u276	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u277	I will not talk much about the exposé of the Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic, my colleagues have said a lot, and plus that I would not fit in if I wanted to, and it is not an indication of every segment of this programme to speak of and I could not fit in within these 10 minutes, limited. I left an impressive one of the terms of office, which he said in the oral part of the presentation, and I also read it in the written part. It reads about (ordinarily I followed it) - before we go into serious reforms, or parallel with them, we have to first come to terms with the past. What was the past, very well commented by the head of my MP club, the SPS, and I won't, but I would also now ask one other question -- who will come to mind and who will account for those unloved events and unholy actions that took place after 24 September and 5 October? I'm just going to tax them, to simply point out that this sentence -- the peaceful October revolution -- is not holding water, and practically, that's not it. Physical attacks are taking place against participants in power and political members of parties that do not belong to DOS, arson and arson in their houses, and during public gatherings, 24 buildings and seats of the SPS are either destroyed or burned, demoted or damaged. All the equipment and everything more valuable than the art stuff was taken away. Taking away property and expensive equipment in radio and television studies was a daily phenomenon. To all those who think differently, as publishing and news, everything has been taken away from them and simply destroyed. In the King, for example, Studio TVS was set on fire, and normally, before that all the equipment was taken away. It's October 5th. The consequences are catastrophic. Exactly. First of all, about 50 stores were robbed that night, and what's worst, two victims were. More than 135 citizens have been injured, and a large number of MPs have been injured. It was destroyed, damaged or burned by 158 vehicles, of which 98 official vehicles of the MUP. The most tragic could have been, but fortunately not, because that night was taken, or stolen, better say, 836 pieces of weapons, and that - 15 rifles, 15 machine guns, 359 automatic rifles, 312 guns, 25 sniper rifles. It's all in the Republic MUP report, so if you want, you can check it out. 14 chemical guns, four bomb shocks, 68 chemical bombs, and a lot of ammunition. But I'm asking you -- what if it were to go from the other side, how many victims would it be then? After October 5th, crisis headquarters and strike committees are formed, and 69 major companies have been forced into violent shifts by managing and managing authorities. What the consequences were, someone had already said that these companies were mostly standing. And as far as this was planned-- I'll just remind you of a statement by one of your leaders (and that leader is Velja Ilic), who said, when asked -- how fast and solid the direction of that coup was being directed, he said -- well, that's what we've been preparing for a few months. Groups were prepared to break through the cordons, people were prepared to set fire to the Assembly, which would provoke the militia. Thus, it was literally being prepared for a few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u278	Mr. Bajic, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u279	I'd also like to refer to a few sentences of Mr. Prime Minister. He said independent media, independent judiciary. Absolutely at this point, and I won't doubt that the future Prime Minister doesn't think so, but given what the media is like at this time, it's the best comment your member, Mr. Koraq, made when he said that he was disgusted by editorial policy and courteous behavior of the media. So that's what your member said. If such courts were, then we can assume that we would be tried just as the Cypriot courts judge Serbs in Kosovo. The same sentence -- talking to loyal Albanians and uncompromising resistance to terrorists. I absolutely support that sentence. But the immediate question - so why do they run that those who opposed terrorists, and that is uncompromising, are trying to "to the point" deliver them to The Hague tribunal? Is tomorrow necessary, too, for this uncompromising resistance to terrorists, let's say Mr Djindjic suggests for The Hague? I would never vote for any Serb or Djindjic for any loyal citizen to be sent to The Hague. Therefore, if you have already mentioned that you are fighting uncompromisingly, then act like one. As for personal solutions in the government, I would only ask two questions - who can trust ministers, say, the minister of justice and the police who are already, and before they are enthroned, accused, arrested, tried and judged? So they don't need any courts, no prosecutions, no jury, no defenses. I don't think it's appropriate for people who need to lead such significant resources tomorrow, to behave like that. Since I believe that in a few dozen minutes, Mr Djindjic will be elected Prime Minister, I would ask a direct question, since it is an amannet of citizens -- namely, there are over 100,000 citizens in Vojvodina who are connected to the gas, in broad consumption, do not take my word for it, but there are about 30,000 connections in Novi Sad. For December the month was accounts, sir, future Prime Minister, between six and seven thousand on average. I believe that you will immediately be faced with this problem, as this issue will certainly be raised, how do you think it will help these citizens overcome this problem, because literally none of these citizens can pay that value of the bill. This is especially what they believe to be citizens of the second row, because some citizens are five or six times cheaper, while these have five or six times bigger accounts. I think you'll have this problem already at your first cabinet session, and I expect you to take all the steps to help these citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u280	There is a word from MP Radojko Petrovic, and after that, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u281	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, in the exposé of Prime Ministers, is told once in a statement that it will take care of even regional development. This is usually a constitutional obligation. It is a constitutional obligation to take care of and encourage the development of underdeveloped areas. There's nothing to be said about it in the exposé, there's no reference to it. A coherent regional development, which seeks to reduce differences in development, is logical to be one of the basic strategic objectives of the Republic. By the degree of development, the Republic of Serbia has several differences. A significant part of Serbia makes up economically underdeveloped areas. This primarily refers to mountainous and mountainous areas, areas away from developed economic centres, the border areas of the Republic and the Raško-Polim area. It is particularly specific because of the different national composition of the population, as well as what has affected and what circumstances have made this area undeveloped. In addition to this general rule, which applies to other areas, that it is mountain-mounted, that it is far from developed commercial centres, we have specificities such as that it was not until 1912 that the area was freed from the Ottoman Empire, that it was late in development, that the first industrial enterprise was built in 1951 in the area, that it was only connected to the railway in 1976 to build the Belgrade-Bar railway. There is a marked population migration due to underdevelopment and even changes in the national population structure in the area. Although migration is due to underdevelopment, there are forces that represent it in different ways, all of which creates harmful political and other charges. That's what certain forces use. Just take the situation, I believe it's more or less familiar to everyone, take the SDA party and the Sandzak Autonomy Memorandum. Normally, they use this force on both sides and all that damages the citizens of Serbia, Montenegro, Muslim nationality and all the citizens living in the area, but it does considerable damage to Serbia. I think this government must take care of this, because even regional development and fostering the development of underdeveloped areas is an important part of Serbia's overall development, social and demographic policies. The SPS is committed to a balanced regional development and to foster faster development of economically underdeveloped areas. Over the past difficult period, she has made significant efforts in this direction, invested in the economy, in building local roads, in water supply, in building a PTT network, in education, in health care. The previous government passed a law on underdeveloped areas for the period from 1996 to 2005. It's been passed and the Development Fund Act is still in force. It would be good if the prime minister of the government took note of how the government is considering resolving this issue in the future. Is it for these purposes that funds will be allocated from public income, I mean from the budget, will they prescribe tax relief, will part of the funds be directed from international loans, from donations? Today, however, the prime minister did not say whether the government would seek war damage from NATO, which would mean a lot to the area, which otherwise suffered major destruction and major damage. Whether other institutions will also be asked to help develop, I mean the Roads Directorate, the Water, Electricity, PTT, etc., for education, health, social protection and more. Normally, these areas need to be provided and invested on the principles of solidarity and economic rationality. Solidarity is necessary to ensure that basic living needs are met - education, health care, child protection, etc. An exposé says -- a new law on local self-government allows decentralisation of government and finance. What does that mean for underdeveloped municipalities, decentralisation of finance? So where, because I can't handle it anyway, not decentralisation. What are they going to provide and meet these needs of the citizens? If the government does not deal with these issues permanently, there will certainly be no stability in this area, neither economic, social, nor political. They will be dissatisfied and developed and undeveloped. The developed will always think that they are devoting some large resources, and the undeveloped areas and municipalities will be dissatisfied, because they are neglected, instead of approaching the level of development, the gap will increase even further and they will lag behind. I expect the government to use the experience of developed countries in this regard. The European Union countries are incentivising within their countries, which do not have an average level of development. Both Italy and Switzerland have their own municipalities, for which they allocate certain means of rapid development in these areas. So I believe that the government will take this into account and have its constructive position on this issue, that it will pay attention to these areas starting with rapid development and reducing the degree of lagging behind in development.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u282	There is a word from MP Jovan Todorovic, followed by Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I am Jovan Todorovic, an SPS MP from Loznica. I listened carefully to the opening statement of our future Prime Minister, and then carefully read the text, which was divided to us as MPs of the National Assembly. A few sentences first of all about the exposé itself. It seems to me that for this opportunity the exposure could have been something more concrete, with clearer indicators, based on which we, MPs and citizens, who follow this assembly and also the directors of many economic operators could define their economic strategy and policy in 2001. However, it has been said that the basis of this exposure is DOS, but then it was likely that the programme should be shared with all MPs, regardless of which parliamentary party they belong, so that we could clearly see what the basic definitions of Mr Djindjic's exposé apply to. So take this as a well-intentioned criticism, without intending to challenge some of the basic definitions in this exposé. Of course, I, like all of you MPs, would like our citizens to have a good part of this programme, and especially that part that concerns economic and economic and economic reforms and that promises us a better life in the coming period. It is true that I would be much more pleased if I had heard here today, which will be a social gross product achieved in 2001, which we will have national income per capita based on economic parameters at the end of 2002, 2003, or at the end of the term of office of this government or at any end of the term of office of this government. However, we learn from the exposé that at the end of 2001 we will be able to buy the entire consumer basket. How much that basket will cost, we still don't know. Which will be the average profit in Serbia, we still don't know that, but we know, according to the mandater's promise, that we will be able to buy the entire consumer basket for that money. Well, that's better than this fact that we have 70% of the payment opportunities to buy. I'm telling you the truth, but I'd like to know what salary is in some nominal amount, with which I could, as a man of the economy, get into some plans for 2001 and next year. I suppose, in a later debate, the ministers in charge of other ministries, who have ties to economic activity, will give more exact information. So that I don't waste my time, I'm going to go in line on this exposé and say a few of my well-intentioned criticisms about all this. For example, the part concerning Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija -- I am fully agreed that the problem with Albanians should be addressed by agreement, agreement, democratic means. But I remind Mr Djindjic and all of us MPs, that we did it in the previous period. Have we forgotten that the previous government of Mirko Marjanovic has been in Pristina for 16 days and discussed with representatives of Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija. Then came terrorist attacks, followed by Racak, and the culmination of all this was bombing. So I am not an excessively large optimist in terms of the Albanians being ready to exercise their rights by democratic means in this country. Because I haven't heard a single statement yet, that any Albanian has given up Kosovo, or an independent state of Kosovo. On the other hand, when it comes to southern Serbia, when it comes to Medvedja, Presevo and Bujanovac, I remind you of the fact that US General Jackson went on TV and said that members of the Kosovo Liberation Army are disarmed. You and the so disarmed Albanians beat up heavy weapons by members of our army and police, right in those parts of our Republic. Can we also act in this situation by asking them nicely to leave our territory, not to kill our officers and our soldiers and expect them to accept it? I'm showing a rational caution here. When the state shows its strength and when it has all its resources, it responds to terrorism, which is obviously present there, then most likely, we will be at risk of the international community being strongly resented, and later sanctioned and that the whole scenario, in some sense, is repeated. I heard a new expression here today - an economic crime. However, the prime minister said it may be an exaggerated word, but I ask in this place, what will be our government's determination of all other crimes. In this place, I want to say that I haven't heard from anyone yet, that Hashim Thaci is a war criminal, that Albright is a war criminal, that Clinton is a war criminal, that the war criminals who bombed this country, who have destroyed everything that's been a generation since 1945, so they've been creating and doing war damages that, according to some indicators, I've heard here today, measured at $30 billion, and with indirect damage, it's certainly about a hundred billion dollars. What will be the relationship of this future government to these and such crimes? Will these issues be raised by the international community and the UN tribunal, not persistently and all the time, whether our people, Serbs, our citizens are delivered or not to The Hague, or we will judge them in our country. But I would leave that political component in this exposé, and I would return to something that I think is relevant for all of us MPs, and also for the citizens, above all to some economic issues that are present here, the truth, too, too, in principle, but from some of the specifics of this exposé, we can discern the basic objectives of our future government. I say ours, because there's no doubt that this government will be elected tonight. And, so be it, there's a parliamentary majority here who'll do it. But the Socialists have the right to point out some of the things they think are in this programme, but also in the future, by implementing this programme, they can fix. Let's say, as a businessman, I welcome the government's definition of significantly reducing taxes and contributions to profits. But I'd like to know in this place how much reductions there will be in 2001, is that 15%, is that 20%, so that we can increase, if nothing else, pay for that amount and get close to that goal that our average family can buy that consumer basket for the pay in December 2001. Furthermore, I fully welcome the commitment that in future time the advantage is given to small and medium-sized enterprises, to provide them with favourable loans. I'd also like to know in which industries we'll have priority over small and medium-sized enterprises. That's not what we're talking about here. I suppose the departments in charge can make that thing concrete, but obviously, here is the question, what small businesses are and what are credit funds. I understand from the exposé that mostly counts on foreign funds. Are we going to have domestic credits, as an incentive to develop small and medium-sized enterprises? For me, it's like a businessman is one of the key issues, because what we're going to get from the West or from foreign partners is, in a way, in a long stick. We have had to launch intensive economic development in this country since February of the month. To try to make up for all the consequences and NATO aggression and ten years of sanctions and to get to the point that really as citizens, as people, we live better. It has been said that there will be increased employment and that for the first time in 10 years it will be positive. How positive? Whether 1%, 2%, all of them are just parameters that matter to us to plan our own business life. We don't have them on display here. I support the definition of medium and small enterprises, but at the same time I'm asking the question, what are we going to do with big businesses? I think this government is going to face a very serious problem on the subject of large businesses. In this place, I would like to ask Mr Djindjic, as future Prime Minister, what will be the government's relationship to the previous decisions of the former government? I have a few more important things to say because economic life depends on how we all live as citizens. Whether we have free education and health care or not. In this place I have to ask Commissioner Djindjic - You said in your oral presentation that we will have free elementary and secondary education, and in the exposé it says - we will have a solid education and health care. So it's solid and free, and Minister Gasco is telling the newspaper that we're going to have to pay for secondary education in the future. Is that true or isn't it true, or is that some kind of break-up? Finally, and if the specifics of the program are correct that we will have free elementary and secondary education, I wonder what will happen to higher education. Will only those children whose parents have enough funds to study or will be influenced by quality in high school? I want to take advantage of the opportunity, since Mr Djindjic, according to my information, will be our guest, exactly the guest of the password municipality in Banja Koviljaca on February 3rd or 4th, because there will be an annual assembly and the Democratic Party Executive Board, I would like to take the opportunity to invite him to be a guest at Viskoza. Allow me just a minute to say something about "Viscosis" because the previous government adopted a production and financial consolidation program "Viscosis". Gentlemen, you must know that Viskoza was an exporter with $100 million a year, that it was achieving an annual surplus of 80 million a year, that this programme adopted by the previous government had predicted a foreign exchange surplus of over 200 million marks for the next four years. That only in 2000 was 20 million foreign exchange surplus marks to be realized. Just so you know, by October 5th, the Viskoza, from May to October, exported 12 and a half million marks to the world market, and from October 5 to 31. 11. Only 500 thousand marks. Unfortunately, the whole Viskoza has stopped and I'm asking you to treat the government's conclusions as a good host, what's said - we're not going to touch what's right, and what's wrong, we're going to change. Therefore, let us realise the government's conclusion and decision in the period of revitalisation and resuscitation of production in Viskoza.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u284	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people Velimir Zivojinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u285	I listened carefully to future Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. I would now point to several of the most important questions, the most important things that are said in his exposé. First, it is concluded that for Serbia's general development, the first condition is general political stability. We all absolutely agree in the SPS that the issue of Cosmeta, the occupation of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje and relations with Montenegro is that these are priority issues. Today, four months after DOS authorities on all these major state issues, the situation is far worse than before 24 September. In Kosovo and Metohija, Cypriot terrorists savage, kill Serbs, kidnap, rob. In the so-called security zone, Bujanovac and Presevo, the Cypriots occupied 600km of Serbian countries. The prime minister promised us, somewhere in early December, that we would have that territory cleaned up somewhere on December 24th, and I personally supported that idea, because I know very well that there are no specific negotiations with the Shiptars. When it comes to Montenegro, the situation is much worse. In our time of power, Milo Djukanovic could only dream of calling a referendum and seceding. He kept saying he had time for it, time works for him. Since the DOS came to power, Milo Djukanovic has decided to split immediately. He'll probably do it. Because the forces that are Yugoslav-oriented in Montenegro will hardly win the 22 April elections. What many will not like here, but I must say that when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, the most stable situation, when we talk about the situation of Serbs, was in the time of 1988-98, means in the time of the rule of Slobodan Milosevic. Yeah, that's right. How can I not brag when it's true? [[Tossing in the O.R.]] Here I would also call the president of the Serbian Radical Party, Vojislav Seselj, because he sometimes amazes me, when he says that negotiations in Kosovo and Metohija should have taken place sooner or that we could have solved the situation earlier. We were never able to solve this situation, because they simply didn't come to the negotiations, and what did they want and what did they want? They want their country. The Shiplars had all minority rights, rights that no minority national community in the world has. That's true. A special place in the exposé has taken up the idea of decentralisation. You know that in Serbia, the environment has been functioning for eight years. The districts may not be the happiest solution, but the districts have also shown their justification. They had certain shortcomings and decentralisation could only refer to the elimination of these shortcomings and these shortcomings. I'd like to ask the future prime minister here what decentralisation of power and finance means, when the word is, for example, about the police, when it comes to the judiciary, when it comes to these crucial state bodies. The experiences of the Serbian people and the 1980s are bitter, where police chiefs were, where the presidents of the courts were some others. In the 1990s, we changed it, rightly, with full right. Also, when we talk about health care. Health care is based on the principle of solidarity. That principle of solidarity is already collapsing. The Duke's leadership is already talking about how the tills will separate. It's not a big spill, but it's 10% for now. Also, in close Serbia, maybe one to seven municipalities could cover the health care of their population. Everything else is on the principle of solidarity and the principle of overpouring. How will this problem be solved? If, for example, it works in a Cupria, which has a highly developed health center, if local self-government should cover the health costs of its insurance companies, it will never be able to do so because it has such an economic structure that it cannot cover. Even worse is the situation with small municipalities, which cannot cover even the functioning of their homes of health, so they will be abolished. If anything should be free in this country, it should be health care. From that point of view, I believe, when it comes to the tax system and the reduction of obligations in the tax system and contributions, that at least in this part, it takes health care rates to remain the same or at least to replace the funds in a different way, first of all from the budget. There were also words about the unemployment rate in our country, the Republic. The higher unemployment rate is in many other countries, not in Serbia and not in Yugoslavia. The unemployment rate is higher in both Romania and Bulgaria. Well, Romanians and Bulgarians work in Serbia, and not Serbs go to Bulgaria and Romania. On the other hand, one of the important data, in Republika Srpska, the unemployment rate is 41%, which is the state that had, at the time of Dodik, of course, great help, the issuing aid to the West. I think this government of ours is going to get away with it, too, so it's going to get the same help that Dodik got. But unfortunately, I would hate for this people to pass as a people in Republika Srpska. Prime Minister, the future prime minister hasn't told us anything about war damage. You know well that NATO activists killed more than 2,000 civilians, that they bombed both roads and bridges and economic objects that mean life to us, but not only that, using poor uranium, and that clearly says that NATO's target wasn't the Free Milosevic regime. The NATO Pact was targeted by the Serbian people and the Serbian state, clearly. Another question for the future prime minister. He's not going to release the Ship's terrorists, is he? It is not an amnesty for those who have killed us, who have committed so many crimes to the Serbian people, not only in the last ten years, but before. In the end, about these personnel solutions. It is a matter of future prime minister, and the SPS will not vote for these solutions. I mean, when it comes to the candidate, someone mentioned Health Minister Nada Kostic, she doesn't deserve to be a candidate at all, and everyone is better than Nada Kostic, because she legalized her crisis headquarters that were in health institutions from October 5th to today. In the end, I think there is a scenario coming up about Serbia's final crackdown and decommissioning. But the Socialists remain clean, because we have done everything we can to protect the vital national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u286	The president of the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not true that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija could not have been resolved before. It could have been in 1990, when Serbia's new constitution was adopted. Every provision on territorial autonomy, both for Vojvodina and for Kosovo and Metohija, was to be expelled from the Constitution. Our party then insisted on it, and the Socialists, who had a monopoly on the adoption of the constitution, thought that only the competences of autonomous provinces should be aware of some optimal measure and all of this would function normally. That's where they made a big mistake. We now have a situation where what has begun, rocking has grown to inconceivable proportions. Today, the Vojvodina Assembly is declaring new constitutional solutions, new laws, it ranks in the same rank with Serbia and is already opening with a request for the Republic, to obtain the status of a federal unit. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, nothing has been done there for years, and much could have been done in 1991, 1992 and all the following years, until 1998. The one who was in power. [[- Who's to blame?]] Do you know who was in power: the Socialist Party of Serbia, New Democracy, and then JUL joined, etc. Radicals came into power only when everything was in critical condition and when Americans directly interfered in Kosovo and Metohija. While Kosovo and Metohija served to secure unlimited amounts of votes, authorities replied that the status quo was maintained there. The Shipsters completely strayed from the system, built a parallel system, but it did not bother the authorities, nor the Socialists, nor their allies at the time, because they were able to add an unlimited number of votes to the name of registered citizens of the Cypriot nationality, who did not go to the polls, to add themselves. That's a fact. When it burned to the nail, then they cried out, no matter what earlier arrests, all the conflicts, to this, to what, they had no one to turn to, but to the radicals, because the earth was already on fire. She's scheduled an army, scheduled the police, scheduled the state as a whole. However, from all this I had no intention of speaking, that Mr. Bushetic had not challenged me with his statement, that nothing could have been solved before. It could've gotten rid of everything. But from everything that's happened, I have no intention now, you know, of the Socialists being a challenge to me while they were strong and powerful to cross the spear with them. From all of this, it takes a touch power to learn a lesson. Knin had to defend himself because Belgrade was defending itself in Knin. Knin was handed over by the Belgrade regime. Republika Srpska had to defend itself because it defended Belgrade there. Republika Srpska was handed over, first one-third, then the Dayton Agreement. The Kosovo and Metohija, of course Montenegro, now raises the issue of Vojvodina in two ways and threatens the threat in the Rasko region, or Sandzak, as some call it. What lesson does DOS have to learn from all this? When Milosevic was constructive towards Western forces, when he was cooperative, he was celebrated as the main American ally in the Balkans. He was the chief confidant. Chief partner. It took a few years. While he was the partner in chief, we rotted in prisons. This partnership, as far as Americans are concerned, lasts very briefly. Two or three years. Then Milosevic was written off. That's when he did one phase of work. It was Biljana Plassic's turn. It was celebrated by all the Western media. She was the first lady, she was gladly received, welcomed with open arms. Here she is now, in front of The Hague tribunal, as the glorious court says good morning. That's what he said to a dying deep woman's voice. She's been practicing before. You see what is happening now with the DOS regime, and, above all, Kostunica and all the other leaders, is not far from it either, Mr Djindjic, or everyone else. [[Laughter and apalaus.]] At the time of the straw Milosevic, they were everyone's favorites. Aided from the West, large sums of money are set aside, etc. Kostunica is welcomed everywhere by open arms, honours indicate, he performs tasks, renounces continuity, submits a request for admission to the UN as newly formed states, for all international organisations, etc. And one request at a time. Now they've come with a request for The Hague tribunal. It will not be kept only on Milosevic and two, three. As far as I'm concerned, you're looking forward to it for nothing, because I'd have traveled there long ago than not given me a Dutch visa. [[Laughter]] Now, officially, through Mr Djindjic, I'm going to make a request through the Serbian government to finally give me that visa, to travel to The Hague a little bit. [[Laughter]] It won't stop at that. There will be many from this government. First, it will start with the Chief of Staff, and in turn to Djindjic, who ate ox at the Palace. Where it stands, in some order of the UN tribunal that they cannot judge a man, a Serb, because he is the ox of the Palace. [[Laughter]] I can. If they can judge Momcila Krajisnik, who was only the president of the National Assembly, he never had any commanding responsibilities, and why not the one who ate the ox at the barbecue or the one who gave the political speeches, doing this, doing it, or being familiar with Radovan Karadzic and the leadership of the Paljani.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u288	Mr. Seselj, I warn you to stick to your agenda. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u289	I stick to the agenda, today the government is elected, all of what I'm saying is very much about the new government, and I'm giving her advice, after all. Just laugh, I'll laugh the last time, all the chances. [[Laughter]] And that won't take long. The moment you do not want to meet all the requirements, at the moment you will be written off, another, more ready, more ready to surrender immediately to the entire Vojvodina, to surrender the entire Raška area, to divide Serbia into regions, into the rest of Serbia, to completely destroy the Serbian state. That's what they do in Republika Srpska. A lesson needs to be learned from Republika Srpska. Biljana did hers - written off, Dodik did hiss - written off, now Ivanic, it is a British man, in turn, he will do in one phase of his business and the West goes on. The lesson for you is that the West can't be trusted anything, that the West doesn't think well of the Serbian people and the Serbian state, and that no rotten compromises should be agreed upon, that they should not be yielded to their demands, which touch our state sovereignty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u290	The president of the SPS Parliamentary Group, Mr Ivkovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a replica, not a third date for a pay phone. Tonight we choose the Government of the Republic of Serbia and surely we should look ahead, think about development, make our country modern and efficient. Since some of the thesis on the past has emerged, and in this context the SPS is mentioned, I decided to come forward briefly for a comment. It makes me uncomfortable to return to 1974 and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear to everyone how Serbia looked with two of those around the door, which were separate states and took care, as tutors, of that environment between Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. We, by bringing the Constitution, i.e. influencing the adoption of the Constitution of the new Republic of Serbia, have in fact formed the Republic of Serbia as a republic equal to the other republics in the former Yugoslavia. However, with full right, we have considered keeping them on hold because of the specificity of autonomy both in Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. I would like to point out that in 1991 and 1992, 1993, 1994, from the Uryzdin settlement in Pristina, much step by step has been done to bring people closer together in Kosovo and Metohija. The result was very good. Many forget that 150,000 Albanians worked despite Ibrahim Rugova's stance in business systems and state authorities in Kosovo and Metohija. One fact many in this room forget. They forget to meet in Crete in 1997, when the first people of the Southeast European countries gathered, when they expressed their intention on the duty-free union of Yugoslavia, Greece, Bulgaria and other countries, about the meeting of then-President of the SRJ, Mr Slobodan Milosevic and Fatos Nano, on many steps that were then agreed to go to Knin. It was a signal from the old US administration, to move Agim Ceku from Gospić to Kosovo, to organise Thaci and create separatism and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. Speaking of events related to the Republika Srpska and the Republika Srpska Krajina, I must remind you again that it was Belgrade who insisted on a decision to adopt the Vens-Oven plan, that it was Belgrade that sent its delegation with leading people to influence Republika Srpska's parliament to bring peace back to 1994. However, Serbs have shown their head, their stubbornness, and when it comes to Republika Srpska, and when it comes to Republika Srpska. Therefore, do not mix the leaders of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia at the time, and I myself witnessed certain events, when some leading Serbs torn up the Z-4, which guaranteed them and what a good position, Serbs in Republika Srpska. That's all I came forward for, it was a replica, and I'm holding right to another statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u292	Third time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Wens-Oven's plan was incomparably worse than the Dayton Agreement. According to Vance-Oven, there were no entities in Republika Srpska at all. Republika Srpska is divided into national, ethnic or religious mixed cantons, with the aim of dividing Serbian territory, eastern and western parts, that it has no territorial connection. We Serbian radicals are proud to have contributed to the collapse of the Vens-Oven plan, which you Socialists have deliberately advocated, even convened a general Serb assembly at the Sava-centre. All other parties participated in this. All parties supported them except us. Furthermore, as far as the Dayton Agreement is concerned, only the Serbian Radical Party was against it. The Socialists also accepted New Democracy, and all other opposition parties supported it. When we wanted to discuss it in the Federal Assembly, then you shut down direct television transmissions. And since then, there has been no direct television transmissions in the Federal Assembly. That's what the facts are. On Kosovo and Metohija, the entire National Assembly accepted, except for Serbian radicals, the Chernomidin-Ahtisari Plan, and this was supported by all the opposition parties, only we were determined to oppose it. The Chernomidin-Ahtisari plan meant losing sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija, its occupation. We had a debate in this congregation, and that was when we warned you about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u294	Mr. Seselj, please stick to the subject. This is a debate about the Government Programme, not a duel between the Radicals and the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u295	Look, this is a very important topic, because the history of life is a teacher and cannot be debated about a new government unless something about our closer past is also affected, and it will burden the new government in its work for sure. It's an inherited condition...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u296	Now we're discussing the government's domain, not socialist.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u297	There is a certain political responsibility for this inherited situation. What is the situation as it is responsible are all other parties other than the Serbian Radical Party. If we had endured another 15-20 days during the war, there would have been more destruction, there would have been more casualties, but the NATO Pact could have given up on further bombing, because there were certain contradictions, oppositions, contradictions that would have led to this, at a critical moment, there was actually a capitulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u298	The word has a folk MP, Velimir Zivojinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u299	Dear MPs, I think a lot has been said and should be said. I didn't sign up to speak in person. That means some bitch's already started. We'll see what it ends up on. I think it's too soon to talk about some things, to criticize them, because nothing's started yet. And I'm one of those who likes to wait, which Matija Beckovic would say "there's time, we'll have a daughter more".
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u300	The word is from the People's Messenger Zivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u301	Dear President, honourable MPs, I listened carefully to the exposés of the new Republican government's new Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic. With special attention, I was expecting a portion of the exposé that would refer to the future government's policy towards agriculture, according to that important one, I would say the most important branch of convulsion in this country, and I did not welcome it. That's the least unexpected thing to say, I'm not going to use another term. The future government's policy towards agriculture had to be top priority in the mandater's exposé. Both by position, and by space and content, and by concrete and clear messages from which farmers and all those living on earth and from the ground could recognize their place, as well as expectations of the new government's policy towards them. For agriculture, places had to be found in the exposé because of the importance of this branch, but also because of respect for the fact that farmers produced enough food and fed the population by their efforts and efforts in the previous decade. Agriculture, working both in unfavourable climate and economic conditions, is often without enough fuel, artificial fertilisers, repromaterials, outdated machinery and without adequate financial support, brought into a rather difficult economic position. Simply, there was no other way out, under the conditions of sanctions agriculture had to bear the burden of time and in the conditions in which we lived. Simply put, we stayed both as a state and as a people in debt to agriculture and farmers. He owes farmers today and future president Djindjic, and it is less important that he remains in debt today, it is more important that all together, as of tomorrow, and a set of new governments, we do not remain in debt to agriculture in the future. We are now working and operating on conditions without sanctions, and I expect that the new government will repay agriculture policy towards agrarian, not only because of farmers, but also because of the fact that Serbia is an agrarian country and that any more serious development is conditioned by the development of agricultural production. I would refer to the question of lending agricultural production, painful and in the last five six years unresolved issues when agricultural production is at stake. You heard in the daily conversation that we are going back to the analysis of the cause of the difficult situation in agriculture, and I have a dilemma about what has contributed to the most difficult situation. One, the fact is that production has been achieved in the last ten years under a number of restrictions, often without enough repromation, without credit support, in conditions of damaged parity, both external and internal. Of course, this drought, which took place in 2000, has, to a greater extent, only made the situation difficult in this area anyway. The direct effects of drought or damage, as a consequence of drought, are about a billion and 480 million marks in 2000. It also affected such a difficult situation in this area, in agricultural production, that we call it the elementary disaster, which has been going on since 1994, and it is still going on, since the time when famous Professor Avramovic recognized the directly harmful fact of lending agricultural production under more favourable conditions for the launch of inflation. I am free to express my opinion that the economic consequences of this kind of economic policy are significantly greater in a material sense than these two previous causes. The professor was wrong, the consequences remained, but I am extremely afraid of the protagonists of the new monetary authorities and policies, to follow Professor Avramovic's policy, which would definitely mean the end of more serious or serious agricultural production. Therefore, in the first place of the move of the new government in this area, I expect the already verified model of financing agricultural production to be established, under conditions that respect all specificities of this production, to return to that model that we had until 1994 or to adopt some of the world's already known models in this area, in the area of lending of agricultural production. Secondly, no less significant, I expect an agrarian budget, which would be autonomous in the sources of formation and autonomy in its function from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to be established for 2001 and next year. The agricultural budget has been living since 1995. He endured all criticism and the struggle of time, and we must agree that, despite all criticism and certain weaknesses, he played a significant role in preserving agricultural production, especially livestock production, and in particular milk production. I would suggest that the new budget proposals, no matter where it was or what it was called, amount to at least what it was in 1995, when the agrarian budget was set up, and to remind me that the agrarian budget was then 14% of the total value of agricultural production. I expect that the future government and MPs of the ruling majority, who will make a decision without the opposition minority, will review the stenographic notes of their discussions or recall pre-election stories on the subject of agriculture and the position of farmers and realize that the word, thought or idea at that time commits them today. If someone has forgotten or is trying to forget what they said on the subject of agriculture, I remind you that farmers are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u302	The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u303	Dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, as an MP coming from Kosovo and Metohija, I would like to make a contribution to today's work of our Parliament and to look for answers to more questions. The relationship towards Kosovo and Metohija in the last four months has been quite ignoring, as the focus of interest from Kosovo and Metohija has been shifted to southern Serbia, to the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedju. In Kosovo and Metohija, 120,000 Serbs have to live, which must be given exceptional attention. With Kosovo and Metohija, 350,000 people have been expelled, 350,000 souls are now located in different parts of Serbia, in its grief for the lost lives of its loved ones, for the graves of its ancestors and for the destroyed homes. But they're all dignified. So far, they have been assisted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Regional Executive Council, the Centre for Peace and Tolerance and the Yugoslav Committee. These days, the federal government has formed a new Yugoslav Committee, and I am convinced that it will continue to do what the previous Yugoslav Committee did, in the interest of the rest and survival of the Serb people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. In your exposé, I would like to know, on behalf of all these people, Mr. Prime Minister, in no sentence did you mention what would the Government of the Republic of Serbia do to get the exiled Serbs back to their centuries-old hearths? In your exposé, you stressed (quote): "Albanians from Kosovo are told - circumstances have changed, be moderate and reasonable, otherwise you might happen to go on a blind track of history, as well as to find a new way of co-existence between Serbia and Cosmeta", so I am interested - what did you want to say? If we look back and look behind us, we can see that the separatist movement in Kosovo dates back over 100 years, the armed conflicts were, first with the boats, then with the ballistics, and today with the terrorists. History has taught us that whenever a foreign factor interfered in Kosovo and Metohija, there has always been a persecution of Serbs, there have always been injuries, beginning with Arsenija Charnojevic until today. Driven by torment and grief, fear of coma and rape, slaughter, Serbs left their hearths and settled in different places. Their pain is heavy, and their sorrow is great. But one thing is certain -- everyone's heart remains tied to Kosovo and Metohija. I would like you to answer me - what will the Albanians get if they are moderate and reasonable? The former U.S. administration, as well as many great forces in history, has now invented and formed so-called. The KLA, as a potential factor in our region's instability. It is simple, then, that when the people are expelled and the territory is lost, then those who remain, there remains the possibility of creating their own state. But natural laws are merciless, on other people's ashes and incinerations do not build their foundation, the foundation of the future. I ask you on behalf of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija -- what will be the position of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the Kouchner local elections, which are only a step towards an independent Kosovo? What will be the position of the future government of the Republic of Serbia on the statement by Kushner's successor, Hans Hackerup, who immediately after his arrival in Pristina said his primary task is to call general elections, and calling general elections means the adoption of statutes, then the constitution, and normal, independence. Since you've met, Mr. Djindjic, with the attorney of the NATO, prosecutor Carl Del Ponte, I'd like to ask you, if you know, if she's prepared closed envelopes with indictments for the outgoing political figure of the US administration, Mrs. Albright, Mr. Clinton, Blair, Clark and Solana? The list, of course, is not final, but this is a list of those who in their pathological exultation issued orders to bomb our country for 78 days uninterrupted, who sowed death over our territory. In 78 days, 116 rockets and bombs fell to the Kosovo Mitrovica municipality alone, and the consequences of what the reports have released have been given these days by officials from the Health Centre in Kosovo Mitrovica. What does your statement, Mr Djindjic, published on the Internet today, mean that within two to three months, by changing the law in this assembly, you will allow the UN tribunal's uninterrupted work in our country? Will NATO's lawyer, prosecutor Del Ponte, the entire Serbian people bring the UN tribunal to justice, just because he was unique and only because he defended his country? Now Racak is experiencing his rehabilitation. There were no massacres in Račka, as can be seen in an official report by experts, pathologist Belarus, Finland and Yugoslavia. The massacre wasn't done, and it was a direct cause for the bombing. Will the government of the Republic of Serbia think about the topic of war reparation and seek it on behalf of the dead, mutilated and mentally destabilised, because this is a very serious problem and responsibility for this government? Mr. Djindjic, there's more and more talk about the Amnesty Act. Is it possible that the amnesty of those who, with pleasure, would slaughter and kill on behalf of some illusory ideas, disturbed minds, unreasonable goals? Will the famous Mazarek brothers, the Klecka villains, who raped ten - year - old John mutilate her in front of her mother and then killed and burned her all? Klecka, a sad shelter of unfortunate people, who have been tortured and terrorized by the sick minds, seems to have experienced their vassity through their martyrs. The Mazarek brothers these days were visited by a special representative of the United Nations Council, who spent ten minutes with them in a cell and agreed most likely on how to take them out. And that was announced yesterday by the successor of Kushner Hans Hackerup, who said that all inmates of Albanians, who are in Serbia, must immediately be brought to prison at the premises of Kosovo and Metohija. Crime and criminals amnesty! And what about the dead, what about the victims, should they be forgotten and how to explain to the people in the space of Cosmeta that criminals are free to walk? On behalf of what goals? It looks like democracy. What will the government of the Republic of Serbia do to liberate the kidnapped and aged Serbs? Why isn't there a word about them in your exposure? The Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija and the Serbian people in general after NATO aggression have suffered great harm, pain, pain, mental and physical, moral suffering. What new ways of co-existence, Mr. Prime Minister, in Kosovo and Metohija is to be found? Isn't Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of Serbia? The government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be formed today, has historic responsibility. The responsibility is high, and the burden is heavy. It takes a strong shoulder to get all this out. Do you have such a strong shoulder? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u304	We don't have any more registered speakers. I'm asking the Prime Minister's candidate if he wants a word. Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u305	First of all, I would like to thank all the MPs who have made an effort to present their views on the government's programme, to give their suggestions and criticisms. I also very much thank the DOS MPs, who did not use their right to speak this time, because if they did, this debate would take a long time, and then one day the government would have less to do with what we promised in the program. We, with colleagues from DOS, have had the opportunity to discuss these topics and many others at the time of the campaign, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss the details in the implementation of the programme, so I am sure they will not be denied what they haven't talked about today, they will have the opportunity to talk about these topics further. At the very beginning, I'd like to make one principle comment before I say a few specific things. Using the same methods, you will always achieve the same goal. When you go the same way, you'll always come to the same place. The vast majority of those who spoke had the opportunity to try out the methods they considered correct. And they have achieved the goals they have achieved. Everyone had their chance and history was fair this time. So no one can tell us from the opposition's position that he has better, smarter ideas and that he has something that, if he were able, he would do great. You've been, ladies and gentlemen, on occasion. What you've done, you've done, let us have our chance to try some other way. Of course, when 40 or 50 people speak, one atmosphere is created, and that is the atmosphere of the old way of politics. It's the atmosphere that's ruled this country for ten years. I have difficulty stepping out of that atmosphere, because what we want is a new policy. We want to try some other means to solve problems that you have not solved, from economy to Kosovo, no problem has been solved in this country. All the problems are in such a catastrophic state that you with certain indignation push and confess - yes, here's the burden on your back, you wear them, you solve them. Right, that's why we went to the election, we're here to try and solve them, but not the way you suggest, because if we do what you suggest we do, we'll end up where you end up, and that's in defeat. From economy to Kosovo, it all defeats itself. There's a lot of "good-looking" suggestions about DOS, how DOS is, how many DOS parties there are, and that it can't take it, that it's nowhere in the world. Thank you for asking, DOS is very good. The people voted precisely because there were very different parties and very different people in one place. [[buran applause]] I'll tell you why the people voted for it. Because the people wanted some fundamental changes. The people don't want party politics, ideological politics, at least not in the first few years. The people want something in the foundations of this country to change and they don't believe that anyone can. Even if someone thinks they can, the people don't think that anyone can, can't even two or three parties, there must be plenty of parties, to be a wide range of parties. The people are asking us to tolerate each other, the people are asking us, however many of us are, the more that we are, that's that tighter common denominator, the smallest that has to exist. That's why what we're proposing in the program isn't any party or any other program, that's something this country had to do a long time ago. It is the establishment of a democratic civilization in this country, the establishment of basic democratic foundations. And then the time will come for party policy after that, when these foundations are established, basic laws, fundamental rights, basic institutions. Then all parties on these bases will be able to build their walls, their rooms, or what it will look like in another term, with some other composition of this congregation. So much for doubting whether DOS can withstand a time check and whether DOS can be effective. There have been objections that there are not many concrete things in this program. The programs are always like that. In all other normal democratic countries, such exposures and such programs are always common. They contain general goals and values, orientators, for which the government will stand. Of course it is possible to take from a statistical yearbook, from the Chamber of Commerce data on the state of various branches of our economy, to fill the materials. That might seem concrete, but that would be less concrete than what we're talking about. What's important is that there's a lot of substance in this commitment. You can measure if we do what we say every day. It's not empty stories, there's not many facts, but there's a long line of motion and about the methods we intend to use. There's no mention of, of course, important things. Six hours we could, I talked for an hour only about principles, a few more hours I could talk, along the way, about regional development, health, education, agriculture, gas, oil, refugees, fostering export economy. These are all things that require special programs and of course they are very important, that they are very important, but one exposé is not a place where these things can be spoken out in detail. And, uh, a few specific details, just so there's no misunderstanding. One refers to the administration. Not to be afraid of these 400,000 people employed in health, education and various other budget-funded actions, when we talk about the state administration, then we're thinking about the rank that works for the government. It has about 40,000 in Serbia, 14000 in Belgrade and the rest in the surrounding areas. I said in the first year we're going to cut that number by 20%. I didn't pick 20% by accident. The documentation I reviewed says that from 1994 to 2000, 15% of people were employed additionally in the state administration. At a time when the number of employees in the economy has steadily decreased, the number of employees in the state administration has increased and today is between 20% and 15% higher than it was in 1994. Some of these people were admitted without proper qualifications, when coalitions were created, when governments changed, people were employed. I think 20% of people can be less employed in the administration and keep their quality. I have no intention of reforming it, but for starters, that's all. The difference between the ministry and the vice president's seat is very important. Someone says, here, you have the same, or a slightly smaller number of members of the government. However, we have one third fewer ministries. In one ministry, sometimes thousands or more of people are employed. The vice president has three or four members of his cabinet. If we are talking about costing the government, then we must reduce the number of ministries, gradually transfer the powers of some ministries to government organisations, to government committees, to other ministries, and try to reach the number that would be ideal for our country, which is between 9 and 10 ministries, with around 15,000 employees in those ministries. It is a task we hope to fulfill at the end of this term, or we need so much time for this reform. The government's expenses are not directly linked to each other. When you set up one ministry, you're actually making a huge administration that's very hard to "fuck" and that costs a lot. I'm moving on to much more complicated objections. One refers to Kosovo, and one refers to terrorism. When you talk about Kosovo, I get the impression that you're deliberately harassing normative and what's going on as such, that you'd like it to be like that, that we'd all like it to be like that, but it's life and then you're complaining to me. I say, let's try somehow between Serbia and Kosovo, Albanians in Kosovo to establish some connection to the beginning, that Serbia has some contact with it and that we are gradually trying to improve that impression and see in a year, two, three, when Serbia strengthens, whether that influence we will have, can it be strong enough to satisfy our vital interests. That's an open question. I don't know if we can make it, but the question is, what's the alternative? What alternative do you offer? You want an alternative to close our eyes in front of life and say -- Kosovo is Serbia, to be patriots and to laugh and when you come to your place to laugh and to be your policy. Our policy is very honest. We're aware that we've lost so many chances here, it might be possible to get some of that back again. It's worth a try, we have to try, but if we're fooling ourselves, we're not gonna make it. If we're realistic and we realize that life, maybe we'll make it. You're with your empty patriotism and your heroism, some of you have led to today hardly having any influence as a country on the part of your territory. Part of our border is open to one side of the country. We can't talk about our Constitution seriously, because we don't know part of our territory that has status. We do not know if there is an administrative border between Serbia and Kosovo. What does the administrative limit mean? Can you cross that administrative line as you can between the two countries in the European Community? You can't. How is she administrative? That's all the open questions we've come up with. We're trying to solve them so we have some results, not an excuse. Today we can give a nice speech without anything changing in life, but have some results, minimally, but still results. When it comes to terrorism in southern Serbia, surely the situation is not good. I think it's better today than it was in mid-December. My opinion is that the attack on the territory zone of five kilometers was only the first step and that it was precisely the goal of entering Bujanovac, Presevo, above all, and that the ultimate goal was to cut down the traffic and make Serbia a hostage of armed gangs. So, it's not about terrorists being in the territorial zone, it's about something else. You've been there, you've seen, you can't live there. It's not a place where someone wants to come and stay. It's where they're buried, where they're trying to strengthen their positions, but their goal is something else. For now, they have not achieved that goal. Our information is that, apparently, they are losing international support, this logistics that came from Kosovo and Metohija has stopped coming and that this whole problem is being reduced to armed gangs of locals, which are mainly recruited from Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedje. These gangs also terrorise the Albanian population. It's pretty hard to find a strategy right now. It must be found, because now the state that the government there is unsustainable. It is a condition that not only one part of our territory is not under our control, but one part of our territory is ruled by armed gangs. These are the guys you can see with your naked eye, wearing a kalashnikov, walking around, entering houses, which, according to our information, abuse the Albanian population. In the next short period, we need to find a solution, but in any case, we all know that the current situation is not satisfactory. That solution must be such as to allow lasting security in that part. It's only permanent security that in 24 hours our forces clean up these armed gangs, which is very easy. In itself, it's not a very difficult operation, but the question is, what next day and what in the next year, two or five years, is how long this zone is going to be a high-risk zone. There's a lot of people working in both the police and the military and this transitional government. There are some results achieved and it cannot be pushed as some proof that DOS is unsuccessful, suddenly DOS came to power and suddenly came up with some problem. It's a spark that jumped over from Kosovo, a spark that came from Kosovo, and it's a inherited problem to the same extent as the inherited problem of Kosovo and Metohija. You're talking about the former government's efforts to negotiate and some political means solve the problem. I'm very skeptical of the possibilities, which existed, that the government, some political means, would solve a problem. She had a very low level of political management. It was a government that couldn't do anything with political means, with its population, with its opposition, with journalists in its country, with its students. With no one she could solve a problem with political means, she was unable to use political means. I'm not saying that we were 10 years ago to succeed, but I'm saying that Milosevic didn't have a chance to succeed because he was who he was, and because that government was who it was. Maybe you couldn't get a better power. Maybe, but I'm asking again what's the alternative? If we say, we're not going to use political means, we're not going to try to implement our influence differently than by force, the question is what we're doing, we're not doing anything, or we're waiting for us to become strong, we're waiting for World War III to break out, and we're going to make our interests come true in that third world war. I don't think so. So we have to do what we have to do as reasonable people, which is that we use smartness, where we have no force and try to use the circumstances that go our way, which is that now we're a democratic credibility state. One of the most frequently mentioned topics was decentralisation, it was Vojvodina, it was an issue of ethnic communities and their economies. A few speakers were talking about decentralisation. I understand the problem of decentralisation very well in other countries. So there are no secrets if we talk about risks of decentralisation, but there is no better mechanism for the integration of a country, which is complex, which is complex than decentralisation. Each good solution contains a certain small risk. The worst are those solutions that seem to be risk-free. That when you take everything into your own hands and think you're the master of the situation, you're the least master of the situation. Create one network of mutual responsibility and mutual rights, if successful, then it leads to one stable system. I have found, in particular, the last few months, that there has been, not only ethnic communities that are not Serbian, but also in purely Serbian cities such as Nis, Leskovac, Kraljevo, such as Shabac, that there is an otter towards Belgrade. There's some kind of anger on Belgrade and people's impression that Belgrade is some kind of steam center, money that people make fairly, and that someone, in the name of those who did, makes some decisions and then gives the crumbs of that money. I think there is a great danger that if nothing is done in this regard, that indeed Serbia, with all the centralization it has today, is being broken down by all the stitches it has. First of all, according to the seams of trust, that in the end we are a centralized state in which 40 cities or district centers will actually feel that they are exploited and dissatisfied. That is why something must be done, but not by simply delegating certain rights without any concept, but by carefully using the European models of regionalisation and decentralisation, gradually giving people the authority to do those jobs themselves, to do them, the finances they need to do these jobs and gradually to make people complicit in the state business, because they are full-time citizens. There's no reason for a big city like Nis, a big city like Cacak, like Novi Sad, to get them on a spoon, to have someone in Belgrade judge which street should be fixed, what should be invested. If they've earned that money, if that money is collected through taxes in their community, they probably know where they're supposed to invest it. Of course, it's a complex process and it needs to be discussed, but it needs to be opened. This should blow up this one bubble of separatism, which will necessarily be high if nothing is done in that direction. As far as Vojvodina is concerned, my approach is to see the accounts first. First of all, let's see what's true about Belgrade exploiting Vojvodina, see how the finances move and we come to some compromise and, first of all, provide financial autonomy for Vojvodina. The Vojvodina has its autonomy under the Constitution until the Constitution is changed, and I hope it never changes in that direction to end the autonomy of the Vojvodina. As long as the Constitution doesn't change, we must take seriously the right of the people of Vojvodina to decide for themselves a number of matters. They can't decide these things if they don't have the money to finance your decisions. If they get the money, then one part of jurisdiction and obligations they get. The finance minister won't give them part of the funding, and at the same time they don't finance part of local school or health care. It doesn't mean the whole thing, it doesn't mean everything, but it means to the extent they get the funding, to that extent, it's going to finance what the Republic would normally finance. There's no way they're going to get money to spend it the way they think it's necessary, and then the Republic is going to finance what their needs are and what they have to pay for in those local environments. We will be very careful in this process, but I think that this process must go on, because if we respect the people of Serbia, if we respect the citizens, then I think we have to give them the right to have a small part of the decisions on their lives, and they do. There's been a lot of mind pouring into Belgrade. It's time to admit he's got those brains. As for this issue that has been mentioned two or three times, regarding Mr. Kas, but it doesn't have to have anything to do with him directly, on the basis of ethnic principles, to form territorial autonomy or, in general, to territorialise ethnic principles, I am strictly against it. I think it leads to the destruction of every community, whether it's ours or someone else's. They can make different formations, but not on the ethnic-terroral principle. That's my position, that's the position of the Democratic Party, that's the position, I think, of most DOS parties. It's a matter we can discuss, but for some other point of view there won't be a majority. Any point of view is legitimate, can be presented in a discussion, but neither with our colleagues who represent a different position there has any secrets, there is a position that DOS, more or less, in general represents. It was mostly issues that were controversial. There were a lot of other individuals I couldn't look back on. It was one or two personal. One was my passport. Of course, anyone can get, as an MP, an insight into my passport and many other rights MPs will have, in relation to ministers, which they have not had so far. Let him make an official request. He'll get a photocopy of my passport. You'll be surprised when this photocopy finds that so many lies and slanders have been about me for the past two years, and in connection with my alleged stay abroad, which is the purest lie, in the course of the entire 80 or 90 days, I've spent one day abroad. I spent all the other time in SRJ. Those who think it's not our country, let them look at their own program. But perhaps the tendency to slander was one of the reasons why the election results were the way they were. Finally, someone said I took part in a television show and I asked a philosophical question -- what patriotism is. I took part in that television show and I asked what patriotism was, but my colleague forgot to add that I gave the answer to that question. I've asked him not as a philosophical, but as a very practical question. I asked - and what is patriotism? Then I said what it was for me, patriotism. Patriotism is for me that my children stay to live in my country and speak their own language as their native language without having to go in the white world with their belly after their bread. Patriotism is that they appreciate my country and that I, with my passport, can walk proudly across any border. For this patriotism this government will stand for, and we are, don't doubt it, in this sense, the great patriot. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-25-0.u306	I'm closing the search and we're moving on to a decision. According to Article 187(1). The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal for the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Government, shall be decided in general by a secret vote unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. I propose that a proposal be made for the president, vice presidents and members of the government by raising hands. I would like to ask you before the vote to determine the number of MPs present in the room. I find that the sittings are attended by 229 MPs. I am putting the motion to vote on a proposal for the president, vice-presidents and members of the government to decide by public vote - by raising hands. Who's in? (1999) Against? Nobody. Restraint? No, there isn't. ) I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority to vote on a proposal for the president, vice presidents and members of the government to vote publicly - by raising hands. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the proposal for president, vice presidents and members of the Government of the Republic, by raising their hands, the National Assembly is being declared in general on this proposal. I remind you, under Article 92, paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government was elected if the majority of the number of MPs voted in favour of its election. Before joining the vote, please determine how many MPs attend the session. I find there are 233 MPs present in the O.R. I am voting on a proposal for the president, vice presidents and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? The vote was 168 against 55, no abstentions. Since 168 MPs voted for the proposal for the president, vice-presidents and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the members of the Government to comply with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia approaches the oath. [[Applause]] Please repeat after me: "I swear that in my work I will uphold the Constitution and the law and that I will carry out my duties as a member of the Government responsibly and securely." Please sign the oath. They're signing an oath. ) The session is over. [[Applause]] Thank you.
