ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as much as today, but probably tomorrow, this assembly under DOS majority, will bring one back specialis, will pass a law called the One-time Tax Act on extra income and extra property acquired by the use of special benefits. "Ledge Specialis" because, in addition to existing legislation in our legal science and right in general, whoever can treat and sanction everything that is contained in this law, we have one special law, a law that is outside the legal system. It's a law that imposes legal unrest and legal uncertainty. This congregation today, and it shouldn't, will pass that law. Two are interesting, indicative characteristics of this law. First, that after nearly 150 days of ruling this DOS government, it has never been worse and worse law in the assembly procedure, I say never, but knowing the DOS and knowing this government, how much tomorrow, the next next law will be even worse. The second feature, almost never the long name of the law was, seems to be the only size of this law. Why the bad law? The whole DOS and the government have been back and forth, ever since this assembly worked, saying the opposition was trying to obstruct the work in this assembly, and among other things by submitting a lot of amendments to all the legal proposals that DOS and this government, the so-called expert government, have submitted. We have a precedent here. Of the 27 members, as many as the law has, even 91 amendments have been tabled by DOS lawmakers. Whether the DOS, or DOS government, the so-called expert transparent government, will speak now, to be obstructed by those DOS MPs who have submitted the amendments. By submitting amendments by the DOS MPs, and there are 91, the fact goes to the point that this law is bad. In addition to the opposition MPs, our SRS MPs, even the DOS MPs, wanted to fix both the text and the essentials of this law that got into the process so badly. One of the MPs who is from the DOS position, who has submitted the amendment and whose amendment is the Government and has accepted it is Mr Pal Shandor. If you read the text of this amendment to Article 3, to which a new position is added, you will see that this amendment has been submitted and accepted by the Government, which is very indicative, I will tell you why - it is aimed at only one person. He's pointing to the Deputy Prime Minister. That we gave it, so let's go. It was submitted by Mr. Pal Shandor and accepted by the government and pointed to Mr. Joseph Kassu, Deputy Prime Minister. I don't get into their personal relationships, that's their business. But, if you remember, on January 26th, when this so-called expert government was elected, many MPs of the SRS, and among them myself, we presented a number of arguments why, because of moral and political credibility, Mr Joseph Kass should not be elected. Looks like we spoke for free, and now you accept an amendment that will only sanction Mr. Joseph Kassu. I am very interested when you pass the law, whether Mr. Joseph Kassa will be sanctioned and whether Mr. Pal Shandor will be allowed to control whether the law is applied in that position, in that amendment, in that article and in Mr. Kassu. Why is it still a bad law? This law, in addition to saying existing legislation, is in fact just one marketing, media trick of DOS, and before the elections in September and December, you offered change to the people. You offered and the people accepted it, it's normal that he wanted to change, he wanted a better life, but it seems he bit into a hook without bait. Mr. Risticevic said about this speaker that the people were disappointed. Yes, the people are disappointed. The next elections will show how disappointed he is that you have failed to deliver any of your pre-election promises, which you are not the government that offers Serbia, that you are not the authority that offers Serbia and a better life and changes for the better. That's why this law is one pure media, marketing trick ahead of the election, and this time it's just that you offer the people or the hook, but with bait. What else is wrong with this law? It is bad that you, who claim to be DOS government, are a transparent government, that you want to show everything to the public and that you are the ones who will bring change to Serbia, you work here in secret. Something's being offered to make a deal. That the person found and who will come under attack and sanctioned by this law will be able to make a deal with Djelic and Radovic about what and how it might be less sanctioned, not as much as it might take. Where's the transparency? So Djelic and Radovic will make a deal with that face that will come under the influence of this law. When a settlement is reached, one who is a taxpayer, and you tell us that you are offering to bring Europe here to Serbia, throughout Europe, the taxpayer must report his tax obligations himself. Here, if he logs in, and that should be his obligation, this is where the law predicts certain 35 percent reliefs. You're offering him that. So this is just a marketing trick, to show the people that you want to sanction those who have become rich both at the expense of the state and at the expense of the people in the last 13 years. Which will be the third thing after those deals, after certain bonuses. The payment of that debt, and the tax liabilities to the wars, on how many wars, with which time limits between the wars, and inflation will seem to eat it. It's yours so transparent and so good law. Why also the bad law? I mentioned that this country has certain legal norms, even legal institutions, this state has a MUP, this state has certain services for economic crime, this state has a Ministry of Finance, and even financial inspectorates, this state has a NBJ, this state has a Institute of Accounting and Payment, and ultimately this country has a Ministry of Justice. Hard hearts, but this time I'm going to aliminate Mr. Vladan Batic, so maybe he can't make it through all these institutions. Why? Mr. Vladan Batic is a city councilman in the Belgrade City Assembly, a federal MP, head of a parliamentary group in the Federal Assembly, minister of justice and president of one party. If only there was someone else in the party to help him, to dissipate him, maybe he'd come through the Justice Department to work here. If this country has all these institutions, if it has existing positive legal regulations, then why parallelism? If you can do all this, and you're in power, why don't you do it? Why is it that one special law, one back specialis, that you will sanction all those who should come under this law, there are all legal norms and why don't you use them? It's a media propaganda trick for the people. Why is this law still bad? Mr Djelic, when explaining this law, said it would retroactively apply to the last 13 years. Mr. Bane Ivkovic tried to say that Mr. Djelic had made a mistake, that he might have thought of the last 10 years. No, Mr. Djelic meant it right. That really applies to 13 years. Why? Because this government, this DOS has pure rematchism. If we remember what 13 years means, that's what we keep telling you. There were rematchists, defeated forces at the 8th session. The people should be killed by communists who won the 8th session and the communists who lost, and now they win. That's what you're offering the people, further deepening the conflict. Yes, Mr. Djelic was right, he was, he's been referring to the last 13 years. Why? Because it's pure rematchism in this DOS. That's where the SPS really did it. That the SPS elite in the last 12 years had not been in power, had not been alienated from the people, had risen from the people and forgotten this people, who had reached the edge of the social misery, to the economic impasse, a people who simply tried to rise up nationally and to endure these 12 years, who, thanks to the elite in the SPS, forgot about the Serbian province, because it was constantly offered to him, forgot about the Republic of Serbia, the NATO forces entering Kosovo, so now you've finished that Kosovo. That people wanted to change, they wanted better Serbia, they voted for you, and you didn't. Thanks to such an SPS elite, the worst communists have come to power today. We have the worst DOS today. This is not what the people voted for, and indeed, expecting the next election, I believe that if they finally forgot about the SPS communists, they would forget about the remandists, the worst communists from the DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9177	Replica, Mr. Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9178	I ask Mr. Vujic not to explain my amendments. When the time comes, I'll explain it. I don't need wooden lawyers. As far as the case is concerned, he lives in Subotica, so he only knows about that one case. I know of some other cases and the amendment has been set very principled, not personally, and therefore I ask that any kind of sympication be excluded in this regard. I am, I can tell you, very proud that the Government has accepted this amendment of mine as well as the Legislative Committee and, therefore, means that the amendment has its weight and that its inclusion in the law is justified. When it comes and when it's time to talk about it, I'll explain it later, if I have to. Otherwise, as for the various situations in Subotica, perhaps Mr. Vujic could mention the Pioneer. I received from their legal representative a long letter as it was privatized, what was done, and if you are close to that case, Mr. Vujic, there will be opportunities around privatisation and some other laws, and then you mean those cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9179	The People's Messengers have the word Stanko Kovacevic, and after that, the people's heir to Vasilija Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9180	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister, this bill that DOS has promised voters will come to the agenda, as soon as possible after the takeover of power, practically wants to correct only one part of the injustice that the previous government has done to this people and citizens of Serbia and it will not be able to fully compensate for all that the previous government has done. But if nothing else and a partial compensation for what was taken from Serbian citizens, taken away, robbed, abused, etc. and that is some satisfaction to the citizens, because the funds that are raised under this law will be used in a certain way by returning citizens through appropriate funds and through appropriate investment. One MP at the very beginning of the debate under this legislative proposal, who is also the head of the parliamentary group, in a desire to show that this law should not be on the agenda of this assembly session, in addition to the claim that the state cannot punish state and social enterprises, because this would mean that the state punishes itself and that it would plastically show what it looks like - it would be the same thing if I were punishing my horse, thereby punishing myself. My comment on that statement is - it's a shame to be insulted by noble animals. To give another piece of support for the explanation I want to give for this legal project, I'm going to read one quote, because it seems to be popular here, even that. How can rule be strengthened? "The government must commit itself to destroying parties, to prevent individual efforts in all forms, to create through the regulation of a massive financial monopoly, public wealth tanks, so that any private wealth can be squandered, if the state so wishes. The authorities must assign the highest positions to those who have taken their earlier functions and their character away from everyone, and they are divided by a deep abyss, those who, in the event of a change of government, have nothing else to expect until shift or imprisonment, so they are forced to defend until the last breath of the existing privilege. The government must manage state funds secretly, many expenditures to pay unsupervised, deficits to display prosperity, and all its defeats as great victories." This was written by French writer Morris Joli in the 17th century and it is simply amazing that in a dialogue in hell between Makijaveli and Monteschi, writer Morris Joli predicted the character of a certain government at the very end of the 20th century, which ruled in the Republic of Serbia. Another MP, also head of parliament's group, saying about the unnecessaryness of this law, argues that this law does not need to address these problems of extra profits and one-time taxes for those cases listed in article 19 of the case file, rather than saying -- this law should possibly treat the grey economy. It is common for this MP when he comes out for this speaker to always give me the credentials of how the right to conceal the real responsibility of those for the misdemeanor or inaction with their people, because Mr. MP says - don't talk about extra profits, robberies, abuses, the need to tax it, but give it, you're chasing a gray economy. He wants the new government to suggest in a certain way that it is now launching processes against 400,000 Serbian citizens who have been forced by the previous government to pursue bread, retail and small elements of the grey economy. So -- here's the DOS government, you're fighting 400,000 citizens of Serbia now, but the ones we've been using, the ones we've been stealing, the ones we've been using, the ones we've been using, the ones we've been misusing, the ones we've misusing, the ones we've been using, the ones we've been using, the ones we've misusing in our official course, although the range of the market course has been several times larger, the ones that we've done the biggest robbery in the history of humanity through the challenge of hyperinflation in 1993, don't touch us, you're chasing citizens. Surely, such a kind of responsibility will not escape, nor will it escape that those funds they have acquired for special benefits must be returned to this people. Another form of illegally acquired funds lies in the fact that opposition MPs, when we discussed tax laws and the Budget Law and every time they went out for this pay phone, indicated that during their rule, sugar was cheap, flour was cheap, oil was cheap, bread was cheap, etc. They won't admit to the people that these elements of cheap basic food products were the source of the acquisition of enormous wealth, the ruling oligarchy and their plots, mob actors. For example, oil was very cheap, but that's why the Minister of Trade wrote orders to the oil producers of all the daily oil quantities you have to deliver to these and these companies. When the helmets come to the oil store to fill the oil, those same helmets are not found in the shops of Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and other cities, believe it or not, are found in Kosovo, are located in Bosnia, at the border crossing to go to Albania. Belgrade citizens wait in line for hours and days to buy 7.8 and 9 dinars, so that black marketers do not buy 28-38 dinars. It's you...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9181	Mr. Kovacevic, please speak a little bit more about the law, this has nothing to do with either directly or indirectly with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9182	Mr. President, this information is most directly related to the elements of the acquisition of extraprofits and abuse of citizens. , because oil and sugar producers claim that for each kilogram of sugar and per litre of oil, individuals from the government and individuals who were engaged in smuggling made one German brand, and only one oil producer delivered 200,000 liters of oil daily. [[Applause]] You see, Mr. President, whether these are elements of illegal wealth. I'm going to end up on that right now, so I don't accidentally cause any more of your interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9183	Unlawful yes, but the law has nothing to do with it. The word has a folk MP Vasilija Pavicevic, followed by a folk MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9184	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, I won't be long, just a few sentences, I'd prefer to have a few questions that have opened up here, but to say what the predecessors and others have already spoken, whether or not I should have or should not have, and why the law is passed. Mr. Minister explained the necessity of passing such a law and what is covered by this law as an extradobit for taxation. This law not only must, not whether we should pass it, we must pass it because all citizens of this country expect one such law. It would be really disappointing if we didn't get one of those laws. Basically, this law cannot remove what has happened for the last 10, 12 years, but at least it can partially ease that injustice. While some were getting rich, the rest of the people knew how he lived. Another question that is constantly being asked here, whether this law is legally founded, whether there is a legal basis. I would answer that question with another question - and what is the law essentially. As a matter of fact, every law should be justice. In my understanding, I'm not a lawyer, I'm an engineer, but if that's the purpose of the law, to be justified in justice, then I think this law has a very good basis for that view of the law. Otherwise, the law would be a bunch of acts, members and texts of someone who wouldn't make any sense if it wasn't the basis for justice in the community. There's one more thing going on here with this law, retroactivity. And retroactiveness, I think, is necessary because the robbery was carried out retroactively, not now or in the future, but carried out retroactively, so the law must include a retroactive prairie. Here, opposition MPs are still instructed as arguments about this law and the possibility of abuse, meaning the possibility of a settlement to abuse the law, to be the source of some corruption new. I think it's a responsibility, and we're going to pass that law, who's going to enforce that law. I think the government will have, in fact, have to face the public, if it had great responsibility in applying this law, because really if the people were deceived and something like that was done, it would be just what our people say, they're on an angry wound. I don't think the government should risk any machination or manipulation of this law. It'll have to be more comprehensive, fairer and fairer to apply it. Another old one, which I'd say, I think is the observation that this wealth was made by law, means that there were laws and that it was all in accordance with the law. To the Lord's messengers, and to the whole people, I would remind myself of one thing, that during Hitler's time, Jews were killed by law. Hitler passed the law, where it's legal to kill Jews. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9185	The word has a People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representing this draft law, Minister Djelic said it was an honor for him to submit another in a series of unconstitutional legislative proposals, which the new government of experts managed to make and give this assembly for adoption. The honor has recently become a very stretching concept. I've been taught that the most dishonest act a man can do is break the Constitution of his country. The only thing more wicked can be to say is that he's honored to be violated by that constitution. This law is an eclectic example of how one, essentially a good idea, can become a political, interesting, and even family interventions to become an intolerable bad solution. That law doesn't bother me. You, Mr. President, remind those who sat in the front row, so they seem to represent the government, that if they have something to say, to come out for a pay phone, and say so from the pay phone. The minister said this law corrects injustice against social funds users, pension funds, children's protection funds and other budget beneficiaries. Mr. Pavlovic said the same thing in his discussion. However, Serbian citizens, do not trust empty promises. No member, no position, not even a single letter of this law says you'll get anything. The law provides for the collection of funds to be channelled into extraordinary revenues of the budget. If you were to get something, those funds would be directed to funds, to PIO, to the Social and Child Protection Fund, to other funds. What is the background of this law, and what is its essence? The backdrop of this law is that there are, as we say today, some old punks who, using privileges and privileged positions, have acquired intolerably large assets. What's the point? The bottom line is that some new hoodlums came along and they realized that they didn't get anything from that cake and now they're supposed to share it with those old hoodlums. Take the money, according to Nenad Canak, and direct them to the extraordinary revenues of the budget. The citizens of Serbia really won't get anything. Here's what it looks like in practice -- someone calls the governor for a while and says, "Someone needs five million marks," and the governor says, "I don't." He says he's making a forced ransom. Those involved in the work know that they had to sell their foreign exchange rates to the National Bank of Yugoslavia on an official course at a time when the official course was significantly lower than the actual course. Now one more question, Nenada Canka - and whose money is it, is it the state money or is it the money from those business entities and natural persons who had to sell foreign exchanges to the National Bank on the official course, so that some in that same official course would get them? So, it's privileged for those who got their foreign exchanges per course. Who's damaged? I guess those who had to sell those foreign exchanges on the official course, not the state. But now these people don't go. These foreign exchanges go to the state. What is going on with the loan for Serbia's economic rebirth? The same thing comes up and says -- I need one hundred million dinars, and this one says -- let's say, there's a Development Fund, which has been entered by funds from the Fund for the Economic Revival of Serbia, and then it gets that money. Who now is damaged - the state or citizens who gave money to that fund for Serbia's economic rebirth? It is normal for the citizens to be damaged, but the citizens will not get it, because that money will not go back to what they gave, but will go into the extraordinary revenues of the budget, so these extraordinary budget revenues will be shared by the Segedin Group in the way that suits them. It's the same with foreign savings. The old foreign savings provided foreign exchange to the users of these privileged foreign exchange loans. But the money that is now being collected will not go to those who have given money to the old foreign savings, but will go back to the extraordinary revenues of the budget, so the Segedin Group will again share it the way it suits them. This is all about one law that is absolutely unconstitutional, which has no basis even in the federal tax system law, as well as all tax laws that we have passed so far. But that doesn't matter. The revolutionary goals were always higher than the Constitution. In Europe, which you seek and to which you call, only a court ruling can challenge the right of property acquired by certain actions. There are no courts here. Here you bring back specialis, very selectively, very drawn, because everyone in each member can recognize themselves. Some of the amendments that were given here, they just don't have a photo. If they had a photo, you'd know exactly what kind of man it is. So there won't be any money for the citizens. The money for those who were forced to sell foreign exchanges per course, it won't be. The money for those who gave funds for Serbia's economic rebirth will not be. But there will be funds in the current budget reserve that will grow to unprecedented limits, although the budget that was passed when the budget was passed should essentially not have a budget reserve. The budget reserve is a great fund, a black fund for manipulation and for various other actions. I told you the idea of this law was really good. All amendments that have been submitted are going towards improving it. No amendment is going to facilitate the position of those who have worked those actions, but none whatsoever. Everyone's going to sharpen this law. The government rejects all these amendments, as it would likely be held back by some of the privileged who are now in their ranks, who were before or now have fled to their ranks. Those amendments don't go for it. Only those who pressure say you will adopt these amendments are accepted, or we will vote against the law. Then these amendments kind of get too much, and then they get adopted. I really don't see a reason why someone who bought foreign exchanges from the People's Bank on a 6.00 dinar course doesn't pay the difference. But I really don't see any reason why the NBJ, who under duressly bought these foreign exchanges from the people on that same course, would not repay that difference to the people. I've given amendments in that sense, and I'm going to talk about it in the amendment debate. I'll be here for 9.50 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9187	The word is by MP Slobodan Tomovic, followed by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9188	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of the SPS has always been for a harsh, very harsh taxation of the work of undeserved wealth, as well as for the fair and impartial taxation of any natural or legal person who has acquired extra income or extra property. However, the dilemma that we have at this point is that this proposed law calls into question one of the basic tax rights, which is the right to tax equality, which is linked to the concept of justice. I find the argument for this finding in the light of the proposed law. "Ratio legis of one-off income tax and extra property lies in the process of a special economic power acquired by the use of special benefits by members of the former nomenclature, not in the general level of wealth." In view of such stimulation, what does the above quote indicate? Therefore, it can be concluded that the provisions of the proposed law and the priories will apply to those of the former nomenclature, and not to those which were either at one time themselves in those nomenclatures or have been constantly with and exploited by those nomenclatures, and are not covered by Articles 5 and 6 as taxpayers. Our commitment is therefore that the provisions of the law must apply to all equally and that this law must not be a cover for dealing with individuals, whether it is legal or physical persons of the so-called. Former nomenclature. I note that any determination of extra income based on pragmatic-calculating transactions, which are an expression of the need for a political moment, creates the possibility of volunteering-administrative regulation of economic flows and thereby denying market flows and relations between economic operators. When determining extra income, we advocate that the basics are classified as internal factors, that there is, above all, a series of moments related to the legal person and its process of creating and exchanging products, then to the process of reducing the cost of production below the average costs of the branch, which creates conditions for extra income and income, and as external factors, which is the situation on the market, the fact of natural and institutional conditions of adjudication. Obviously, according to what we are suggested here, based on this proposed text of the law, neither objectively nor accurate income calculations resulting from internal and especially external factors can be carried out. Without the ambition to continue to critically elaborate the proposed law in this reporting, because I would have to ask, among other things, - who, as well as where from the flag to collect taxes because she was taking a loan from the primary show, because she was buying foreign exchanges in the official course, and others, who, by the same or similar criteria from other flag, will read - "Krusik" or some other firm, to collect those taxes. I would therefore like to point out that it is exclusively the intention of the SPS parliamentary group to come up with a document that would unbiasedly, precisely, qualified, expertly and fairly regulate this matter and that it has proposed a series of amendments in this respect. Our votes for the adoption or failure of the law, which is on the agenda, are in the function of accepting the proposed amendments, because the non-acceptation of amendments in the current manner, which has grown into practice, will unequivocally and unambiguously indicate that the law is being passed on purpose, with the aim of serving as a framework for selective accounting with political insatisfactors. I thank you for your attention, especially the female group that followed very closely.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9189	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is an irresistible reminder of the former law on the investigation of the origin of property, an unpopular law that we know has passed in practice, how selective it has been. It also resembles Bolshevik laws passed after the October Revolution in Russia, with elements of the law on confiscation and nationalisation. This law introduces a one-time tax on extra income and extra property acquired by taking advantage of special benefits. It's actually a one-time tax that represents an extraordinary budget revenue. This is where we come to the goal of passing this law. The aim of the law is to cover the budget deficit, only the proponent, i.e. The government won't tell us how much funds are expected from the application of this law and what these funds will be spent on. And that's exactly what we wanted from Minister Djelic to hear, which is in his exposé, and I listened carefully to him, about this law: "This law has an economic and moral background. It's an emergency law and it's a real tax." It was the only sentence that applied to this law, and everything else looked like one political speech, though quite unprepared. We Serbian radicals are not against the adoption of this law and the idea it basically carries. But we're against the concept of this law. He's not well-conceived. We believe that any abuse should be punished. However, in the legal system of our country, there is a Criminal Law and most of the abuses provided for in Article 3 are criminal acts and there is no reason not to investigate in the criminal proceedings whether certain abuses have occurred or not, and then, after the determination of responsibility, of course, there is also a measure of confiscation of property or payment of additional tax, but as provided for by this law. There is one thing that makes us doubt that this law will be equally applied to all. I'm sure there will be a number of abuses in the law itself. However, those who will apply the law should think about it, for they too can one day come under certain sanctions. I will just point out, because this is very important because of the preservation of the legal order of the state, that the law is the opposite of both the Constitution of the SRJ and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Liabilities, as well as the federal Law on the founding of the tax system. Our proposal does not hide all this, and in Article 25 of this law clearly states - the provisions of the Law on Obligation Relations and Tax Laws are not applicable in the procedure of determining and charging a single tax. This is outrageous. If one government needs to do something, it's to fight to preserve the justice system of a country. What would be natural, when discussing this bill, is for the public, and for us MPs, to put into account the register of companies that, for example, received money from the primary show. It would be significant if you knew. Then, I think it's wrong to treat production firms and companies dealing with commercial affairs in the same way, because we have a situation that, right now, during DOS, a commercial company, owned by the current interior minister, gets a million credit marks. Why? Where's the excuse to waste state money? We don't know. What is also unacceptable in this law is who is all bound by one-time tax. Here, I will quote Article 6 that says: "These are children, or adoptives, and members of their families, parents, or adoptors, brothers and sisters, and members of their families, a spouse, divorced spouse, relatives by the matrimonial to the second degree of kinship, including relatives by the matrimonial act." They didn't say it right until the seventh knee. And, you know, please, who is considered a member of the family household under the Law on Marriage and Family, and also the Law on Inheritance, and I think all of this will lead to a number of problems and discords in individual families, especially where divorce has already taken place. But what particularly confirms our suspicion that the state, by implementing this law, will be a mother to someone, and to a stepmother, is a fact provided for in Article 9, which allows the Director of RUJP to conclude with the taxpayer, so-called. Alignment. At the head of the Republic of the Public Revenue Management Board is Aleksandar Radovic, who is also president of the Commission for determining abuses in business and financial business, and is very well aware of the relations that Aleksandar Radovic has with current Minister Djelic, especially what would be natural for the state to control the Republic's Public Revenue Administration, and especially its director, what and how it does, implementing this law. So we're coming up with incompatibility of functions and powers, which all indicates, without a doubt, that there will be selective law enforcement here and abuse of law. What also reveals the final intention of the Government is the fact that the taxpayer is obliged to pay a one-time tax within 15 days, exclusively in three months of the war, in money, but necessarily with one means of ensuring payment, mortgage, hand-delivery, guarantee and the other, and when it comes to enterprises in social, or mixed property, with excessive participation of social capital, the payment can be made by handover to the Republic, meaning the State, the corresponding share in the capital of such legal persons. And what it is, what's behind it -- kidnapping companies by the government, and then privatisation goes, as the new DOS government has designed. We'll just see what kind of repercussion they'll have. All in all, we are obliged to point out that the adoption of one such back of a specialis is very dangerous, that it represents a precedent that causes legal uncertainty just because it is in general with a return fact. So, not just certain members of the law, but a complete law, and that all these cases are foreseen, or at least most, in Article 3 of this bill, punishable by Criminal Law. It is only right to establish certain abuses in criminal proceedings, so if abuses are found, it can be taken away. That would be the right way, but it would take a little while, and the DOS government is in a hurry to fill in the budget deficit, to get the money, because there's nothing out of the promised six billion (I mean the dollar amount). It's just, there's something that you should keep in mind -- that many who are soul-funded DOS campaigns will also come under the influence of this law, of course, if the law is not selective, and all the opportunities are yes. It remains for us, and for the public, to see if this law can be applied at all, how it will apply, and I assume that through this law and through the application of this law, DOS will show its true face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9191	The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9192	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would start with what is written in the reasoning of the law and what concerns its return fact, Articles 2, 3 and 8. If there was ever a need to re-apply to some law, then it's this law. If there's ever been a reason for something back-to-back doing this assembly, for punishing those who have been rich in a privileged way, and I'm not deliberately saying-- an illegal way, not in an illegal way-- then that's it now. Why -- because the law wasn't equally available to everyone. All of us, the rights we might otherwise have had under that law, we couldn't use them. Therefore, what our Constitution says - our Constitution says in Article 121, paragraph 2: "Only by law can it be determined that certain provisions of this constitution, if the general interest required by the law-making process, have a return fact." We have both cases -- that only certain provisions apply backwards, and I think that we have a general interest, that in this way we return those funds to which some law was closer than most of us, and that in this way we make a moral distance to those who were closer to the law and could benefit from the above mentioned ways. Therefore, the law speaks of special benefits, and that is what is the essence of this. The new government, if it wants to make one real cut compared to the time that was before us, it has to point out everything that we're different from the previous government, and we're different from the previous government that we're willing to do these ways, I'd say wealth, this is how we sanction. And secondly, what I see that could come out of this law, is that all those thugs who have swept from the old government into new power, are punished and sanctioned in this way, and these kind of thugs, please, there are in our ranks. I suggested in that code of conduct that all those lowlifes, who pay extra income taxes, be relieved of their functions. Only in this way will the new government make the right distance toward those to whom it must make a distance. There are obviously some, who were good and close to earlier authorities, and some who are good and close to the current government. Therefore, those who were politically close to the former government, in different times, I could somehow understand that, because politics is being led to the realization of certain interests, but those who from that political closeness have achieved a personal benefit, and here it is said, of course, that I could not accept and I think it should be the subject of sanctioning. Here I have proposed several amendments, some of which the government has adopted, and I see that the Committee has adopted it, and some MPs have spoken here today about the members of the 9th and 13th. - haven't looked at what the Committee is actually proposing. The Committee has accepted the removal of Articles 9 and 13, which is still in some direction, which means that the Committee does not think that there is a contract with those who are obliged to pay extra income and that there is no remuneration of several percent because they report their extra income, which is their civic duty. Thus, in this situation, when many of us locusts have eaten the best years, it is necessary to sanction those to whom the law is and to whom justice was closer than others. I would just point out two more things in principle, maybe there's a chance that the motionary might consider it - in one member of the term "domestic", or family members (i.e. Article 6).), the termology is very unreliable, especially in that last position -- "domestic is considered a community of life in the sense of this law", if any of the taxpayers say they no longer live in a joint household, then it will be difficult to apply, at least as I understand it. Here I suggested one amendment, which is much more comprehensive, not to make the difference between household members and family members, but to say that they are relatives, relatives, and then all mother-in-laws, aunts, brothers, uncles, etc., all fall under the influence of that law. Otherwise, in this way, it would be possible to avoid paying taxes. Therefore, to recapture, if something is important, it is important that the new authority indicates that the laws were closer to others than others, that some, truths under then applicable laws, but in an immoral way, they were richer and had to bear sanctions, i.e. to pay taxes. I would especially insist here on those who are so, getting closer or further, and by flirting with past power, manage to blend into new power. It is our true essence to point out and point to those who are dealing both left and right and who are acting immorally, as they are now, as they have previously acted immorally. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Replica, mentioned me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9193	He didn't mention you, he mentioned in the pitch, he wasn't in the exhibit. Word has a folk MP Branislav Blazic What's the basis? [[Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Do you give me a replica?]] (Vojislav Seselj, from the site: The basis for which he mentioned me, to explain. Name, client, what? (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Calling the Duke. It's been taken away, not applicable. It was, it's gone. After him, the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski. What's wrong? What's wrong?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9194	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the worst states usually have the most laws. If we're the worst state, we can discuss it, but we must be somewhere at the top. Do we have the most laws and we're probably up here somewhere? Now, we get another law, it's a unique law, a law that's never been passed anywhere in the world, and no one in the world has ever thought to do anything like this. We can interpret it now, either the world is legally uneducated or it's not honest enough, or there's no reason to get into one of these. Or we're something above others, so we often just want to be individuals and ourselves, what someone said, like a celestial people. This is a law that is not easy to defend, but it is also very difficult to attack. It's hard to attack him because he can essentially be justified by one moral line and moral reasons, as a result of one terrible time we've been through, and that's why all the weight until his attack has worked. It is not easy to defend him because he is essentially anti-constitutional, against all laws, which, when he looks a little deeper from the surface, he sees that he is deeply demagogue, that he will be difficult to apply, that he will be selective, that he is carrying a demagogue of dishonesty in order to justify the reasons for his passing. Essentially, these 100 days since October, as DOS already counts, there could have been a lot in public, in the disclosure of the mafia, and then far more people would have had in accepting such a law. But you can't ride a private plane at the same time, and on the other hand, you can pass a law that should tax or sanction the one that gives you the plane that you ride with, government, ministers, etc. The mafia exists in all transition countries, not only in Serbia, but the mafia should be shot in the head and cut off all the tentacles and arms it has released in all the pores of this society. But you're making some laws that are essentially demagogue and they don't publicly show who they're referring to. It's all wrapped up in a story that should be and that looks more like a pre-election campaign than a real story and a desire for many of the injustices that existed to be erased. Otherwise, if it wasn't for that story, we could understand Mr. Mihajlovic's promise, the interior minister, who speaks until Tuesday, by Thursday, this murder, that murder, this robbery, those thefts, kidnappings, and these dates are being moved nonstop and he can't stand the paragraph, although none of what was promised has been done. So when you have a series of promises that these same people promise you, and they don't do anything, it's hard for someone to have a lot of confidence to relate to something that can basically have an honest desire to fix something. We have one flood of patriots after what happened to us who were somewhere in the world, at a time when bombs were falling here and when the country was fighting for survival in one way or another, who are now coming with a story to transfer patriotism from abroad here to this area, and leaving it there for a few thousand marks of their salary, come here to work for 400 to 500 marks, to sleep with aunts in the kitchen on the couch, and then serve us these laws. Or, they don't come back now, but at the same time they're bringing in that salary, but to be head of a commission that's going to negotiate with the mob or with newly-roasted rich people, about how much they're going to pay now. Is he going to pay 100, 200, 500,000 marks one-time tax. You know, in those conditions, it's hard for a man not to think -- what are the real reasons to leave a few thousand marks of pay there, and to work here for a few hundred marks. It's a bit of a demagogy, which is certainly in the background, and it's possible, but it doesn't have to mean, but it's possible that there's a whole other flaw. What's the point, and that's the public. Secondly, that you can't negotiate, that you can't bargain, that this is a state or flea market? Does one state have the right to negotiate with someone who's branded as a criminal? Does this country have the right to negotiate with the mob, who else does it in the world? In this law it is given this way, whether the amendment will be changed, that's another story. The other thing that's basically, 35 percent freeing someone who pays taxes, what does that mean? You're rewarding someone for what he had to do. Then I can rightly ask myself, and all those who regularly paid all taxes, electricity, heating, regular, never without any debt, taxes to the state on this or that, to get back 35%, since they were very fair and very correct towards their country. This is rewarding some who didn't actually do what they had to do under the law. These are all in principle crimes, rather than what we can talk about taking advantage of a special time in which it was lived. Therefore, to talk about transparency, and to involve everything in some blurred story, more, if you already use some foreign expressions, there is no choice of transparency, half permeability, it will not be seen, it will be selective, although DOS is called upon not to, like those who pulled a mustache after World War II, and similar to them, to apply these methods in a similar law, but to know exactly who were most wronged and who did not. However, after those promises that have not been fulfilled, we cannot trust them there either. So what's the point and why I think this law has to, if anything, go back to one dowry, get the elements of the right law to correct some of the injustices and accidents that were there. The bottom line is that a lot of things are being fixed through the amendments, changed, or the new variant offered, and like this, we can't fix old injustices with new wrongs, we can't start building a democratic state in an illegal way. This cannot possibly be and must not be the defense of those who must be punished for taking advantage of a period of disaster of this people, but something which is the Constitution, which is the law, must be respected until the end and something that is a crime, must be treated accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9195	Lazar Marjanski has the word, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9196	Dear People's MPs, I would like to make one remark, we are discussing this law, and a report by the Commission of Mr Vuk Obradovic, who has been replaced, should be submitted in order to know what it is to companies and people. Namely, I would like to say a few words, if a member of the 9th was adopted by the Committee, and he is in connection with Article 18 and 19, so I would like to ask Mr Djelic how, since he is an economist and not Mr Batic here, how does Article 18 and Article 19, which relate to Article 9? I have a few more questions: which firm was taking from the primary show, what's going to happen to her? Eck's Fish Eck was taking money from the primary show, and it's currently under bankruptcy. The head of the board of directors of the DOS, Jordan Alexic, was a member of the government's current DOS Vice-President Golubin Krstic. It is well known that the money Alexic and Krstic took to the other side, and today the pond is under bankruptcy and cannot possibly get to that pair, but they are burdened. What about those companies that didn't use the primary show, and abnormally they got rich through the gray economy, through their relationships, etc. There's got to be a lot of cases of companies using the primary show, so they went through a company that lived for two, three or four months and then went out, and the trail of those money's getting lost. Here, in this law, you can't see what's going to happen to these companies. In fact, most of the companies that used the primary show did so, and we know that many of them, in the current DOS and the flyers, came just for that, and one of the predecessors was talking about carrying out money, devising from our country. Yes, there was, and this predecessor knows well how much money he made and how he paid for everything, his and his travellers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9197	The word has a folk MP, Zarko Obradovic, and the next one is a registered MP, Svevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9198	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, respected members of the government, the proposal to introduce a one-off tax on extra income and extra property through the use of special benefits, although legally disputed, could be socially acceptable if it did not have its sole political premise in both the content of the law and the given explanation. It is obvious that the mover's intention to pass this law is, of course, negative, on the past 12 years of life in Serbia, of course on the SPS, but most of all on Slobodan Milosevic, the president of our party, the previous president of Serbia and the SRJ. These proposals are more than clearly shown in the reasoning of the law, where in many places, inappropriately, unscienceally, unconstitutionally stands out Slobodan Milosevic as a person responsible for the state of Serbian society. At the political level of consideration, such a relationship of the promoter could even be understood, of course not accepted, as a reflection of a political relationship that the ruling DOS has towards the SPS and its president, but it is politically and personally immoral, state and socially unacceptable to give any judgment on the state of Serbian society in the last decade of the 20th century, not to mention 8 years of sanctions so-called. international communities, the economic terror that has been committed against Serbia and its citizens, the freezing of our funds abroad, the inability of normal business with other countries, the acquisition of raw materials, the repromation and all other products of importance for the operation of Serbia's economy and the normal life of its citizens, if at all possible, in such conditions of international blockade and pressure, talk about normal living conditions. It is clear why Western countries, the same ones that carried out sanctions against Serbia and the SRJ and which bombed our country, have the need for amnesia, because it is not logical to talk about a huge amount of love and attention among Serbian citizens, as it seems over the past few months, since their favorites have established a federal and republican government, while at the same time having to remind themselves, let alone pay the price of damage done to Serbian citizens. The minister and the Serbian government, as a proponent of this kind, cannot be forgiven. It may be for the sake of political profitability that I can forget these facts, but history doesn't suffer black holes, so this one will disappear soon. The law, i.e. the bill, suffers from a number of assumptions and subjective estimates of extra income and extra assets, which question the possibility of its achievement. The criteria contained in the provisions of individual members are extremely undefined, and some very politically motivated. Why was he taken as a starting point for taxation on January 1, 1989? Does this date have political or economic significance? It is obvious that it is a political reason, which speaks in itself enough about the proposing's intentions. Secondly, the economic reason is unlikely, because the period by rule or at least in a significant number of people binds to Mr. Antu Markovic and has positive connotations. In addition, Serbia was part of the SFRY at the time, where other legal regulations were in force. The law, i.e. the bill of law, is unfair, as it sets out different obligations for single-taxes. While for one taxpayer, the tax base determines progressive rates, other bonds, and those who have acquired property on a number of different grounds, it provides an opportunity for Article 9 to determine the level of the tax base. Paradoxically, but true. Therefore, those bonds which, on a higher level, have earned income, i.e. acquired property for special benefits, do not accidentally use the term unlawfully, because it would be a criminal offence and thus subject to criminal law, can, in agreement with the Director of the Republic of the Public Revenue Administration, reconcile their obligations. This attitude of the legislator, i.e. the legislator, towards the debtor who has obtained income, i.e. property on a number of different grounds, not to say unlawfully, because this also avoids it, has many similarities with the category of protected witness and their role in certain criminal cases. The agreement with authorities practically solves the problem of a certain taxpayer. You can't say it's just, and you can't say it's transparency that I'm not talking about it. In my opinion, the law needs to be time-limited, thus avoiding possible calculations of the political character and its application suddenly. The payment of one-time tax should be limited in time. The law through the payment of one-time tax, according to Art. 21 allows the state to carry out its kind of nationalisation of legal entities, given the level of the rate of one-off tax, the state can overnight become the majority owner of these companies. As is the rule of quality enterprises, the state automatically determines their fate in the announced privatisation. The bill introduces retroactiveness, thereby derogating federal regulations. According to federal and republican regulations, there are established categories of obsolescence. This law seeks to eliminate a series of republican and federal regulations in this area. The bill did not cover an area of gray economy, which was overwhelming, to say the true source of illegal wealth. This fact itself speaks of the intentions of the legislator of the law that, in this way, the one-sided treatment of the institution from the previous period, shows the same as the form of economic organisation, that it exclusively serves illegal work and illegal wealth. It is simply not true, because just the public enterprises, the large social systems that employ the largest number of workers, have borne the greatest burden in the past period, economic, social and all others. So, all in all, unfortunately one law cartoon was made, politically colored, remandistically motivated, without a desire to tax the actual extra profit, or wealth obtained in an illegal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9199	The People's Messenger Stevan Kesejić has the word, and the next is MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law on extra profit and ester property, proposed by Minister Djelic, is in the same context as all previous laws that the minister has brought before us, but this law looks even more like one creation, I can say which one looks like the promoter. Just because it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9201	Mr. Keseiæ, I give you my first warning under Article 101, because you insulted Mr. Minister. Please take care of your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9202	Okay, I don't know how you understand, but the law is really creative. So whenever Minister Djelic gives a fire-fighting political speech here, when Ceda Jovanovic fully supports him, then we are sure that the law is not good. That's why I said this law was a creation. It does not contain elements that should have the law, but contains political elements that associate us with a political rematch and associate us with the genealogy of the government that has been in Serbia since 1945, until this year, which is the starting point for the application of this law. So, when Mr Djelic spoke of this one-time income tax and extra estate, he spoke of an economic and moral background. In this law, I do not see an economic background, or we do not see an economic effect, and neither does Minister Djelic see the economic effect, because he himself admitted that it is minimal and that the moral effect here is much more important. But when it comes to the moral effect, then we must be very careful when this law of moral effect suggests this government. First of all, because I consider myself an SRS MP, that most ministers in the government do not have such moral subjectivity, which would give us Serbian radicals confidence in that. First of all, we can talk about Minister Mihajlovic, Police Minister, then Justice Minister Vladan Batić, Minister of State, or Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9203	Go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9204	That's exactly the point. So, who are the ministers in the government who propose moral law. When we talk about their moral values, then of course I have to mention their names, because we here for this pay phone, both in fact and in every other way, have argued about their moral values. We are convinced that Nebojsa Covic, with his company FMP Trade, who steals, does what he did and at the time he was with the Socialists...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9205	Mr. Keseiæ, I give you a second warning because of offensive expressions and because you do not stick to the topic of the agenda. Please, this isn't about a motion to resolve ministers, but we have a concrete bill and I'm asking you to focus on it. I didn't ask you anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9206	I think you have a little training to do, and in that harmony, you have to follow what the MPs say. However, since it concerns the law on extraprofits and extra estates, which does not have legal certainty, I also feel as the MP of the SRS, completely unsure of this speaker. So, as for the law on extraprofits and extra estate, we have to say that this law has a lot of hollows. First of all, we are convinced that this law is amnesty for the current government, because as I have stated, and you see that it has connections, that the ministers sitting in the government are corrupt to the point that they will only be amnested by the fact...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9207	Mr. Keseiæ, after two warnings you continued with offensive expressions, I take your word for it. Please step away from the pay phone. The word is by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, and the next is MP Boris Karaicic. (Employee Kesejić still stands behind the pay phone. ) Mr. Keseiæ, I ask you best to step away from the pay phone, since I have taken the steps I was obliged to take and you have continued to violate the Rules of Procedure. (Employee Kesejić still stands behind the pay phone. ) Mr. Keseiæ, once again I ask you to step aside and allow us to continue our work so that your colleague may continue the discussion. (Serb Radical Party emissaries are getting out of place. I didn't ask you anything, Mr. Nikolic. (Employer Seselj, from the scene: may I start talking about you, about the sexual affair.) ). Go ahead. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes, so we'll continue our work. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I agree that we have a quorum and that the MPs of the SRS have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 80, Section 3 and Article 113, because they have not inserted their identification cards, and they are present in the O.R. On the basis of Articles 100 and 103, I propose that the National Assembly take a distance measure for MP Stevan Kesejić, because his word was taken from him, and after that he did not want to get away from the pay phone. I put my proposal to the vote, in accordance with Articles 100 and 103. For 110, against 14, there were no abstentions, there was no 9 vote, out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has voted a measure of distance for MP Stevan Keseiæi, so I ask him to leave the hall. Since MP Stevan Kesejic refuses to leave the hall, according to Article 103(4), I ask the National Assembly to carry out the distance measure brought by the National Assembly. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9210	Please confirm the quorum. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. We continue to work on the third item of the agenda - Searching the bill on one-time income tax and extra property acquired by using special benefits, in principle. (Employee Ivkovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) There is a word from MP Branislav Ivković, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9211	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, you're out of luck. As soon as you get out of the O.R., leave the session to Vice President Natasa Micic, what can well come out of you and the party you belong to, not just the whole DOS. I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 99, and because of those for which I am reporting, I will read this article: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. The use of offensive expressions, as well as facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, is not allowed." I would especially like to quote Article 99 again and point 2: "The Members of the People are obliged to address one another with respect." I suppose, Mr. Chairman, that you have been informed of the demonstration of the democratic method of working in the pogrom of political inexperience, but may not have informed you of anything else, which the citizens of Serbia and how they should know. It would be very good if, since it was probably all recorded, we could release Mr. Kesajic's presentation. You could then, as well as Serbian citizens, see how fast-tracking warnings are taking place again, say measures away from the session. You'd see not only how they spin their hands, break their hands, and throw out people, but you could hear something that's much worse. What should concern the citizens of Serbia is the atmosphere in this assembly. The atmosphere that radiates absolutely one evil and hate, and especially in that, I must tell you, to my astonishment, is preceded by Madam People's MPs from DOS. Personally, I have heard such words from such a lady, who considers herself a lady, that I must tell you, Mr. Chairman, that I am ashamed to repeat the words used by the lady sitting on the left of me. That dictionary is such that I am ashamed to tie it to that common parallel and paradigm used when someone wants to talk about. So, Mr. President, you might want to move peacefully over something that happened here. But you will find it difficult to get past it, because in this assembly, in the behaviour of the MP and vice president of the Assembly, Ms. Natasha Micic, but worst of all, in the behaviour of fans who acted happily, laughed, shot with happiness, shared times about fascists, used verbs better than the villagers, you will find a big problem. In this assembly, something was demonstrated that Serbian citizens do not need at all. This assembly, in this composition, with this malice, with this hatred, which some DOS MPs have shown during the event, certainly cannot lead citizens of Serbia or develop an economy or improve standards. I'm reporting a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 33, which I also want to explain. SPS MPs have submitted a request for the resolution of National Assembly Vice-President Natasa Micic. The explanation reads: "The Vice-President of the National Assembly, Natasa Micic, since the beginning of the work of the National Assembly in this assembly, when he is in office as chairman of the session, his intolerant attitude towards the opposition MPs and the hasty expression of disciplinary measures, brings into parliamentary work intolerance, without respecting the equal position of all MPs. Such behaviour culminated in a session of the National Assembly held on 18 June 2001, when its hasty and unargued expression of disciplinary measures, MP Stevan Kesejić, caused violence and harm to the MPs. Because of this, we believe that the vice-president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly is directly responsible for the unloved scenes in the National Assembly, and that its resolution is a necessary condition for Serbia's parliamentary life to return to normal flows." It's part of the story. The other part of the story is much worse, which we remember all of us who were in this room, when they were pulled out, turned their hands, the MPs whom the people chose in this assembly. We remember the comments of you, one part of you, who were, and one lady who was now heard, who was verbated by every other word, to which each first word was offended, but to know the citizens of Serbia, she said - we bloody came to this power, we will mother to you... etc. Here, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is what Serbian citizens should trust and believe that in the vengeful and hateful atmosphere they will be able to live better. There's no way with these MPs sitting here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9212	As far as Article 33 is concerned, that's your right. That's what you're using right now. As for the violation of Rules of Procedure and Rule 99, this is the following: I was not in the O.R., I did not watch what was going on, but I examined the stenographic notes and I find that the chairman fully respected the Rules of Procedure, because she said the first one, and after some time and the second notice. After reading to you, Mr Kesejic used the following words, for which he was warned, just under Article 99, which you quoted as saying: "As an SRS MP, I believe that most ministers in the government do not have moral credibility. We can talk first of all about Minister Mihajlovic, Police Minister, then Justice Minister Vladan Batic and Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic." Then: "We are confident that Nebojsa Covic with her company FMP - Trade, which steals... "Is that a spread of hate. It's not the spread of hate, and you're the judge. After that, he was warned for the second time. "As I said, the ministers sitting in the government are corrupt to that extent... "and so on. These were the reasons why his word was taken and, of course, after the refusal of Mr. Kesajic to leave the pay phone, the measure of distance from the session was also said. I am sorry that the president of the SRS parliamentary group insisted that Mr Kesjejic not leave the speaker, knowing that his health is the way it is, that he has had a heart attack, but, above all, the consequences of such behaviour must be borne by MPs and MPs themselves. Mr Branislav Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9213	Mr. Martian, I must tell you that I am not answering at all because of you or the MPs present, because there is obviously no point in advocating the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I am reporting for the citizens of Serbia and for Article 96. If, Mr. Martian, you have looked, a member of 96 says: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP from another parliamentary group, citing his name and last name, or function... etc. That is, he misreads his exposure, the People's Messenger to whom the exposure applies, has the right to reply. "Mr. Martian, it would be very good to read, you personally, for your sake and for one of your authority and respect, which one part of us here has towards you, the presentation of Stanko Kovacevic, the MP who was before Mr. Kesjejic was exposed. In his presentation, Stanko Kovacevic was directly insulting, saying that the head of the parliamentary group, of another party here, was stealing etc. He did not receive any notice from your successor, in that place, not a single reminder, and that is the case - Mrs Natasa Micic, directly, double the standards of the opposition MPs and MPs, the real problems of this assembly, and always all the problems happened when she chaired. Mr Stanko Kovacevic, who directly insulted our colleagues, the MPs, the head of the parliamentary group, has not warned one single time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9214	He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9215	Mr. President, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 101, 102 and 103, and since I see that you are very interested, to inform you that MP Stevan Kesejić has been transferred to the Emergency Centre, that they are now determining the state of the enzyme, that the first video showed that he has had a mild heart attack and that we will wait, we MPs of the SRS, to determine how seriously his health situation is, to decide whether we will continue to participate in this session. Mr. President, the fact that you weren't here, it can't amnestize you, for the conduct of those who replaced you, and for these behaviors we've shown you in good time. I agree, if you really want to go into a rough fight with the SRS and with its parliamentary group, do it as a representative of one big political party, let someone from the Democratic Party, as a representative of the big political party, know who we're dealing with. But, you know, to go after some of us who have this one trip to politics, and who will never be in politics again, that they challenge in this assembly, and perhaps in the streets of Serbia, serious conflicts between people who think differently, I don't think it suits you, as president of the National Assembly. If you had a stenogram in your hand, you know that Mr. Kesejić was disfellowshipped, when he said, "We are convinced that this law is amnesty for the current government, because as I have stated, and you see that it has connections, that the ministers sitting in the government are corrupt to such an extent that they will be amnested only by the fact," and that time was excluded. What Mr. Stanko Kovacevic said before, we didn't even look for a replica, Mr. President. You warned him once, when you found out he wasn't talking about a subject that's on the agenda, but you didn't warn him with words to exaggerate, to accuse, to abuse a pay phone. You didn't even intend to punish him in any way according to the Rules of Procedure. He said that now that we have been in power, we are sending the DOS a message -- you are fighting 400,000 citizens of Serbia, but we who have abused, who have stolen, who have used the funds of the primary show, which we have committed the greatest robbery in mankind's history, do not accuse us of anything. He said that the elements of cheap basic food products were the source of the acquisition of enormous wealth of the ruling oligarchy. You see, it's easy for you to say -- yes, it is true, as I say -- that today's ministers, some of the ministers in today's government, are corrupt. This is determined by some other organs, but here there must be the same archin, the same criteria you have to apply to each one. You, Mr. President, are neglecting the fact that MP benches have been torn up here, because the Security Service, the Assembly, has been ordered to remove one MP who has been disfellowshipped from the session, no matter what they do to non-exclusive MPs. And all of us sitting in this room, in our seats, were scattered and thrown out of this assembly hall, to reach the envoy who was expelled. This has not been applied in this congregation since 1994, but then there was one dictatorial authority. You know how you've dealt with these situations before - to pause, so unless the MP, the representative of the people, leaves the pay phone, the session is interrupted, the next day he's not allowed to enter the O.R., and things are settled. There was a physical attack on the 22rd and 23rd MPs, who refused to leave the room. During that time, you were looking carefreely, Mr. President, at the internal transmission - whether it would go beyond the measure, and even if it went beyond the measure, you excluded the public, there was no one there, except for a few MPs who were embarrassing themselves, getting and asking to be treated even harder. Mr. President, a very bad chapter is opening in the history of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have the misfortune of being under you. Serbian radicals will not allow anyone to beat them here, I guarantee you, and they will not allow anyone to hold a session so that they are beaten here. Identify what criteria you will apply to the MPs and make them all equal to you. If I can't say that today's minister of robbery, he must not say that he robbed the previous minister unless he was convicted by a judicial verdict. Those are some criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9216	Mr. Nikolic, I'm warning you, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9217	Well, you can kick me out now, Mr. President, maybe that would be the easiest thing for you to do, just get these benches first, get them in some order, so the people don't see what the police are doing with the MPs. And to some MPs, who have personal security in this National Assembly, let me say, no more of your security to send to beat up MPs. We'll deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9218	To the truth, just one short sentence -- no one beats the Serbian Radical Party MPs, but casts out, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, MPs who will not stand alone from the session, and that is their choice, is not my choice, nor anyone who holds the chair of the session. If there are no more objections to the Rules of Procedure, since Vitomir Plužarevic is absent, the word has been made by MP Boris Karaicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9219	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it's very difficult for me to speak after this incident, but I guess the people have seen what they're doing and what they think. I wouldn't go back to the past, the people said that in the elections, but I think that this law, whether we want it or not, is back in the past, because we've also committed ourselves in campaigns before these elections, and every time in the myths across Serbia, that's where we're going to discover, expose and tell the people the truth about what whoever's been doing these ten years. And I believe there is no area as mystified as the area of crime. And if it was just a crime on its own, if someone were stealing it, it would sooner or later be proven before the court, and those services that are responsible for it, they would do it. But there is a much worse thing and more important than that, which is that the government used that system of values, ruined it, and made each of us criminals. I really don't know any of us here who didn't once change the street 100 marks, who didn't do anything, which was against the law, formally. Of course, that led people to think on that principle, if I could take advantage of this system, and it's probably no big deal that some ministers, some people who are in power, are doing it on a much bigger scale. Of course, that period is behind us, fortunately. This law, in itself, I think there is a lot of flaw because this law does not, at least to me, guarantee that all those people who have acquired in a privileged way an economic benefit will be brought to justice to answer. But there were other ways. There was a way to bring a law on the origin of property, there were other options, but this is a good start for me, a good first step, but this first step isn't enough, and unless there's a criminal responsibility behind this, I really have no intention of talking about it in some way, buying foreign currency by six dinars, he didn't break the law. Of course he wasn't breaking the law formally, but that law was passed in a way that was very well known here, the government that was who she was, she brought it, and where it says in the Constitution that it's good and that it can be stolen, that someone can be rich in other people's torment. It does not say in any constitution, nor in the law, it is not the story of the contradiction of this law, that this is the back of a specialis, is the back of a specialis if you look only formally-legal, but I ask all those who are calling for rights, to formality, I will take them through Serbia to look at those houses, and villas, and cars of those people who had very little or almost none of that, and how it is possible that a man who has reported a salary of 200 marks, 300 marks, 500 marks, pays on that tax, that he has so many cars, villas, etc., and that he has not broken the law. So it's not just about whether or not someone broke the law or didn't violate it formally, it's a much more important thing that justice, that our people's insatiable need to the end of the exorcism. I don't expect it to be today or in five months, in a year, but I expect this country to show by this law that it has serious intentions. I wouldn't bid on whether or not he is, but from today on out, I expect Mr. Radovic, whom none of us know what he looks like, and that's a very good start, that in a few months he comes here and says, that's what you're saying, that's those people, that's the money that someone gained on the blood and sweat of their people. As you know, there are symbols of various kinds of power, political power, it was Mr. Milosevic, and he's in prison. But for me it is a symbol of economic power, and it is indeed my personal attitude, the symbol of that economic power is Mr. Bogoljub Karic. As long as this country doesn't find it appropriate to treat this problem so, that even if it fits a little bit and explains, not just to us, but to the citizens, as he has acquired it, that money, how he got the right to set up "Mobtel", how he got the right to set up various colleges, etc., and as long as it doesn't happen, let it be five years later, it won't be possible to say that this country is standing on its feet, that it's democratic and that it's what we deserve. Indeed, this is not a call for revenge or for rematchism, this is just a call and my request, and I've been saying that in various myths and tribunes, I've been getting like all of you around here from DOS always got a big round of applause. I only demand that no one slip through, that this law be the beginning of a new era which will be the beginning of anyone who is exploited, not only of the law, because many are not, but of elementary morality, therefore, that each corresponds sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9220	The word has been made by MP Branko Pavlovic, and then by the peoples, MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate in parliament over this law on one-time taxation of extra income basically needs to answer two questions. The first is whether those who have become unjustly rich, who have acquired great wealth in a short period of time, should continue to be protected and untouchable. The second question is how do we do it, how do we cover all those sources of their wealth and get that wealth back to the state, through the state and the citizens, to which it originally belongs. This first thing is purely political will. So, you simply or you want to do it and there's DOS with this bill very clear. You will or will not, and then this is what we hear more or less from the opposition. What makes us think that this wealth should be taken away for the benefit of the state and subsequently distributed to the citizens? Because we see a direct link between the dictatorship of the regime of Slobodan Milosevic and their wealth, because we see a direct link between their wealth and the total poverty and the collapse of this country and the citizens of this country. As for the very content of this law, and I am pleased as a member of the Social Democratic Union that most DOS have come to this point as its essence, that this legislative proposal is basically some kind of nationalisation law. In fact, there's a lot of talk here about criminal responsibilities. No, this law solves a completely different approach. Furthermore, it is about wealth acquired in accordance with then applicable regulations, but we say - under such unfair conditions, that in the name of justice today we must return it to state property, and by means of an expensive property, or budget, later, to the citizens. So, a couple of examples of the Nationalisation Act, and that's a typical example of when, in some very difficult social circumstances, there's no other way than to resort to grips and in such a way that some huge imbalances and huge privileges would be reduced to a socially acceptable measure. The second part of the debate and it will be more or less discussed when we talk about the law in particular, when we discuss amendments. He needs to answer us what are all forms of wealth, in which all these things were made up of this huge wealth that we, and I agree with my president completely, naked eye, simply when we walk down the street or when we walk through some neighborhoods. In that second part, unlike the first part, I think the experiences of the opposition will be of considerable benefit to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9222	The People's Messenger Anita Beretic has the word, and after her, Petar Jojic, is not present, after which the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9223	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for one thing, of course I have to express my personal regret for one bitter pill that we all wanted or didn't want to drink about an hour ago in this assembly. But it's simply an inevitability and, moreover, my fellow citizen, I regret that he continued to, after all, agree to be manipulated by his party's failed policy, that the heads of his parliamentary group used him with his poor health condition and thus the dramatics of the incident have strengthened him. Every time I want to point out that DOS MPs want to exhibit in this assembly and impose a new model of behavior that is in any case far from what we witnessed. There were words in the analysis of the bill's proposal that, for example, the bill's proposal, something that the law doesn't know, something that's like legal violence, but my God, how is now legally sanctioning something that's legally acquired? At the same time, I would ask why and how not legally sanctioned or better said, they do not recover later, even in minimum quantities, if that is at all measurable, those who are also legally poor at the same time under the same laws. The retroactiveness of this law for me personally, allow me a little and personal consideration, has a parenting symbolism. The first of January 1989 is a time when my children were quite small, when they heard the rattles and the war calls and this time-out, so this time-out we're in, I think there are two necessary treatments. One is the general social one, one is the political one, one that we'll clear from everything that's been done on the premises of the former SFRY. Of course I believe that there are a very large number of people in our Serbia who do not agree, who never really agreed to Serbia be humiliated and that the Serbian people be declared all those names that have been declared. The first therapy is a historical, political sobering that individuals in the Serb people have committed crimes, that the misdemeanors have their bearers, that they have their names and names. The second part of therapy is this particular field dealing with the bill. It's connected. While at the same time throughout all the wars, in wars that have never been declared, in which we have won, many of our fellow citizens, many of our people, have died with honor, at the same time from these same battlefields, who today and these days are trying to attack and bring down the essence of this law, have returned with their war prey in the form of technical goods, money, cars, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9224	Mrs. Beretic, don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9225	Someone's war is always war, and someone's war is brother. At the same time, our economy has failed, our sanctions have been earned, but how is it possible that at the time of the sanctions, when empty shelves came out of our stores with e.g. sugar boards, remember that they called themselves so confident of "chocolate", that at the same time we and our children in the area look at some new guys well dressed in a very luxurious car, and that in our neighborhoods there is nothing that can be called houses or humble homes. These 1989 children of mine, and in 1992, 1993, 1994, when she was savaged never and nowhere known hyperinflation as ours then, he asked me, for example. my middle son-- mom what is that candy, or-- mom, will we ever have money to buy bananas? At that time, as an educational worker with three, four and five months of delays, I received a salary of 1-2 marks. At the same time, those situations were happening, and just next to me were passing by by those capable people that I wasn't able to explain to my children and my students how they were capable and why their refrigerators were full, which makes me incompetent, and my refrigerator with three children is empty. It's hardly a problem to forget. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think it's quite clear that he clearly states and lists a number of situations that will arise, whose perpetrators will actually come under the influence of this law. Like. only to remind ourselves, the use of the funds of primary and grey money emissions in financial transactions, the purchase of foreign exchanges in the official course of the NBJ in a situation where the market rate was higher, imports and distribution of excise products without payment of customs duties, other import duties, etc., supply of goods reserves and purchases from goods reserves under privileged conditions, abuses in the privatisation of enterprises by directors and members of management bodies, the construction of a representative residential, i.e. a business facility whose total area is larger than prescribed and permitted, the use of credit for the purchase of business space, i.e. equipment under conditions more favourable to the debtor than the marketable, and the use of funds deposited by citizens in pyramid banks. Speaking of which, just one detail. In the work group's current activities dealing with these problems, a huge documentation material has been collected so far on two pyramid banks and 1,700 savings banks. It was unequivocally established: 1. that behind the idea of creating, constructing and working these financial institutions, above all the "Dafiment Bank" stood the competent state authorities; 2. that pyramidal banks and many savings banks worked directly with the NBJ, then SDK and other state institutions; 3. that certain business moves of these banks were taken with a direct agreement with the political leadership of the country, including former President of the Republic of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic; 4 that the entire business of these financial institutions was illegal, with some persons having achieved great material benefit, even after their formal closure. The adoption of this law is small, but significant moral compensation to the state and to hundreds of thousands of those who have poored and perished along with that state, and those few hundred or more, who are precisely in the name of that country and in the name of national interests, have invited us all to eat roots, and in that time and in a manner we have been rich, while we have received a poor pair of early noon pay, which may have already been worth threefold less in the afternoon, and therefore this law, above all, is moral. I will, of course, vote for this law and not only on my own behalf and not on behalf of my own party, not on behalf of the DOS Parliament Club, but I believe, above all, in the name of hundreds of thousands of those who have survived those 12 years as hard as most of us here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9226	The People's MP Miomir Ilic has the word, followed by the MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9227	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the constitutional basis for the adoption of a law on one-off income tax and extra property acquired by the use of special benefits, as stated in the proposal for a law, is found in Article 52. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which declares that everyone is obliged to pay taxes and other taxes established by law. This is written in the light of this bill. It is true that there is a constitutional basis or constitutional framework, but nowhere in the Serbian Constitution does it say that taxation can be done retroactively, especially to take place decades back. The reasons for the adoption of the law, as stated in the explanation, are unreasonable and highly unargued. To argue that there is no evidence of this, that the rule of Slobodan Milosevic has left the most serious consequences for the development of Serbian society in the last decade of the 20th century, is tendingly and directed against the former president of Serbia and the SRJ and the SPS, as the leading parties in the period. Although this party I belong to wasn't alone in this period of power. This can best be confirmed by some of the current vice-presidents of the Republic government, who did not have an impact on the events of the previous decade. As well as creating opportunities to obtain extra income and property under special benefits. It is clear to all Serbian citizens that over the past decade, Serbia has not caused a political or economic crisis at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. The disintegration of the former Yugoslavia was initiated by Slovenians, the Croats continued, so Muslims, and the Cypriots were not indifferent during that period, although Kosovo remained a Serbian country. All-round assistance in the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, as well as the creation of crisis hotspots (from the hall: the topic), the topic is the economic crisis, provided by Americans and their European subjects. In such conditions, former President Milosevic and the SPS, which is normal, protected the interests of the Serb people and cannot be blamed for all the events that took place during that period. To explain that the rule of Slobodan Milosevic caused the devaluation of the national economy, the decline of the social product...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9228	Please stick to the subject. We're not analyzed at all...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9229	This is explained by the Bill's proposal, the devaluation of 1993 and 1994, the appearance of a gray economy, the criminalisation of the state and others, and not to mention that it may not be the reason for all of this and the desire of certain republican leaders to secede their banana republics, then the introduction of irregular sanctions of the international community that have led to market disturbances and the appearance of a grey economy in all areas of engagement. In such conditions, the economy, and in particular agriculture, has worked in various ways to obtain the necessary repromaterials, diesel fuel, artificial fertilizer and others. Now are we not going to tax as extra income on supply, say, diesel fuel for agricultural needs, when we all knew that the only way to get the same was as we usually say in the people, in black. With this I do not justify all those legal and physical persons who can come under the influence of this law, which, I must say, is a precedent in world legal terminology. On the contrary, I advocate that all those who have illegally made themselves rich or acquired property for special benefits bear the proper consequences. For this are already existing laws and this is the law on property tax, the Law on Income Tax, the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. To be explicit that this law has been applied since 1.1.1989, not only is it hypocritical, but it is highly unargumented. Why this date, why not earlier? Not only have individuals been rich since this date, but it was before 1.1.1989. The inheritances and similar locations 50 years ago and over were filled with rich people whose assets were not investigated. How did they come to be rich? I therefore propose that this law be applicable from, say, February 15th, 1804th, when the start of the First Serbian uprising was announced in Orasco, as the date of the state holiday of the Republic of Serbia, so-called. Meetings. I'm sure there weren't any rich ones back then. Just keep quiet, you've got something to say later. Perhaps someone will say that it is not possible to examine both such property and such wealth. Why not? That's why it serves as an example and this law. This bill will also tax the persons who are heirs to the property acquired under special advantages. Who can claim that all property in Serbia has been acquired under special benefits since the period 1.1.1989. For that reason, I suggest we start from the 19th century and determine the true state of affairs in this problem. As an MP for the Socialist Party of Serbia, I am not against the investigation of origin and taxation but I am against the way and given an explanation in this bill. I advocate that the taxation of property acquired with special benefits is done for all acquired assets, unarmed, i.e.. for all assets acquired in the past and in the future. With October 5th and the DOS revolution, the acquisition of assets and income has not ceased under special advantages and circumstances. The gray economy and other benefits did not stop, such as cigarette smuggling. New rich people suck like mushrooms after the rain. That's why they need to be found in interrogations and taxation. Here we also have a fresh example - individuals who obviously do not belong to that former government, gain certain advantages and benefits, let's say, with a regulation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has prescribed on how to settle debts from the past and reprogramme debts. There is a close relative of the leading furniture from the Republic Government, who in one way buys from social enterprises and, using this regulation, now has certain advantages and benefits. For that reason, I suggested it not to be armed. One cannot buy out social firms and, under the auspices of the regulation, acquire certain rights by offering, for example, five thousand dinars, a period of payment of five years with a grace period of two years and thus write off a debt, i.e. to pay off a debt. Here, this is a typical example, why you're not going to this to make this one-time tax, which is a one-time tax, but a one-time tax that should have a term not since 1.1.1989, but maybe a long time ago or maybe a period. And finally, to take advantage of these few minutes to say that the events that took place this morning in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are not like the MPs chosen by the will of the citizens, that what happened at this time does not know that I, as a representative of the SPS and an MP, condemn this way and procedure. As an SPS MP, I believe that Serbian Parliament Vice-President Natasa Micic (is a friend, for me is a friend) should resign on this duty, as in a number of circumstances and a number of his actions, it causes everything that causes it. There is a typical example and a witness to what we see here, that it does not represent the will of the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9230	Please, Mr. Ambassador...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9231	Yeah, that's right, if he has rank and morals, then he needs to do what he needs to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9232	If only they didn't say, here I am now moving on to breaking the Rules of Procedure, so that... The People's MP Slobodan Pavlovic has the word, followed by the MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9233	They tell me colleagues - Mr. Pavlovic, examples of tone. I will absolutely compare the tone and immediately say that I am joining the proposal that we have sent as a parliamentary group, that Mrs. Micic should be resolved (from the hall: topic), the topic is absolutely because of the way she conducted the session and provoked what happened. Also, to condemn the inappropriate conduct of the Service, but I don't know that's likely for security in the Assembly, which I believe was very wrongly treated by the MPs of the SRS. I would have done the same thing if you gentlemen in the second row had started with Jovanovic, and in turn, it was about you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President of the National Assembly, we are considering the law on one-off income tax and extra property, which was acquired by the use of special benefits, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted. As you have heard, the SPS parliamentary group in this Parliament and I personally, absolutely support the idea of passing a law with the objectives given in its title, which is that those who have acquired property and extra income in an unfair way must pay for it. At the same time, I must also say that the law according to its content and legal norms it brings must be in that spirit, not to be dealt with with by political insinuators or the entire SPS, and legal and physical persons who were in this period in power or in the nomenclature, as it says in the explanation. By the way, I have to say that the explanation is inappropriate and catastrophic and that in all of this I share the opinion expressed by my colleague, Zarko Obradovic, so as not to take up your time. Why do I think this law is so defined? First, the law introduces retroactivity, and subsequent taxation of previous incomes is a transparent example of retroactivity. There's no Mr. Djelic, so he can't hear this. I guess somebody's gonna pass it on to him. Secondly, the scope of the law is inconsistencies, including cases where there was no stretching according to then applicable regulations and cases where the applicable regulations, alleged to have been incorrect. Third, there are no real frameworks for comprehensive and automatic law enforcement, which is also a handicap of this legal project. Fourthly, because of lack of automation, selectivity and arbitration in law enforcement are possible. The fifth methodology, both in determining cases and in quantification, has not been worked out, so the whole question is how the law will be enforceable. The subject matter of taxation has been developed in Article 2. I must also tell the President of the Assembly and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament one truth - the amendments that I have submitted to this law, for technical reasons they have not been found in the procedure, so I will say something concrete about the members who define this law. On the other hand, it is normal to expect that consumer behaviour depends on current circumstances and, among other things, on the income incurred. For example, someone could fly abroad, someone could buy a car, because he rightly felt that his current income obligations were fully met and in accordance with the applicable regulations. The company used to use extra income as compensation for the effects of other circumstances, which could also be called disadvantages for the company at that time. If the income obligations under the applicable regulations are not met, for such cases there are other laws and for that case law at all, as a special one, it does not have to be passed. I will ask the question, since Article 2 is written, why is it proposed date 1.1.1989, not 31.5.1992, when sanctions are imposed on us. This was still SFRY, and this wasn't even the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Secondly, it is an interesting solution to Article 3 within Articles 8 and 11. No author. I don't know who I'm talking to. Mr. Jovanovic, who's going to pass this on? (Kadomir Jovanovic: I will.) I'm asking you to do it, because I don't know why I should be saying what I'm saying. This is what I say to those who write the law and who propose. Are you and the legislator and the author of the law? Yes, it is. Please pass it on. Therefore, in Article 11, the taxpayer is obliged to file a tax return, underlining, with data on the subject and the value of taxation. If you've read the law, the subject is somehow defined by Article 3. The value of the item is nowhere. In fact, Article 8 defines only the tax base, which is not the same as the value of the subject matter of taxation. It seems that the taxpayer is not expected to show the amount of the tax base, nor could he be able to. For example, which taxpayer of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm not sure, maybe one of you will pay for this, so that he knows who was good in the last 4,500 days. Do you know how much that is? It's been a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, interesting solutions in Articles 3 and 8. One defines the transaction from which the subject of taxation arises, which is the essence of things, and in Article 8 of the tax base. They are in Article 3, ladies and gentlemen, and this applies to authors who are not here, which are Popovic and Djelic, the funds and the 8th loan. Now I'm asking you, does the credit user need to know from which sources the funds were received for the loans? Does it need to carry out a real value budget or only provide you with information on current values? Will this solve the content of the tax application, prescribed by Minister Djelic? They won't, because for all the other regulations, even for gross earnings, there's no time prescribed and they were late for profits. Maybe this time he'll get better, so you'll recommend it to Mr. Jovanovic. Article 8 shows that the basis is the value of imports, i.e. exports. What about the costs that some of the other items are explicitly mentioned? Also, Article 8 states that the tax base is a price difference. The price is a unit value, as you know. Does strict adherence to Article 8 mean that if retrograde prices are 5,00 or 7,00 dinars, and tax base is 2,00 dinars, depending on the quantity of goods, which is an enclatan example of technological discrepancies in relation to the law proposed. In point 11 of Article 3. - the taxpayer is required in the tax return to provide information on the subject of taxation. Therefore, all cases of the existence of circumstances referred to in Article 3. He'd also have to deliver data on any abuse in privatisation. That's the law we'll have at the next agenda. Now I ask you, and author - what is abuse in privatisation? In this law, it's absolutely not explained. Is abuse something initiated by the Commission of the Government of Serbia's report on the examination of abuses, which has been abolished since the gentleman who led was relieved. If so, then in Article 11, the author must know, it should be stated - the tax application should contain information on the subject matter referred to in Article 3, except the items to be... Interesting solutions in points 12 and 13. I understand Mr. Pal Shandor's amendment to article 9 and Article 13. But even though it is, I'm deliberately provoking a question like this now -- whether the bill promoter had any intention or intended that in case someone for the purchase of a larger apartment than he belongs to, he was using a loan, he was taxing extra space with 180%. So, 90% by 12 for ransom and by Article 13. And 90% for credit as well. They say that that member's been suspended, so I'm gonna skip it. I'm running out of time. I don't want the president, far away from me, to have Mrs. Micic preside over me and take away my word. I'll skip 12 more points. Article 5 speaks of other taxpayers. I ask Mr. Djelic to follow. He is a member of the board of directors. In order for someone to be a emancipator, I guess they should give consent first. Who would have agreed to be director or member of the board of directors, if he had known then that company decisions guaranteed personal, private property. (President: Time. ) Perhaps neither would you, nor would I, nor would Mr. Jovanovic. In Article 7, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility of the founder of the legal entity has been defined. Perhaps there are some among you who will come, if nothing else, under this member's lease. The legal person who made extra income, it says in the law, can no longer exist, and then the debtor is his founder. Article 11 states that the founder in this case is obliged to file a tax application within 30 days. (President: Mr. Pavlovic, either finish or get out of the O.R. I said you didn't accept any of the 10 amendments. Please give me three minutes for one amendment. I've submitted 10 amendments and they haven't entered the procedure. Give me one amendment for three minutes. (President: I cannot give you such a thing, I can only tolerate time overruns, with the consent of the MPs. I don't want to provoke that anymore. I'd have 12 more members to criticise. It's not criticism, Mr. Djelic, but, and you'll see for yourself, something needs to be done in terms of the correction of the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen, since I'm not a professor, like Dr. Lilic and Professor Seselj, I don't know if there's a law like this anywhere or not. I don't even know if he can be in legal traffic or not. And, more importantly, Kovacevic spoke, as did Minister Djelic and others, about some of the louses in our ranks and your ranks. I don't really know how many punks from our ranks or your ranks are gonna pay. Let everyone pay, that's fair. But I certainly know that such a law would be ensured in terms of six important parameters, in order to ensure constitutionality, equality, justice, objectivity, legal certainty, integrity and above all viability, must have serious changes, so in this sense I call on Minister Djelic and the authors of this law to make a maximum effort and to propose more radical changes to the Assembly or to accept the amendments that we have proposed and thus provide something of general interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9234	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9235	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has sent the Assembly a bill on one-off income tax and extra property acquired by taking advantage of special benefits, and for the SPS MPs and by accepting the proposed amendments may also be acceptable, but not as proposed. It is known that socialists are committed to detecting and taxing undeserved property, as well as to more justly taxing any natural and legal person who has acquired extra income or extra property. But it won't be possible by this law. I'm sure I won't come under the influence of this law, as well as all my fellow SPS MPs. Nor is the largest number of socialists, regardless of his tendently directed, and it also states in the explanation - on members of the earlier nomenclature. How and whether this authority will apply it to all those who have changed their uniforms, who have been in the SPS, have acquired property and wealth, and are now in DOS and are doing it again. This bill is a bit of a reminder of earlier IO CKJ proposals, where a campaign against corruption was launched, where taxation and confiscation of illegally acquired assets, extra assets and extra income were sought. However, that roar and noise did not produce certain results. So it doesn't happen the same way with this law, based on assumptions and estimates of extra income and extra property. Is this DOS supposed to be used to fight non-instincts, and in an effort to establish a single-party system and authoritative rule? This law re-uses certain terms, such as income, extra income, extra profit, which was applicable to socialist goods production and the socialist self-government system. I thought that we had cleared up a long time ago and that the last ten years, by starting a transition, we have parliamentary democracy, a market economy that affirms and private property. It is indicative that this law is adopted in 1.1.1989. What exactly is this date? Which, in the light of the adoption of this law, is not one word of sanctions, which have mostly contributed to the gray economy and to everything else that has allowed some individuals to pass certain regulations and illegally acquire enormous wealth. I'm not sure the DOS government is not going to question legitimately acquired property by applying this law, where they advocate a market economy based on private property. What about income from property, without which there is no market economy. Since income is the difference between income and expenditure incurred by operators, then extra income should be defined as an surplus that is achieved above the average income within a branch or economy as a whole. In addition, it should be said that there are several types of extra income, and here it is referred to as institutional extra income, and it is defined as income, which was generated on the basis of appropriate economic policy measures, and which is formulated and implemented by the government of a country. Therefore, it should be said that the differentiated approach to prices in different branches led to the spillover of income from one company to another. This creates different positions of branches and groups in primary distribution. In addition to price, there is also a value-based overflow of income through taxes, contributions, regresses, compensation, education and use of monetary and foreign resources, selective loans, customs and the like. In this way, the deformations in existing prices were corrected, covering 10 to 15% of the social product. Therefore, it should be said that the adoption of institutional extra income by certain economic organisations, and by Article 3 in paragraphs 1 to 10 of the proposed law, was made exclusively because of economic and social development, and that is to say, I would remind myself of the acquisition of oil derivatives through "Yugopetrol" at the regressed prices for agricultural producers, combined and service activities. So here the government has been directing income through economic policy instruments, designed to achieve defined objectives of economic and social development. Is the law aimed at eliminating and compromising political opponents, or non-insistant, as they discriminatoryly speak. The 12th and 13th in Article 3, which mentions the purchase of apartments larger than those belonging to the criteria, then the use of loans to buy apartments, but also only the functioner. He's probably thinking about everything, not just some. What about all those who sold apartments and made other transactions. What about the agencies that made the real estate sales an exta income. I would also point out some illogicalness or indetermination of certain members of the proposed law. For example, in Article 5, which regulates other taxpayers, what if they are, for example, tax debtors. Died, or in article 6, where members of family and household are mentioned. I think their composition is differently regulated, by other laws, and it should be legally harmonised. On Article 8, which regulates the basis for a one-time tax, I have no objections, but in Article 9, there is one major legal uncertainty, where powers are given to the Director of RUJP to conclude with the taxpayer an agreement on the height of the established tax base. This is not good because this director is supposed to apply tax laws, not negotiate. And now he's the chairman of the commission, and he'll be doing some research anyway. Here, article 13 is particularly interesting because it provides the taxpayer with a 35 per cent reduction option if he delivers credible data. Well, I guess they all have to supply accurate information or answer for untruths, not reward themselves in this way. When it comes to Article 19, the possibility of a legal remedy must be left, and Article 25 does not comply with federal regulations. In order to determine the extra yield, it is necessary to strictly classify the factors internal and external. Will this government be able to accurately and objectively determine the extra income resulting from internal and especially external factors? It is likely that this law will be difficult to implement, so we have asked for a lot of things or elements, which cannot be determined, and even by tests and controls, but from the course of this debate and the amendments that are proposed, will depend on our statement about it. As Minister Djelic said in his opening statement, he should also be a lesson for the DOS, and I would like to join those MPs and think that the vice-president of the assembly, Mrs Micic, should resign because of the contribution that led to the incident in the afternoon session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9236	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric. I would just like to read you the information I received from the Director of the Emergency Centre, Dr. Bajeca - MP Kesejić has chronicly elevated blood pressure, the ECG is fine, he has scratches on his hands and bruises behind his ear, so thank God everything is fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9237	Dear President, honourable MPs, respected members of the government, in principle, it is acceptable to pass this law. Fair taxation of income and property is an effective way of introducing order in the economy of a country. Mechanisms must be found to pay taxes to all those who have earned a significant income on the property and have not paid taxes. Our common goal is to prevent crime and corruption. However, it is not appropriate to state in the light of the law that the main reason for the expansion of the grey economy, the poverty of the population, the criminalisation of society and the second rule of Slobodan Milosevic in the previous decade is that of the state. Why do they consciously want to amnesty of Western powers, which have affected the country’s unfavourable economic movements with their greatest measure? I mean here, first of all, the seduction of economic sanctions, the unremembered economic quarantine of a country, to NATO destruction. Why is there no objective assessment in the explanation - how much transition does it affect the criminalization of society? The eastern countries outside the former Yugoslavia were not at war, nor were economic sanctions imposed. Let's see how much they have the participation of the grey economy - ranging from 25 to 50% in the overall economy. How many taxes are not paid, how much is the criminalisation of society increased? It's normal for the transition to be. Returning to capitalism is a complex process, which objectively creates many problems in all the countries where it is implemented. Let's keep in mind that everywhere in the world is trying to avoid paying taxes. That's why every state is trying to build effective mechanisms to make citizens pay taxes. The next step in the fight against crime -- it's normal for regulations to be passed with us, to also confiscate property acquired in an illegal manner. Today, when we are having a debate on this law and a one-time tax, it is not about illegally obtained income and property, but about income that has recently been earned by taking advantage of special benefits. Due to economic sanctions, the country could not survive, if it were not possible to bring in various ways to import necessary raw materials and goods. As we could then obtain drugs, oil, various raw materials and others, even if there were no economic sanctions from the UN, and if certain bans were put on, trade would have found a way to avoid them. Let's remember the axiom that the store is like water -- any obstacle to setting up, she finds a way around it. And in the most developed countries, with a regulated economy and legislation, there is a gray economy and a significant part of the achieved gross social product remains untaxed. At the beginning of this year, the European Parliament announced an assessment that at least 15% of the country's gross social product, an EU member, is being created in a grey economy. In Greece, Spain, Italy, every third worker participates in the gray economy. In Germany, they estimate that 16% of gross social product remained untaxed last year. Let us not cultivate the illusion that we will be able to completely eradicate the gray economy by passing this law. Certainly, this law should, in addition to ensuring a substantial amount of budget spending, affect the management of the grey economy in the future. I think it is necessary now in the process of its adoption to make significant clarifications and additions. First, it is necessary to clearly define how extra income is determined. In theory, income is known to be the difference between income and expenditure, and extra income is the surplus above the average income, which is realised within the corresponding industries and economies as a whole. Without precision of the criteria for determining extra income, this law will in fact be inapplicable or will provide incredible applicability in application, depending on the case, to the case. The bill taxed 19 indicative emphasiss - framework conditions under which the taxpayer could obtain extra income and extra property. The government is now proposing that, if the taxpayer has achieved extra income and extra property on a number of different grounds, that the Republic Public Revenue Administration can conclude with the taxpayer an agreement on the level of tax. I think it's unsustainable to accept such a provision. If someone has earned extra income and extra property on a number of different grounds, it is necessary to pay the extra income tax, i.e. property, on any basis, without exception. It's obvious that the state has no evidence that all new people have broken the law, so it wants to agree with them, but there are no clear criteria. This creates exceptional conditions for corruption. It is not necessary to leave the possibility that someone can approve a discount outside the law and make guesses and deals with tax bonds. The basic criteria must be facts, and nothing else. Furthermore, I find it unsustainable to cut the tax by 35% to those taxpayers who listed true data in the tax returns. When this assembly recently adopted amendments to tax laws, it was given an explanation that, in fact, we are making tax reform and introducing tax standards of European legislation. One of the basic settings of this tax legislation is tax discipline. That is why it is unsustainable now, instead of compulsory adherence to tax discipline, to give a discount, because the taxpayer truthfully stated the facts. If the government's proposal is not amended, it will be a dangerous precedent for future tax payments and any other obligations. Also, I think it is not acceptable to approve a 50% discount on interest on those taxpayers who are allowed to postpone payment. In fact, it is possible for the taxpayer, if he cannot immediately pay a one-time extra income tax, to do so in three wars, and for the longest period of six months, from the date of delivery of the first-degree solution. The very fact that a delayed deadline is granted is an advantage for the taxpayer, so it is excessive and unfair to stimulate it by reducing interest by 50%. Such a proposal by the government is unsatisfactory for taxpayers, who would pay a one-off tax immediately after obtaining a solution. In fact, they will be stimulated to demand a delayed payment, because the reduced interest is more favourable than the bank loans for regular business. After the adoption of this bill, on the basis of several amendments submitted by MPs and opposition and DOS, the law will, in addition to many shortcomings, achieve at least a partial purpose, which is why it should be adopted. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to refer to a few sentences of today's afternoon events in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9238	Please, I can no longer allow every MP of the SPS to go out for a pay phone, report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, continue to violate it, within three minutes. It's really not the turn. Don't beg me, you said yourself that now you'll use... Well, don't, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9239	I want, as an MP, as well as a vast majority of citizens, to express my desire to never, like today, repeat the misunderstanding, intolerance and application of force. Let's just remind ourselves that Walter thinks that for wounded societies, it's a cure for tolerance. If we look back at what's been happening to us all these past ten years, from breaking Yugoslavia, economic sanctions, to NATO aggression, we are truly wounded by society. If anyone should predicate the spirit of creation and tolerance... (The President) I warn you, Mr. Petrich. )......................................................................................................... Then it should be the president of this assembly. I expect, in the future of this House, a much greater degree of tolerance and understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9240	It really doesn't make sense, I'm asking the SPS parliamentary group not to behave like this in parliament today. Should the DOS MPs now finish their presentation with two minutes of the repression story that we've suffered here for 50, 10 years, it really doesn't make sense. No one here today beat up the MPs. People's MPs who did not respect it were, not true, the Security Service, according to the Rules of Procedure, which you of the SRS wrote, applied the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the conduct of MPs who do not respect the decision of the National Assembly, on the distance from the session. And nothing more than that. If the MP gets his hands on the bench, he'll have scratches on his hands and there's nothing abnormal about it. That depends on him who commits such sins. Please, let's really stop this debate. The word has a folk MP Rada Bajic, followed by Ljubomir Kragovic, Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what about this law, or the bill of law that is before us today? The idea and motive absolutely every honest man will certainly welcome my 36 colleagues and I from the SPS would absolutely support it, but it assumes certain things that can be said like this - the law that will be clear, the law that will be laid down, not selective, not against the law, to be fair and just and ultimately be applicable. Unfortunately, this bill doesn't have any specifics. If we said it was unclear, I think whoever was reading it, it's clear that only article 10 is clear, which speaks of rates and amounts that are illegally acquired. I repeat that there are a hundred cards, I would put in all hundred votes for a bill like this, but we should all be equal in front of him and that anyone who's acquired in any way incorrectly, and I say inhuman, should be taxed. But selectively, even drastically, degradation or alluding to previous people and previous officials, well, that's not acceptable. When I say vague, I mean absolutely vague. I don't know if the legislator deliberately or not wanted to, or if he didn't know that the categories of income, extra income, as well as extra assets, were linked to a period of socialist goods production, so for a period that was long ago, even before 1989. By 1989, it already does not have or is not at its disposal with those terms, the terms of extra profits and profits are introduced, market economy, parliamentary democracy is introduced and therefore, the beginning of private property. Even in an explanation it's unclear or, let's not say they didn't know, but it's unacceptable to explain income and extra income by the same definition. It is known what income is and it is normal to always be treated as a difference of total income and total expenditure, but extra income is not already that. My comrades also said in the economy, I think in high school that the extra income is higher than the average income achieved in the branch or economy. It's a very precise piece of information that can be found as to what the average income was, so that one legal basis can be established if we want to tax someone because of some illegally acquired wealth. And yet here, if extra income and income are already used, only one kind of extra income is taken. It's the so-called institutional extra income every country has. The economic policy measures of the government in question always establish the measures and principles for its implementation, all in order to ensure social, economic, and thus the development of the social standard, because these are the measures that are necessary to ensure that in many economic branches, if there were some illogicalities, those documents. You also know very well from the economy, that there is a price spilling of income and so-called zencing income. You know that we have been in a situation surrounded by war in all the surrounding countries, unimaginably fierce or harsh sanctions, that many companies have worked hard, have hardly exported, imported or not imported, and that they simply had to resort to economic policy measures to correct some disparities, and then even had to approach non-income income spills. The non-priced over-income or aid of the economy in the industries or businesses is the granting of loans, selective, use of primary emissions, availability and monetary and foreign exchange funds, customs duties, various tax exemptions and contributions, etc. This was done in a legal way, so government decisions and the course of these laws in a principled way, in order to help businesses that hired a large number of workers, who had to survive in this way. When the law is unspeakable, it's unspeakable. Where's the gray economy? Someone said, "We're not going in there, and we're not going to drive 400,000 people." Neither will we. And no one is against those who sold rags in the market, sold some sprays, kids' toys, because they really had to in these very difficult, non-economic conditions because of sanctions to survive and no one called it that. It calls out those who really turned millions of marks and who today absolutely, are simply nowhere in this law. Why did I say he was selective? It's selective in one sentence when you say that the officials of the former government, political officials, directors, absolutely and absolutely, when you said it started in 1989, that you selectively, therefore, turned politically according to only one period. Where are the others? Is it possible that only directors were all socialists, that only they illegally acquired property? I'm absolutely up for, I repeat, that everyone, literally everyone comes and we're all going to, there's no decent man in the country who won't vote for this law, but not just selectively, not party officials that used to be, to whom does that apply? Not to yours, certainly, who were also rich, and were also rich, but not only in the gray economy, and that's why you're against the gray economy. When it all comes down to a plane, when it's just, I absolutely don't see, congratulations, I repeat, and a moral man won't vote for it. I'm absolutely gonna bring someone and morale that stamp and for what he did or got rich in an illegal way, but you say one of yours -- there's no more like it with us. Those who were, they are already with you. A man who sat in government, who took measures in 1994 and 1993, when you mentioned that inflation, asked a lot of questions in our party, but he was overstretched quickly and now he dresses with you. You know that, you know who's sitting in the government, who's with you. When it comes to illegal business, is it possible to say at point 3 - the person who brought out the advance to pay for some goods and didn't pay back the money, didn't import the goods, he would tax himself. It's a crime, he's got to go to jail. Is it possible to say today - he's going to be taxed by the one who made the money to pay, and he didn't bring in the goods and pay back the money. You can't find that point here about illegal acquired wealth. That's pure crime. That's the one that needs legal answers. It's illegal, Article 9, if it's possible for someone to think about saying, "He who has made himself rich by a number of basics, in Article 3 of point 1 through 10, that a deal will be made with him." Isn't that a new source of corruption and who's the tax authority that's gonna come and say, hey, you know what, you've accomplished so much and so much at three or four basics, let's make a deal, you'll pay that. What do you think it works like that? Worse, and I think that amendment has even been accepted, but it all depends on this assembly whether it will be accepted, where it says - who exactly releases 35%. Who'd have thought to free him 35 percent? It's out of your mind and that's what's unacceptable in this law. How do you vote for this law? We have made many amendments, and if these amendments are accepted by the Socialists and the opposition, we will certainly vote in favour of the law, but to accept the amendment, not how it occurred to someone just to hit the previous officials and the previous regime with a political, Harangus. It's an article. 25. that it simply does not apply the Law on Liabilities and Tax Laws. So, this law directly violates and derogates federal law, and in the end I am not a man against the taxation of those who have illegally acquired in the past, but there must be a legal basis. We're not going to knowingly pass a law that violates federal law here, are we? When it comes to points 12 and 13 I think it's a typical example of selectivity and I'd even say discrimination against political insatiables. Please tell me that the officials who bought the apartment that didn't belong to them and who was bigger than it belonged to them, that they actually earned extra income and that they should pay taxes. I'm not even against it, but where are those who are in various ways, when it comes to housing problems and housing, are they knowingly violating it? Where are the ones who switched 140 square feet for a garage and got over 100,000 marks? Where those who had two, three social flats, and were not officials of the previous party, who had two publishing and enormous wealth acquired a rent of 200-300 marks per month.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9242	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9243	I'm sorry, Mr. President, just to finish a few sentences. Where have all the agencies been since we liberalized the real estate trade that got rich on commissions? So there's nothing in the law again, and since it's already been 20 seconds -- I think it's simple, you'll agree, however real it is, that this is a primitive explanation. Is it the minister to accept sentences that are not similar to any parliament in the country that was released yesterday, to bring everything down to the previous president? The finance minister comes from a country that has a high parliamentary democracy, that really is a shameful and primitive explanation, to catch up and tie up all these failures, to the president of the Republic. The parliaments of the developed countries would be ashamed of this, and I didn't mean to say one sentence, and when I read the law, it didn't occur to me, but here the individuals who discussed it said well. I think this law is foreplay of the transformation law, because companies that can't pay, which have received from primary emissions to buy oil, and you know how it has to be imported, through Macedonia and various gymnastics ways, so that it can be given at very well-censored prices to farmers to sow. No extra income got Jugopetrol, no extra income got those that came from the primary...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9244	Mr. Bajic, you didn't have to remember things when you were out of time. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9245	So they didn't get you extra income, and that's a sign that they should, because they can't pay taxes, just grab property from the state, so they can sell it if they want to. I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9246	The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, followed by MP Dragan Vuksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the period to which the one-time taxation law will apply since January 1989 almost corresponds to the dates in which we are promised a bright future and Swedish standard, a national income of $10,000 per capita. When we draw the line today, we can say that we have not yet reached one dollar per 10,000 inhabitants, but unfortunately with one dollar per capitage per day we belong to the order of the countries in the world at the lower border of poverty. If we compare ourselves to countries similar to our territory and population, we say that national income in Hungary is $10,000 per capita, in Portugal $15,000, in Austria, $30,000, and with us 1,100 together with Albania. As a result of retrograde policy, we have found a national abandoned, economically ruined, politically degraded and culturally rejuvenated state in which the middle layer is completely destroyed, while a group of several percent of the extremely wealthy and over 90% of the poor, almost half of them are on the lower poverty line. These few percentages of the rich greatly exceeded that Swedish standard from the beginning of this story and can potentially be compared to the sultan of Bruney. We lived in a country where any loss in the fight for national rights was easily forgotten if he subtitled on personal canvas. The mover of national Serbian territory was most easily compensated for by personal housing expansion. The reduction of state foreign exchange reserves was easier to overcome by increasing its own foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts. The abolition of consumer credits was easier for citizens if some privileged ones had access to primary emissions for their own account. And so in the order of the loan, jezda, dafina, inflation, old-age foreign savings, cigarette smuggling, oil, alcohol, and the greater national and state disaster, the greater the personal wealth and prestige of this recent society. Accession, not work, tumbling, not knowledge, power, and not reason have become the guides of society in the sun. When, fortunately, all citizens have come to an end with such a system of values, on the proposal of a single tax on extra income and extra property acquired by the use of special benefits we hear these days, even today from a pay phone, that it is legal savagery and that it represents the opening of Pandora's box of legal uncertainty. What I can tell you as a man whose right is not a profession is that I hope that there will never be legal certainty in this country again for the abuse of rights in order to rob, no matter what legal landscapes he was wrapped up in. This law is a punishment for those who have sinned against the greater justice of God, but at the same time a reminder to those who are now in power to say that justice is slow, but attainable, more than accurate. If there was no law anywhere in the world, as some claim, although there is evidence to the contrary, then I can say that there was probably never a robbery anywhere like a legalized system. What would be the morale of a new society that would be created to legalise the brutal initial accumulation of capital that individuals achieved at the time of the greatest national tragedy. Unfortunately, this law and taxation cannot undo the results of those who have taken the lives of Serbia for the past 10 years. To no one, not a single citizen of Serbia, unfortunately, we cannot bring back 10 years of life lost, not built houses, unpurchased cars, unrealized winters, summers, etc. Let me be personal and tell you the situation of the robbery of that middle layer, to which I belonged. As a journalist, I had a salary of 1,100 German marks in 1990. If I'd stayed on the same level, I'd have received at least 120,000 marks in the last 10 years. I haven't even received 20,000, and I've personally been robbed by 100,000 marks. Let each citizen calculate what salary he had in 1990 and multiply it, let him calculate how much he's received in the last 10 years. What we can and must, at least in part, return, is what was directly robbed by this people. It is true that illegal wealth in most cases was made formally in accordance with the laws of the time, but it speaks all about the laws, and of those who wrote them, and of the state in which we lived. This is where the SPS MPs sit with us. According to me, it is a large number of honest and honest people, but I ask them where are the SPS MPs from the previous assembly, headed by the former president of the Serbian Parliament? They used the SPS for their personal wealth and for the destruction of this people. Don't worry about those who say this law will be difficult to enforce. If it was an enforceable robbery of that kind, it would be the law for all citizens alike. If some of them had ever worked fair with me today, they wouldn't have passed this law. He'd be unnecessary, but he's not and unfortunately he's necessary. No, gentlemen, this law has not executed savagery of law, but has already committed savagery against the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. By monopolies and abuse of rights, justice has been thrown under the feet and turning right into a surrogate, wrongly, it has been implemented by unsightly methods, unscrupulous wealth of individuals. That's why the one-time tax law is necessary. This is not about, ladies and gentlemen, political revenge, as some claim. To form the state of Serbia on a healthy basis, these foundations must rely on as much as on law, as on justice. Any team of masters to continue the construction of Serbia's state will someday be built on sound foundations, slower, faster, more successful or less successful, better quality or less quality, but the state of Serbia will be built on sound foundations. It is true that in the previous period economic movements have been influenced by sanctions, wars and a general political situation, that we do not enter into the reasons that led to this. I ask the opponents of this law, why didn't all of these citizens suffer equally? It's not the people's fault for a little bit, it's the wrong thing to do. And no one can beat you but me. She's turned into a steamer. No one can rob you, except me and my loved ones. As we overnecessate discontinuity with the right, as legalization of the robbery of the people, we also need to break up with the morale that came out of it. [[Applause]] This law does not deal with criminal responsibility, but it certainly deals with moral responsibility, sanctioning it materially, and imposing on those whose concept of morality in the past decade has been a terra incognito, unknown country. Until the shift of power, a legal action has been carried out, which is formally legal but deeply immorally enriched by individuals at the expense of the vast majority of Serbian citizens. The change of government and the adoption of this law, I stress, impose sanctions, primarily materially on those who have misused both power and existing legislation and at the same time warn those who are now in power. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the mafia, starting with Italian and beyond, had a code of honor and honesty. They robbed the rich, and Serbia's most brutally robbed middle class and poor. Therefore, as a member of the Democratic Party and DOS, I consider it necessary to adopt the law on one-off income tax and extra property, acquired by taking advantage of special benefits. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9248	The word has a People's MP Dragan Vuksic, and the next one registered for the discussion is MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9249	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we have before us a law on one-time income tax and extra property acquired by the use of special benefits. I advocate every constructive effort and proposal to improve the text of this law, to make the law, when adopted, more effective and indeed achieve the purpose for which we will adopt it. I'm going to talk about that other aspect, and that's whether it's necessary to pass this law. I'll be very specific. I will talk about abuses in the area of housing and I will talk about abuses in the area in the Yugoslav Army, more specifically at the General Staff of the VJ and the Ministry of Defence. Gentlemen, I will talk about one rule, about one government, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, about one commission, and that is the Commission on Housing Affairs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I will also mention its president, who is here, by the way, also a National MP. I will speak further, as one of the subjects or main actors of my presentation, of a man who thus gained profits and made a fortune, which should be sanctioned under the Single Tax Act in the future. I'll talk about facts, I'll point to facts, and I'll keep my comments to a minimum. I'm talking about the Regulation, the resolution of housing issues at the Federal Defence Ministry and the Yugoslav Army, adopted in August 2000. Why did he bring this rulebook? Because it was of particular interest to the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, who in an adequate way wanted to provide housing for those in the Yugoslav Army who gained special credit in the defence service of the regime, so that they could become even closer to the regime. What's the matter with that rulebook? The rule is controversial and unacceptable in general, and I only point to four things. First, the regulations leave out a provision under which only those who do not have an apartment or a house are entitled to an apartment, or otherwise solved the housing issue. That's how it was until then. This has increased the number of those who have not solved the housing issue, and those who are the most vulnerable have further strayed from the solution. I don't know if there's such a provision in some other institution in this country. Secondly, in Article 20, under the 5th individual categories, a four-bedroom apartment and a larger, four-bedroom apartment and a larger and five-person apartment are assigned. Gentlemen, if such a provision exists somewhere, in some other rulebook or similar matter, where it is practically not known who or any apartment will be assigned, where there are no limits. With the reason that it cannot be found, for example a five - fit apartment, and it can be assigned larger. The man is awarded a villa and he is well pleased, he can sleep peacefully because he has gained practically immeasurable gain. Thirdly, the Urban and Civil Works Sector of the Federal Ministry of Defence has regulated that the living room is not accounted for in the number of rooms, which determines the structure and size of the apartment. Gentlemen, there is such a thing in Switzerland, perhaps in Sweden, as far as I know, but here in the Balkans -- no. You know that there are some 17,500 unsolved housing problems in the army, that there are several thousand who have no accommodation or are located on the edge of a human minimum and below every human dignity. That exactly what I'm saying confirms the following is a very clear fact. Instead of publicising this rule, to make it public, to draw attention to people to study the rules well, to find and to look at their rights, to be able to exercise them, to engage and provide assistance and legal authorities in the military of Yugoslavia, I read with the rule: "This number of official military lists is printed in a limited number of copies, was delivered only to units and institutions of the Federal Defence Ministry and the Yugoslav Army. Given the importance of the regulations (and what is important you can conclude) published in this list, its text should be handled in this way. First, it's forbidden to multiply it. Secondly, it can only be used by officials and other interested persons employed by the Federal Defence Ministry and the Yugoslav military. Third, it can only be used in official rooms. And fourth, it must not be made available to unauthorized persons." Secondly, what I want to talk about are some decisions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its housing committee. One man, using the said rule, acquired unlimited, virtually immeasurable profits. It is practically the first soldier of the Yugoslav Army, General Pavkovic, Louis JIV or General Sun. General Pavkovic, listen well, the first apartment in Belgrade was given in 1991, on the street of Peđa Milosavljevic, three-person. After getting divorced with another husband, that apartment was divided so that it belonged to 3/5 and 2/5 of the apartment. After making a new third marriage and promotion in the rank of general in 1997, he received an apartment on Skenderbeg Street No. 45-45 of 78 square meters, and then with minimum surcharge, a 95.3 square-square apartment at the same address. Then he got an apartment on Moller Street No. 11, 164 square meters, with the obligation to return the apartment to Skenderbeg. That apartment was given to the wife by the appointed one. Then, according to the rule I was talking about, Federal Defence Minister Dragoljub Ojdanic assigned General Pavkovic an object in 14 Jevrem Grujic Street, an unknown size, which is run as a six-person apartment, for which a colonel (I have his name but will not announce it) paid a million and ninety-nine hundred thousand breast marks. The owner, when he saw who he was selling the house to, he was startled and he was in a dilemma about selling it. He said - I wouldn't sell it to you, General, because you could not get those funds in a fair way. How did you get those funds, I don't know. The document on the award of the alleged apartment on Jevrem Grajic Street has been encrypted as a state secret. Furthermore, on Wednesday's 10th Street, there is an apartment of 504 square meters, purchased by Nenad Djordjevic, I believe everyone is well aware of this case. For this apartment of 504 m2, the government of the Republic of Serbia is via Dipos, which is the institution for the business of diplomatic housing, paid the Ministry of Finance the amount of 900 thousand German marks and another 600,000 marks to the private person. Ladies and gentlemen, the facts of what General Pavkovic is entitled to, and what he has not gained and what he has gained, will have to determine the authority. Ladies and gentlemen, I think these facts speak for themselves enough. But it's not the end, you can remember that Slobodan Milosevic, a false commander, a man whom Pavkovic declared chief commander, whom he gave saber, a gun with character and signature, whom he proposed to be a folk hero, parallel to the apartments I mentioned, himself and personally solved the problem of his first soldier. Thus, by the resolution of the residential commission of the Republic Government, signed here by Professor Branislav Ivkovic, who was assigned to the house in Užička 28. The work of the house was planned for 8 million marks to be spent on documents. Since Milosevic Slobodan "wanted a lot of things" and the election class got in the way," then it came to spend "the four million marks" and for another million marks was ordered, for the famous general, furniture from Italy - Colombo and Ronkoroni. That furniture is waiting for someone to take over. Gentlemen, you can read more about this in Sunday Telegraph since February 28, 2001. That facility was supposed to have only one element, covered pool of 629 m2. Gentlemen, is there a dilemma after this that this law should be passed and that it will be necessary for the commissions to work, to determine who won the profit, and not only that, but who was playing with the regulations and our lives, who was inhabiting the property in this country, how and why? I think Mr. Ivkovic could say something about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9250	Right on the line, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9251	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, you have once again shown that you have double arches. Mr Vuksic, speaking of the law on taxation of extra income, used this pay phone for your internal DOS calculations about who supports General Pavkovic, who is troubled by General Pavkovic. Obviously, Mr. Vuksic is on that team of people who would like to remove General Pavkovic from his whereabouts. Does he have personal motives here? You know what it's like in the army, who's moving faster, who's making slower progress. In any case, in this situation it is clear to each of us who know that we think more seriously, that Mr Vuksic's performance was used to deal with General Pavkovic. To whom and where MP Vuksic belongs, it is easy to conclude. However, the fact is, Mrs Micic, that we are absolutely right to ask for your shift, because you have never intervened to warn MP Vuksic on the subject of the agenda. He spent ten minutes on it. As for the apartments, I repeat here the SPS's position, which absolutely supports the idea of taxing extra profits. We absolutely support this idea, because we believe that the international community is conscious, introducing an embargo, interrupting financial flows, banning imports and exports by legal means, essentially, as one of the first objectives, has declared the criminalisation of society. It is the honourable minister, Mr Djelic, who forgets in every performance to point out. We mention it because it's true. We support it. However, when it comes to housing, in this law that is proposed, we have only taxation of extra profits or extra income, as the legislator says in the logic of socialist self-management, only in institutional flows. But we forget that 2/3 was in the gray economy. When we talk about apartments - why must he pay extra profits to someone who has worked fair and honest in his company, and according to his company's rules, he's got an apartment. Now somebody's gonna appreciate bigger squares. And he doesn't have to pay for the guy who smuggled cigarettes, coffee, who didn't pay taxes and contributions, made a 1000-square villa, tennis courts. You don't tax these people, because these people funded you DOS. That's the problem. So you have a double-arshin policy. As for General Pavkovic, the government of the Republic of Serbia with its special commission and representatives of the Yugoslav Army and the Department of People's Defence, in 1997, concluded an agreement on Nemina 9. (President: Time. ) Namely, the Government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to help the Yugoslav Army, because no one wanted to buy Germany's 9, and we had a problem setting up the Ministry of Justice, the Constitutional Court (which you cannot form, because all your laws are unconstitutional), the Supreme Court of Serbia, and we decided to buy a building in Germany 9 and put a complete justice system of Serbia at the level of the Republic, in return to build 800 apartments. As part of the agreement, this agreement came, and that is correct, the apartment was assigned. About the furniture of the apartment, ask those who had the equipment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9252	Mr. Ivkovic, I have never used this pay phone to polish or protect any political interests, but in order to prove that I led the sessions objectively, impartially and securely, it tells the fact that I made two remarks to Mr. Vuksic at an earlier meeting, although the DOS MP did. This time I thought he was sticking to the agenda theme, and for that reason I let him go so he could freely expose himself. The word is Mr. Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9253	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, the esteemed presidency, members of the government, must speak of this legislative proposal as a man of technical education, precisely because of the humiliation I experienced today, as a man. Humiliation, which I had to look at first nine, after a few more powerful men from security, breaking the messenger's bench, bending, breaking or tearing off the muscles, the hands of certain MPs... (President: Please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... as well as the humiliations I experienced from one, now definitely call the ladies, the once prominent actress, because of the words she referred to me and the entire SPS parliamentary group, after the outbreak of a caroused incident by Vice-President Natasa Micic. (President: Mr. Cvetkovic, I'm sorry, I warned you to return to the topic. ) I am saying this because this legislative proposal has come across the unprecedented interest of the poor, harassed and honest south of Serbia and my Jablanic district, because during the break I have had more than 30 calls, which large companies from my area, which ordinary citizens who think and believe that this proposal will eliminate many injustices, but also with disgust speak of today's events. I am aware that, taking the critical word of this law, I can take after all the bile he has brought on us socialists, in the opening statement, Minister Djelic, of him young and strong to be physically attacked, yet I must say my views. All true socialists support the need for extra income tax and extra property laws to be brought in, but the title should delete one word, which is - one-time. This law should be, according to us, socialists, permanent nature and permanent. According to the Socialists, it should be a law that will make all those who have exploited and acquired an abnormal wealth at the time of the sanctions, and today they catch up with it, avoiding tax payments, contributions, excise taxes, etc., additional taxation. When, dear colleagues, did the black market take place? It came about when sanctions were imposed on this Serb people, when Yugoslavia fell apart, which is in 1992. Since then, 70-80% of imports and exports have been going through gray flows, and therefore, if it is really the beginning of the period for this one-time taxation, it should be safe in 1992, not January 1989. The date that Minister Djelic introduced into the law is a pure policy which, in addition to the agenda points that will be at the end of this session, period. 9th and 10th, in order for Vlasi not to understand, so the motion for a resolution to the National Assembly on the fight against corruption and recommendations to the Assembly on the rules of conduct of public officials should give a clear and transparent manner of sentence to previous authorities, socialists, and to our party president Slobodan Milosevic, and I repeat, through three different visions. Through today's law, through a resolution and a recommendation needed by the Assembly to adopt at the end of this session. That this is so, it is clear, dear colleagues, from the reasons behind this legislative proposal, as explaining the reasons for the law being passed, Minister Djelic, on the side and on the side, or on the side of 47 lines of this argument in 43 lines, said that this law was passed because of the rule of the Socialists and Slobodan Milosevic, and only two and a half rows refer to the market economy. In the blindness of deposing the elected, appointed and appointed officials of political parties, I would say -- read the Socialists, this law will certainly not apply to officials in Nis, or Belgrade, although the Socialists have long been in power there. What I cannot praise this legal proposal is the fact that the legislators have incorrectly defined both the basic concepts of extra income and income, as well as the extra profit. How, honourable fellow Members, this legislative proposal sanctions only one in ten types of extra income, institutional income, and it is in a direct function of the measure of economic policy of the Government, I must especially stress that the institutional extra income at the time of sanctions was precisely in an orderly manner correcting the unequal positions of certain economic branches. Those who in those crazy times had to carry the most severe sanctions across the border in bags with thousands of German marks or dollars, those from small companies, where I worked, hundreds of thousands in medium-sized enterprises, or millions in giants, know, respected colleagues, what were the problems of bringing that money out in suitcases into regular flows. And now fellow MPs, if some companies from Leskovec, say the Nevena Chemical Industry, as the largest dental paste producer in the Balkans, "Health" or NIS Southpetrol at government and NBJ's decisions were given foreign exchange rates at lower rates, sometimes three and four times from the market, and they imported raw oil and white derivatives, diesel and gasoline or aircraft and sold on the domestic market at strictly defined prices, such as today by the government, and thus allowed the sick to be delivered to doctors, that the military and its weapons were filled and put into operation. If a member of this law is strictly applied, that's the point. From one to ten, these companies will come under a terrible law strike. If, on the other hand, the position of Article 2 of the 8th tax base for foreign exchanges purchased by the NBJ and the other members of the law are applied, and in particular Article 21, which regulates the payment of extra income by the tax authority of the Republic, then these companies can be placed in a situation that, if they are not able to pay taxes in cash, and not certain, they are executed by selling to the Republic of the corresponding share in capital. I wonder, and I think someone else has to wonder, isn't this legislation the government's goal of, say, the wooded pharmaceutical giant that produces 23% of the necessary medicines in Yugoslavia, which is always the largest share of the supplies for the supply of the necessary raw materials for the drugs, regardless of the higher black course, now that the government is calculating all this, it has to come to a situation that, on this unreal basis, it has to give way to Article 21 of the large part of the "Health" property of the state. Of course, respected fellow MPs, nor did "Health" have extra income, because as much as there was until yesterday, so does the minister know, prices for medicines below 10% domicillical prices, i.e. prices for medicines that did not cover even part of the packaging in certain forms, let alone raw materials and invested work. She didn't have extra income or "Neven," and especially not "Yugopetrol," which is easy to determine. I have said enough things that this law should go to work, that all possible variations are seen in the new version, because, practically, Article 21 means nationalisation in the form of a mandatory cell. This law should not be adopted because its application will be almost impossible. It is not clear to me that the legislator believes that he will apply this part of the law when it comes to the parts of Article 3. 12, 13 and 14. Do you think, dear colleagues, that in most buildings or apartments there will be no accidental fires due to "incorrect installations", at one convenient moment. He knows that he can't apply this, but right now he needs a political point, and he needs it today. I really think that everyone in this room today, from us MPs and technical staff, knows a few people, at least one in his environment, who is not from the establishment of the former government, and has an enormous wealth, and this law does not touch him. They're people who've been keeping their taxes off the market, and they've achieved what they've accomplished. The farthest wealthy people in Leskovac, respected colleagues, were not in power, but were not with the authorities, and there is absolutely no one-off taxation in this law. That fact speaks unequivocally of the fact that this is political law. Only for naive colleagues and colleagues, MPs, is this legislative proposal in front of the Privatisation Act. In the end, the other day, Mr Djindjic told the speaker and this parliament that more than 30% of cigarettes are being imported into this country without excise duty and that it will stop only when the Kragujeva factory of tobacco works. It's a stenogram to see. Well, why, Mr. Minister, this law applies until tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, when you adopt it, when you all know in advance that by the end of the year, not because of Milosevic and the Socialists, but because of the government and Kostunica, that I will make that right comparison, because he has replaced Milosevic, there will be no excise payments, so there will be conditions for extra income from Article 3. Four and five. To remind - imports and distribution of excise goods fall into particular and special benefits, which will not be taxed. When the Kragujevac tobacco factory works, will we reintroduce, at the end of the year, another deck specialis for the Kragujevac tobacco factory.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9254	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, the idea of this law can certainly come up with the support of everyone, but, as it's written, it's hard. We had an opening argument from Mr. Djelic, who convinced us of our lives for the 12-13 years. It's okay to be persuaded by those who shared it with us, because if he had shared it with us, in that speech he would have remembered sanctions, and he would have remembered that when he proposed the budget, he was not advocating Romanian, because we know, as far as Romanians are concerned, that we are still "far from the sun" and that we are not going to Romania to dig corn, but they are coming to us in Vojvodina. If the information has been provided that up to the five-October revolution 30% of the population lived below the poverty line, which is not how much this data is today. It must be bigger, given that there are also a dozen ministers, and the Prime Minister himself said how little the economy is doing, and when the economy is doing little, it can hardly be good and that someone can then be rich. Only the number of poor could increase. You must attribute these poor to yourself, not to us. This law will not be a law, but will be a clean-up of political inexperiences. You did it a decade ago, or how many days ago, when you replaced Mr. Vuk Obradovic, who is the president of that commission, because you made a mistake at the beginning -- you gave the soldier some work, and he took things seriously, so he picked up more of yours, than ours in that quest, so after he picked up your thieves, he "gets by the fingers" and was removed from the government. So, more of yours picked it up, and otherwise, if he'd just picked up ours, it'd be fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9256	Mr. Guduric, can you make an effort and talk about the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9257	It's all about the subject, I'm talking about this law and who it's about to refer to. At 3rd point, where transactions are referred to, from which the subject of taxation arises, all those social firms that were mentioned for the purpose of buying foreign exchanges in the official course, and not in the market, all those who received certain loans are placed in that basket. It's just, you have to remember that after this law goes to the next point -- the Privatization Act, where you also say that those companies that are bad at the moment, and that would be good to sell, because they're bad, I should say, to get an injection and to recover, so they can be privatized. Wasn't this the same injection? I do not advocate the release of those who are personally (not understood), there is a way to do so. But to be guilty of companies, which the state has helped to keep working and workers to receive salaries -- one law says it's a sin, and the next, which we will adopt after this, when it comes to order, I don't know how many days it will last, it will be re-proved, that it can. So, in one government, what's done can't, and under the other, it'll be able to do the same thing, and under the other, it won't be a sin. Well, understand those arches of yours! Also, in Article 3(5), it is said "importation and export of products... ", the business director of DS, as you already call it, and the team of Mr. Canka, Mr. Miodrag Kostic - falls greatly under the influence of this law all that he has, mainly belongs to quotas and contingent, and he is not an SPS, he is some other option. Think about it and look at the hall and the house in Petrovaradin, so I don't count Florida and some other stuff. You can see that with him, since he's yours, so you'll see better what he's got. Also, Article 9. - There's something you've introduced that's probably nowhere to be found, that tax is an agreed category, we sit down and we deal with as much as it comes to. And what can't happen to the state, to whom does it come? That's what Article 9 says. I'm talking about the law in principle. When we get to the amendment, about that later. Whether we move on them or not, that's what we'll see. But as it's written, it gives someone a chance to make a deal with someone, and to... (incomprehensible) illegally acquired wealth, that's why someone's worth it, if he's ours, and if he's someone else's, then he's not. So that's what Article 9 says. And you can do whatever you want, but that's tax, and the truth is, this law says that kind of thing. There's still nonsense in this law, because we can't baptize it differently, and that's Article 13. So, all those citizens who have always paid their obligations fairly, can't get any benefits and don't apply to them to get 35 percent of the benefits, which they regularly pay to the state of obligations, and those who have abused the tax because they haven't paid them, well, if they're nice and honest, we'll forgive 35 percent. Probably a member again, because in picking up Mr. Vuk Obradovic, you'll find more of yours than other people's, so you have to give them some relief. If it is said in Article 24 - one-time tax is forced to be charged before all other claims against the taxpayer... etc. and then it is said in one previous Article 20 in point 2. - the person from this member has the right to, within eight days, from the day of delivery of the first-degree solution... etc. And another article says there's even less interest. So who makes who crazy with this law? One thing that's more important is that the state has to charge and charge first of all, and then another option can go to three wars, and in some third option, whoever goes to war can go cheaper, because they're going to pay less interest. Well, that law is worse than confusion, so it can be said that it's just confusing, that would be a very good word, but that law is worse than disaster. It is a shame that a law like this follows an honest idea, which should have put all those into order (because nobody says it's a crime, but only to get them in line) that didn't pay their dues, when they were supposed to pay them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9258	The word is made by MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9259	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, obviously we touched the hornet's nest, because a few months ago, when I spoke to the MPs from the opposition, when this law was mentioned, that they would come, they all gave him a hearty support. They said we'd vote for him. This time we see it's not exactly like that. They criticize him and say it's not a good law. I won't talk about this law much, because all the predecessors of DOS, and the representative of the government, have said everything that needs to be said about this law. That's quite enough for the Democratic Party to vote for this law. However, the main reason why this law should be voted and passed is because only authority and superficiality are mentioned. It's a moral law. A moral benefit, which will come out of the adoption of this law and which will only be felt in the future. Let me make this clear - for 10 years, and more than 10 years, our children, our youth and the future, have watched their parents, doctors, engineers, workers, how, hard working, from their honest work, they can't support their family and barely feed the same. At the same time, the thugs who were in power, and around the government, gained enormous wealth, created a new style of life with jeeps, surrounded by beauties, full of money, living in exclusive places, and they simply gained insight that it was not worth doing as their parents do, but should do as those who used to do and who would hit this extra profit bill. I think after this law is passed, our children will see that it's not worth it, that punishment comes eventually. Others who will learn moral lessons from this are those who have used themselves, and they will realize that this is not how it should be done and, of course, it will never work again. The third person to learn moral lessons from all this is us DOS MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all the people who are in power now, to see that whenever someone can bring this law again and that as the predecessors did, they cannot do it. I'm telling you, there's no need to talk about this law anymore. This moral part that is yet to come as a result of the law's adoption will be the greatest benefit for Serbia, and the most natural that will be derived from this law. I would take the opportunity, and I will ask the president to refer to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to the request for the resignation of Natasha Micic, vice-president of parliament. Gentlemen, we are chosen by the people and chosen by our own parties and if it were luck, and if we were serious people, we wouldn't need the Rules of Procedure, nor would the chairman have to listen to what we say, but simply, we ourselves would have a code of honor and watch what we say about our colleagues, about other people. Since that is not the case, I must remind the gentleman of the Socialist Party who filed this request that the time has passed when the rights were tried and the amnesties are guilty. Serbia is...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9260	I'm asking you in the same way to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9261	Of course, I'll talk about it another time. I had to look back on it, I said I'd use this minute. So, I think it's very bad on your part.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9262	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9263	Mr. Chairman, some of the elements have been approached by speakers and you'll have to pay a little more attention to creating conditions for our speeches. Chairman, those who normally interfere with speakers are closer to the speakers, so you know, pay a little more attention. Now, in a room with only 50 or 60 MPs, it's easier to see. I answered the line for two reasons. First of all, I understand the suggestion of the previous MP to submit our request for the resolution of the Vice-President of the Natasa Micic Assembly and I must say, unfortunately, it has not passed, but the time has come for a difficult forced administration that is above Serbia's judicial system, which, when possible, will be spoken of much more. We used our right to say, I agree with you, each of us here when he talks about this pay phone or when he acts like he's talking about himself, about his parents, about his education. Especially the problem when ladies of the People's Parliaments act inappropriately, because each of us feels very difficult. The chairman, however, has this ungrateful role to assess, and she is ungrateful because her estimates can be ruled in one way by the MPs and by other means by opposition MPs. The problem of Vice-President Natasa Micic is that there were double arches and double standards and how present, and all the excesses that were in this room, were when she chaired. The second reason I answered the line on your discussion is the moral story. Moral and how to talk, but it is not moral not to cover two-thirds of the extra profits in the proposed text of the law. It is not moral to pursue someone who, working honestly in his company, acquired the right to receive a social apartment by law, by law to buy it, and it is not moral that you, by your text law, did not pursue someone who smuggled cigarettes, who smuggled what, who was out of this country and built a 1,000-square house, built tennis courts, built swimming pools, and by your law, which Minister Djelic proposed, did not answer. There's a story about double morale. One Jugopetrol, for example, that bought six dinar marks, but you're not saying that he had to sell for 80 pfenig diesel because we kept the standard of citizens, we kept social peace at a time when the brand and 80 pfenig in Europe was gasoline. It is not moral for you to ask that Simpo return the money, and this same Simpo today shows that he has done a national important thing, developed small and medium-sized enterprises in southern Serbia, kept workers, kept women in the country, developed export production. Running the state is a very complicated thing, and it needs a lot of knowledge, which is obviously missing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9264	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Garčević, and after him, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9265	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Finance, I am very pleased that you are here and that I will be able to direct a few questions, and I hope to receive direct answers. I've been listening here for a long time to preach about morality and immorality. I propose that the Assembly adopt that all who are in office, which means the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, show their property, representatives of the government, show their property that will be available to citizens of Serbia, all the directors of public enterprises, all the presidents of the municipalities' congregations to show their property on the day of taking office. When we show it, why are we running away from it, no running away from it, but show, comrades dear, property, to see where the wealth is here in the congregation, then we'll see. Some don't complain, there are papers here. A moral man will be in opposition, and in power, depends on the character of a man. It's said that we want to make it right morally. I agree, anyone who has damaged social property in terms of his personal benefit, that he has to answer both criminally and morally, and in any case, I do not agree that the companies that worked and took, that it becomes state capital that will be sold out according to the will of individuals. In particular, I'll take examples from my territory-- the Sava Shipyard was getting loans from the primary show to survive. Please, it's starting to work, and what does that mean? That the gentleman from Germany will come to buy him out for cheap money, I won't talk about who it's about. Or, to take the Mitros Meat Factory that exported and gave foreign exchanges by six marks, whether we're going to return the difference to that factory and similar factories, because the brands weren't state-owned, they were businesses that exported it. And the state can't take privileges for itself. That's fair. Next, it's not fair that the law is valid until then or until then, and why? I'd like to be given an answer either at this session, or next, who's given the right to import artificial fertilizer, and does it happen to be an importer, not Marian, but a firm called "Brazda"? If there's a firm called "Brazda," I'll give Mr. Finance Minister one piece of paper, and by then I won't. I want to see if it's true, whether "Brazda" imported the contingent and what it means, because, according to information, artificial fertilizer could have been made cheaper in our country, and it was imported by direct decisions and given to certain contingents, and we accuse those who imported contingents. Who says it wasn't committed and now it's a robbery? I'm sure it is. Furthermore, some decisions suggest that individual local officials abuse humanitarian aid. I want to believe in the following, to show how much humanitarian aid has come to this country, where she's gone...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9266	Mr Garcevic, these are not parliamentary questions. Please talk about the subject, or the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9267	Did she leave on purpose, because that's also part of the abuse. What does that mean? If we want to be fair and fair, then it must apply to everything equally, which means that we make a good record of what we have and that the MPs start to show, because we too can abuse our positions. Surely those who have power far more than those who do not. Ministers -- let's not talk, ministerial assistants -- the same. Well, to warn it and to prevent it all, to show, comrades dear, our property today, and then we're going to examine that property whether it came from legal flows or there was a black market, as was the economy that went beyond the system. All companies should, unless the executives took the money for themselves, misusing the position, excluded from this, because they were working in the interests of the state, and if there was an abuse, it is known what to do with the abuse of the manager's position. On the other hand, I would resent the Minister of Finance if he were a great expert, which I won't doubt, I don't think the great people in the economic profession are going to make speeches of a political nature, but are dealing with the economy and those that will bring good to this country. That is why I propose that amendments to the SPS members who are in favour of creating equality, and I say now that we want that when we start from Sremska Mitrovica to Belgrade, all the buildings that have been built are taxed, because that way you will only convince the citizens that you have done it fairly and morally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9268	The word has a folk MP Toma Busetic, followed by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9269	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, SPS and SPS MPs have nothing against a one-time tax on extra profits and extra assets acquired by taking advantage of special benefits. We don't mind, on the contrary, supporting a one-time tax for all individuals and groups who used primary money emissions, for all those who bought foreign exchanges in the official NBJ course, in a situation where the price of these foreign exchanges was significantly higher on the market. We also support all that is related to the import and distribution of excise products without payment of customs duties, as well as to the use, or imports and exports of products which were on the contingents and quotas regime. Of course, here first and foremost, when it comes to the use of primary emissions and the purchase of foreign exchanges, everything that is related to social enterprises and state organisations. When we talk about social enterprises, we certainly need to see how these funds have been spent. In most cases, the funds were spent to start production or were spent for naked survival and maintenance of production. When we talk about state organisations, about state bodies, the funds were mainly used by companies, i.e. institutions such as EPS, NIS, and we know for what reasons these funds were given in this way and that they had a lot of justification in their spending. Simply, the existing laws and institutions of the system could solve all of this and it was not necessary to make one such bill. Proposers talk about the law being fair and we are aware that both justice and justice, that these categories are very subjective, and that only objective categories are legality and constitutionality. The pre-law itself has other shortcomings starting with the article. 9. which suggests that in situations where a tax debtor has obtained income and acquired property under several different conditions laid down in Article 3 that, in those conditions, the Director of the Republic of the Public Revenue Administration is entitled to conclude an agreement with the taxpayer on the level of the established tax base. Of course, it is absolutely unnecessary to give too much authority to the Director of the Republic Administration of Income and, on the other hand, this member himself, if maintained, would allow for various manipulations, reduction of obligations, determination of various similarities, etc. In Article 13, which is equally unacceptable to us, it is said that individual taxpayers who, in time or credible, present their tax obligations will have 35 percent reliefs, which is also unacceptable, as it is assumed that everyone reports on time and how they need their tax obligations. Article 25 is unacceptable on the legal side because it contains a provision on the limitations of the law on bonds and tax laws, so that it does not apply when it comes to this law. In this way, the Republic law derivates federal law, and on the other hand, only the crime of genocide does not go out of date, and everything else can fall under this statute of limitations, even though we do not advocate it. For us, the Socialists and MPs of the SPS are particularly unacceptable reasons for the adoption of such a law, which says that the rule of Slobodan Milosevic has left the most difficult consequences for the development of Serbian society in the last decade of the 20th century, and then lists some things that are not really true, which is the disaster of the national economy, the expansion of the gray economy, general poverty, the criminalisation of the state without precedent. All of this can be killed in the right way, because it's not about the reasons why there's been a criminalization of society. It is true that there has been a criminalization of society, but criminalization is primarily conditioned by sanctions and the all-out embargo that was in our society. The sanctions, naturally, have criminalized every society, including our society. It's criminalized from the tiniest pores of street smuggling, illegal solving of everyday problems to major systems. The sanctions have in some way accelerated all other forms of crime such as murder, robbery, kidnapping, kidnapping, etc. But what is the situation today when it comes to the very criminalisation of society? And representatives of the new government reported a few weeks ago that society and state have been criminalised at the time of DOS's arrival. No day without a bank robbery, no mail, no days without a murder, no days without a kidnapping. When we talk about general poverty, it is said in this reasoning of the law that in the time of the SPS rule there has been the greatest poverty. It is clear that now the poverty of our society is even greater than in the time of the rule of President Milosevic and the SPS. Today, production has completely stopped, prices have increased: both electricity, and bread, and water. Simply, for one average salary, it is difficult to buy only milk and bread. There are no funds for a dozen other supplies. So this is not the fact that this time was the greatest poverty. I want to remind you of the fact that during the period 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997 the average salary in Serbia was between 200 and 300 marks, and you know how many marks were, and on the other hand the prices of the most basic products were significantly lower. It's all true and it's all a fact. Simply, who today is pleased with the new power? Workers, peasants are bitter, teachers and doctors are disappointed, pensioners dissatisfied, taxi drivers dissatisfied, and this is a picture of today's government. That's why I'm saying that this argument absolutely doesn't stand. What we need to know, which is the fact that you are in the scissors of those who produce and manage the crisis, those whose basic leverage of foreign policy is that, production and crisis management. The best example is our neighbour Macedonians, who have agreed to all NATO's blackmail pacts, and here we know where they came from. When it comes to the law itself, a few more sentences. The extraprofit tax cannot only be taken into account of the benefits achieved directly related to the institutions of the system. In any case, it must spread to all those who, not only over the past decade, but perhaps over the past 20 years, have acquired great wealth through smuggling, the grey economy, and these are those who have the chain of the most modern shops, modern car salons, furniture, a gas station chain. Will these people enter the frameworks of this law? I'm afraid that I will pay, first of all, state firms and social enterprises, politicians from the previous government, and that they with large small empires will remain out of reach of this law. That's why I think this SPS law can only be accepted under conditions if our many amendments that represent a certain amount of work can be accepted and can thus represent the whole. I believe, like the other SPS MPs, that the inappropriate behaviour of Vice President Natasa Micic, and also that the Assembly's security...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9270	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9271	There was one excessive use of force towards the SRS MPs, so your friends in the NATO Pact often say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9272	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic, and after that, MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a single tax law on extraprofits, extra income and extra property. This law has a moral attitude, if it covers the whole story we're talking about these days, and this way, it's deeply immoral, because it's trying to treat only one narrow space from which it wants to get some political point again. Our fellow citizens know well in their cities and settlements, they also know their neighbours who have smuggled and reselled oil, done various shops, and God knows the good work in the political public who has achieved it in various ways extraprofits and extra profit. Of course, most of these things aren't in the treatment of this law. This law deals with the institutional part and covers loans for goods production, made in the previous period under government programmes, then buying foreign exchanges according to the official course which was then in force, as well as various market transactions, from which profit was deemed to have been made and so on. Of course, always an interesting topic, it's flats. There's just no theme that's most important, and that's the gray economy. There is no topic from which you can really see who achieved extraprofit during the previous period. Who has broken down the legal criteria in various areas, let's not just talk about the smuggling of cigarettes, oil, coffee and so on. There are more, for God's sakes, good areas where extraprofits can be achieved. It is likely that this year, extra profit will be achieved by those who buy raspberries, then sold five marks on the foreign market, bought by brand, and sold by five and six. To remind me, Serbia is one of the states that dictates conditions for the price of raspberries on the European market. There's extra profit. Let's see who these exporters are, who they are, who they are, who they're gonna make four stamps per kilo of raspberry. It's a very simple thing. Of course, there are other areas, where, for example, particularly interesting things are, it's the area of the pharmaceutical industry. It's a very interesting area and we have a constant problem with medication. You say it's our fault, we say it's your fault, it doesn't matter who did it. Let's find those who make extra profit, let's be honest with each other, there's them on each side a little bit, let's find those who make extraprofits. There are extra-profits in the area of agriculture. Let's find those who have contingents for the import of fertilizer. You know, don't throw it away, if you want anything, Mr. Councilman of the Federal Minister, come here and talk. Of course, when we talk about the area of agriculture, it is known that importers in the area of fertilisers are private enterprises. Of course, that fertilizer is sold to our farmers, so we say they can't make domestic factories. They can make domestic factories and produce less than 100 stamps per tonne. It's an exact fact, we just don't want to deal with it. It's cheaper to give a contingent. Of course, that's what happened this year. Some again received contingents and re-imported fertilizers and there was a shooting there between the republican and federal government ministers on the subject. What characterizes this law, it's inconsistencies. I'd say Article 3 is absolutely unspeakable for a number of reasons. There is much missing in these 19 items that discuss conditions for the use of benefits for the achievement of extraprofits. There's a lot missing. There's a lot more to be found, a lot to add. We proposed something to the amendments and it was rejected. That's what we'll talk about when we get to the amendments. Of course, those controversial members of this law -- you really don't see how the tax base, which is the key to taxation, is going to come into play, in this case. What will serve as the amount from which the rate provided for in this law will apply? Really, it's the most crucial thing. And if that article remains 9, and we're all going to plead together, then this law will have one very controversial character. Therefore, this Article 9 speaks of the fact that, with the consent of the Government and the Commission, the Director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration may make an agreement with a person who has made extra profits. That law makes sense without this member. With this member, it doesn't make any sense. Of course, it doesn't even make sense with Article 13 in which, if you file a tax return, only this law, of all tax laws, provides the taxpayer with the possibility of a 35% relief. So many tax regulations exist, so many types of tax returns exist in our legislation and no tax form foresees tax relief because you will file a tax application. All laws provide, unless you file a timely tax return, that you will be punished. Only this law provides for the possibility, if you file an application, you will again achieve an extraprofit to file a tax application of 35%. That means, on a million marks, you're left with 350,000 marks. What kind of law is that, then? If we had system-based tax laws there, in which we were looking for a strict tax policy, we were looking for a solution to a number of tax issues, taxing new forms, and by this law we say, you have a tax relief, please file a tax return. It's not settled until we vote here. I mean, Mr. Panayotovic, this law is not well written. When we look at this law as a whole, it predicts some other things. Suppose you don't have the right to complain. Tax law is very specific and it speaks in one way. Gentlemen, there is no democracy in taxes, there must be no political parties in taxes, there are only two things in taxes -- tax base and tax rate. Everything else can't exist in taxes. In our country, however, there is much more that is not even a tax base, which is not a tax rate. When we get to the level that we have a tax base and a tax rate, there is no democracy here, taxes are a very rigid thing and the state cannot allow democracy to be introduced into taxes. This is one way to bring democracy into taxes. I think it's absolutely wrong, unconsistent. I must comment on the minister's explanation that a serious mistake has been made here. I hope by amendments this error will be corrected. Finally, when it comes to law enforcement -- extra profit is determined, and then the base is determined, so the rate applies to it and it always ends, I keep listening to some numbers. When it comes to the privatisation law - 200 to 300. This extra profit bill - 200 to 300. I don't understand where those numbers - 200 to 300 will be taxed. (President: Time. So he has to be taxed on everyone. They must be covered by those who have achieved extraprofit and extrazarad. In the end, not to be misunderstood, when you comment on our discussions here and throw them away, please deal with this law seriously. He treats all citizens of Serbia. You can't write a political pamphlet for reasons of the law and ask citizens for trust. This law must apply to everything, it must be applicable to everything and no one can be excluded. I didn't want to use anyone's private companies here, no one's private companies, but I'm just saying, get serious about this law, it's very serious. Let's not make a mistake about someone. In this country, there were people who had gained their wealth in a fair way. I don't have it or own it, but maybe someone here will get hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9274	Replica, Mr. Panajotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9275	Dear fellow ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that each of us has the right to use this pay phone in the interest of propagating our political options. My friend Tomic, with whom I worked bloodyly for four hours yesterday on the Legislative Committee, knows very well, as the members of the Finance Committee, that the amendment to Article 13 has been accepted and that the right to reduce the tax rate by 35% has been lifted. Of course, Mr. Tomic took the opportunity to re-propagate his party's views in front of TV viewers and draw animosity to a bill that is very logical. This government has tried to accept everything logical and everything that is normal as an amendment. Whether it'll be an SPS amendment, DOS, it doesn't matter if we're all fighting for the interest of the people. This time the amendment is accepted. I recommend to Mr. Tomic that he conduct his party's propaganda elsewhere in another way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am certainly also familiar with the work on committees, as I participate in the work of the Legislative and Financial Committee. I want to answer what Mr. Panajotovic was talking about, with which I like to talk about these issues, because he deals in a professional way with these topics and doesn't throw away, like some of them who haven't even read the laws yet. It's true, but this is a principled part of the debate on this law. The government has not come forward on all matters, when it comes to Article 9 of this law. She didn't come out until the end when it came to Article 13. These are two very controversial members. The majority of the amendments submitted by MPs from all political parties -- the SRS, the SPS, DS and DSS, refer to the application of the two members. So they all doubted these two members. So I asked the government to plead here for a decade. It was not my intention to make political propaganda for my party, that Mr. Panajotovic would not get it wrong, but that the government would clearly state what would happen to these two members of the law. If these two members of the law stay as they are written, we will not give support to this law. I suppose not even most of the MPs in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9277	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9278	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you're done, I'd like a brief, well - there's time. What I would say about the bill is this. First of all, this law refers to the achievement of extra income and extra profit, fine terminology, and those entities of farming that used, firstly, the funds of the Development Fund, secondly, primary emissions, and thirdly, part of them also used part of the NBJ exchange rate that was then valid, and thus become the subject of paying taxes on extra income. This part is directly unfair to these operators for reasons that it is a branch that has used primary emissions for a longer period of time. Unfortunately, lately, these funds have been placed through business banks, benefiting from business banks, and these entities have only benefited from some of these benefits. In view of the fact that price discrepancies were valid, that the prices of agricultural products and final products in the area of agriculture, and that I mean primarily the products of the slaughterhouse industry, were directly controlled by the Government, whether they were federal or republican, then that part of the economy was certainly unable to achieve extra income and extra profit. They will find themselves unfairly in these scissors and will be burdened once again by paying taxes on these charges, as provided for by this law. The other thing that is not covered by this law is the part that's been talked about here a lot, which is a gray economy. If, for example, we take one example, that someone in any purse or bag can bring in a lot of printed cars, a lot of tiristors, a lot of transistors, and that's very nice on the market, that's not in any way under state control, that's a nice sale and a nice profit, that we can say make two houses in Belgrade, that schooling a child abroad, that there's no other benefits, and that there's no way to determine how these good ones got done, then it's certain that it's the lack of this law, at least in that part. And that it went according to the tax application system, tax return control, property control owned by every entity in this country, and that it shows tax returns, and that there's a way out of the tax report whether someone acquired that property and reported complete obligations to the state along the way, so from what's left, he gained all the benefits he or she has, or the material goods, then that's quite all right. But if the tax returns show a complete difference between what has been reported and what the obligations are paid for, and what material goods are available to, then it is certain that this law cannot be unjust in that part. And now let me repeat what has already been said here both about Articles 9 and 13 of the Treaty. This 13th one seems to be jinxy. He's got everyone tripping around him. He does not give the right to speak of the morality and fairness of the bill. If all of this is corrected, it's fine, and then we can talk about partial justice, the partial morality of this law, because then there's no difference in one who enjoys special benefits, when he logs in to the competent Republic institution for income, or a famous agreement is made with him, if everything is fair and correct, that he has a reduction of 35%. Such a way of functioning of this law, with these two members, can neither be just nor correct until the end, nor can such talk about morality within this law. I'd like to mention another area that wasn't mentioned here. We're all witnesses that there's been a huge purchase of apartments. These apartments were bought in a legitimate manner, there was a disturbance on the market, I'm not explaining it, there's plenty of talking about it, all the conditions, the sanctions and everything else, and that they were bought at prices that are well below market prices. It is not disputed that whoever invested for 20 and 30 years comes to the apartment and has it as his own property. That's not at all controversial. It's a slow part -- one significant number of owners of such acquired assets, so acquired apartments, sold these apartments at market prices without paying the difference in capital gains along the way. This should be found as a subject of taxation and extra income creation, extra profit under this law, and not just the part that has been mentioned here, and this is about the acquired right beyond what is assigned to the rules or solutions of the competent authorities in enterprises, the excess living space, but followed by the user of that living space. Therefore, this injustice should also be corrected in this way and said that if this law is applied in this way, or corrected in this way, then it can be said that it is just, just, and moral. I personally don't mind the passing of this law. I took part in that government that you're talking about, in that regime, I have a second-hand bike and a family house, which I inherited, and one I built. That family's 80 years old. Therefore, I am not being tangled by any of this law. I didn't get anything extra, and I don't mind at all. But I'm talking about this second part that what we bring must be just and just and in a fair way applies to everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9279	There's a word from MP Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9280	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of law that lies before us today is one of the laws that will be found before this people's assembly, with the aim of restoring what has been robbed by the Serb people, and robbed by the former regime and those close to it. Former regime members had a vivid imagination when it came to finding ways to rob Serbian citizens and wrap it up and wrap it up in legal forms, that it had a coat of legal form. Article 1 of the Law states that it is a one-time tax on extra income and property acquired by the use of special benefits. Before we say what the benefits are, we must say who could actually use those benefits. These were primarily high-ranking state officials, government presidents, ministers, directors of major state and social firms, high party officials. Some of these, then, officials, who were in this role or that role, are now with us in this House. Article 3 of the Law refers to ways, the use of these special benefits. A list of 19 ways that were most typical and most present in the previous period is listed. One of the most present was the primary and gray money emissions, as well as the purchase of foreign exchanges in the official course, when the commercial course was far higher and when the differences in the screening and sale of foreign exchanges earned enormous amounts of money. We were witnesses at the time that, when the shelves in the shops were empty, they were filling their pockets with the same foreign currency members of the former regime at the same time. One of the ways that members, who were close to the regime, made sure that money from the primary show and gray money emissions ended up in various banks, such as Dafiment, such as "Yugoscan", and after that, the same exchanges were drawn from these banks. Of course, neither the work of the Yugoslavs nor the work of the Dafiment Bank at the time simply wasn't possible without the help of the state. Also, Article 3(4) speaks of imports and distribution of excise products. We all know very well what it's all about - cigarettes, coffee, hot drinks, enormous profits on these products. At that time, a free shop and a couple of tows sold a daily cigarette without the state having any control over it, and for the sake of the fiscus, it did not collect any revenue. We're talking about fairies, big houses, flats, cars, all those phenomenal shapes, what it really was and what the members of the regime were doing. They're just symbols of wealth. What they've been doing, what they've been doing, what they've been doing, what they've been doing, what they've been doing, what they've been doing, what they've been doing, what they've been doing, what they've been doing, what Point 5 speaks of another way they did it - importing and exporting products in the contigent regime and quotas. Let us remember only one classic example, which is an example of former Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic, who was also the CEO of Progress, and let us only remember that he and his company were able to work with goods such as gas, such as raspberries, such as wheat, and all other products, which were highly profitable. Except for all these ways, not to list them all, there are 19 of them, in article 6, we're talking about solidarity. It is that all those who have tried to register companies, their businesses, their sons, daughters, and women, avoid the application of this law. However, they were wrong, too, because the principle of solidarity and they will be hit. We had a chance to hear here, for this pay phone, that some and their houses had reported to their mothers. The wealth of the people's misfortune, at a time when they were starving in Serbia, is evidence of the greatest moral collapse our country has experienced in the previous period. In view of what people did, with what moral characteristics, nothing else could have been expected of them. What is fundamental in their character are courtship, insensitivity and, simply, the absence of feelings for the community, for the state and for the people. We promised this law in the pre-election campaign to give Serbia and Serbia's citizens, and therefore this law, whether corrected or not through the amendments, will certainly be given to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9281	There's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9282	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, respected journalists - yes, I respect journalists, because they are doing a hard job, and you are misusing them, there has been a law that has long been announced in the election campaign of the DOS technical coalition that has been announced as a fair solution, as the possibility of a fair solution for all those who have acquired great wealth in the past difficult time, without being able to prove it. For such a law I would vote with both hands, because it is true that normal time is necessary to catch up, and if possible, to get rich, and in a difficult time, when that happens, it is immoral. This bill of law doesn't do any of that. If accepted, as proposed, the largest number of those we thought would be taxpayers, according to the provisions of this law, will only legalize their wrongly acquired property, and so on. The tax will be paid by those who, truth be told, from their government to their national bank, from their business banks to certain conditions of certain credits, bought foreign exchanges at that price that was official, and did jobs that, in a delicate time, kept the people and the state in condition, on their feet. If one Simpo got five million credit marks from the primary show and returned 7,800,000 marks, along with the obligations that went with it, should the provisions of this law pay another 7,500,000 marks today? That's how much he'll pay if this law is passed. You, gentlemen, will not punish by this law any director of any firm, in this way, if the law is consistently applied, you will prevent a large number of people from doing their jobs normally, in the plants that have survived, among other things, thanks to the benefits that are the subject of this law. If, as you say, you are the most transparent government in the world, then why is Article 16, why is secrecy and why the secrecy, which you fear, whom you can resent, and why does one such member stand in one of these laws at all? He disqualifies you as serious politicians and serious people. If someone under the provisions of a law is obliged to pay something to the state, then it must be public and what he has to pay is public. The explanation you gave speaks of something else. You in concentric circles, as soldiers say, focus your fire on judging the SPS every day. She will endure the SPS and this court, and this assembly, she has endured something worse, but it is not for this occasion. There is no fear and no one from the parliamentary benches among the Socialists in this House will be found on this list. It's hard to say, and I will, 37 SPS MPs in this assembly don't have five decent suits. But go ahead, gentlemen, go ahead. One of your MPs said it wasn't about revenge. It is revenge, only revenge is always more foolish than the damage it refers to, and it always leaves more serious consequences than the damage itself. Don't get caught in that trap, because you're known for democratic power. And your name is democratic, and your parties are called democratic, only your behavior isn't always like that. We understand that, only if you really want to be, you have to cultivate that kind of relationship and you have to prove it to the public every day. Who will be most pleased with the individual legal solution? Most of all, those who control Serbia today will be happy about enormous wealth, which is acquired by books, past the final accounts, which do not exist in any record. They will celebrate tonight, or tomorrow, when this law is passed. And they'll have a serious reason to thank you, because they'll completely calmly legalize what they've acquired in a troubled time. In any explanation, you didn't mention a political and economic environment in which all this was happening. Is it possible that eight years of sanctions from the international community is not worth a single line of reasoning, in the law you mentioned and offered. Someone here said there was hunger in Serbia. In Serbia, there was also a dying reason why the so-called human international community did not allow a plane flying from Belgrade's airport with oxygen bottles to the Banja Luka maternity site and that is why it was dying in this country. It's not just that, as you say here, sanctions are a project that has decomposed this country, which has split into simple facts and that is a parting project every day. This project unfortunately takes place today with your blessing. I can't believe you're doing this consciously. I want you to believe what you're doing, but what you do to Serbia every day brings more and more serious consequences. You don't practically look back on the economy with a single sentence in the law. You're only interested in budget income and one-time income. What it means when the law itself says that the tax is not charged from the current inflow, but from the company's substance. That, dear gentlemen, is not tax, it's nationalisation or ransom, whatever you want to call it. It's not the law to get the company to work normally, but to destroy it, or to lower the price, so you sell it to someone, if it's already targeted. There's a whole bunch of other things. You wrote among other things in Article 3. - privileged payments of frozen old foreign exchange savings and saving of pyramid banks etc. Whose gentlemen are right to be threatened when someone uses their right? If someone takes the money they invested in a bank, who's he threatening? The ones they didn't take? Of course, it's just that he doesn't commit any crimes on his own. That's the point. In point 9 of Article 3, you say - using the funds of point 8 deposited at interest below interest which could be achieved at the moment of deposit on the market. Does this mean that the director of one company could offer his assets to the pyramidal bank for an 8% interest, so he didn't decide on it, but offered the bank that gives normal interest, three or four percent on an annual basis. Is he supposed to be responsible for this today? That, among other things, is in the bill of this law. Serbian citizens expected other laws from you, and they did not get any laws. I will not vote for this law even if all amendments are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9283	The word is made by the MP Bogoljub Zečević, and then by Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, over the past 10 years, the previous regime has led the people of this country to ruin, and at the same time the people of the previous government and the people of the close government have become enormously rich. There are stories that they were working in accordance with the law of that time. If so, these laws did not apply to all, but only to those privileged. Is it right for individual social or private enterprises to get money from the primary show and thus damage other businesses and their citizens. Is it right if someone buys foreign exchanges from the National Bank for six dinars, and the rest have to pay market prices. Is it right that certain companies, so-called paper-washing, avoid paying sales taxes or other obligations, directly harming the state and all citizens of Serbia. Is the correct contigence and quota regime, manipulation of state funds, abuse of the directors of social and state-owned enterprises, purchase of apartments larger than those belonging to them, loans under favourable conditions to other citizens, spilling capital from social to private enterprises, etc. It is said that this is a purely political campaign directed against the previous government, which is absolutely not true. It's not our fault that the SPS made such a climate, where people who joined this party could have had privileges that other citizens were inaccessible. It is not our fault that the ideologies of JUL were believed only by the director of the Directorate, and the ideology of the other members was exclusively of personal interest. Those of the previous authorities who have not used these privileges, have nothing to fear, and those who have, have and should fear. Next, I would especially like to emphasise that Serbia cannot be led in the future by those who have become rich while Serbian citizens have fallen into poverty and poverty. If Serbia's elite are not fair and smart, those who earn capital by working, then I fear for the future of our country. I will vote for this law for two reasons. First, it brings such a moral satisfaction to those who have lived for 10 years, watching people in power or close authorities become enormously rich. Secondly, since the new government is having trouble providing money for normal functioning of the state, this is a way to fill the budget and from the people who attach this law, take some of the money they've acquired using these privileges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9285	The word has the finance minister, Mr. Djelic, behind the announcement will you? Okay, Dragan Todorovic, so Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my regret that in this day we have had to witness a very unpleasant situation and say that I am truly not delighted, nor am I a supporter of force in politics. As far as the law itself is concerned, I must say that I expected the new government, in accordance with its pre-election promises, to approach not the witch hunt, but the establishment of production, the restoration of the production capacity of our businesses. Unfortunately, we're not discussing this today. We are witnessing the fact that production in our country is perhaps lower than it was last year. We are witnessing the fact that there are already estimates of the individual institutes that institutional production in 2001 will not reach the level of 2000, that there is a decline in production in industry, which in April is 9.2% lower than in March this year etc. So the new government is not paying attention to what is being lived on, but rather paying attention to witches. That is exactly what this legal proposal looks like to me, and when I was preparing to discuss this law with some of the people of the profession and knowledge, there were some words that this law is extremely similar to the Law establishing the origin of the property from a far distance in 1972. A year. At the time, I was unable to argue about it, but today we were witnesses to hear some of the more experienced people, who for the first time took part in this law and this legislative proposal. In fact, we all know that the Law establishing the origin of the property had one disastrous result, had a fiasco, and all the odds that this law would go that way, and therefore concerns the fact, given that this law was made specifically to fill the gaps in the budget, that at the end of the year and in the course of the year, we would already have a lack of funds in our own thin budget, which was made to expect investments from abroad, so from donations and with the funds from privatisation, which is very discriminatory how it will be implemented. So, instead of our government commits itself to solving problems in the economy, we are now dealing with issues that are related to the investigation of the origin of the property, and immediately to say that I belong to those MPs who absolutely do not advocate something like that. It's my personal opinion that it's not the time for such a thing, because we really have a lot of work to do since our people are getting harder alive, given that prices are getting higher, given that the standard is getting lower, but what is there? You are most of them, and you have responsibility for what we are considering today and what we are discussing. So I absolutely believe that it is necessary in one rational manner and in a rational way to examine how individuals in our environment have become rich, how they have acquired enormous wealth that can truly be fragrant, even for some more developed societies than this is our poverty. Exactly who, of course, since the gentleman asks me who it is, I have to say that we are in a pre-election campaign and you and we have some announcements that as soon as we win the last election, we will approach a public statement about who has what. So here, I'll tell you what, let's see which one of us has here. To report the property to everyone and pass the law. You're the promoters and let's pass a law in which we'll all report our property, so let's see where we are. So, don't make any illusions that there are no people among you who have been exploited by exploiting certain situations over the past ten years, when evil sanctions were outdone over our country, when we were bombed, and I have to remind you that during this ten-year period, we looked a little like the time when the measures of the ban on drinking were imposed in America, so it produced a frantic dose of corruption, smuggling, crime. So the sanctions that were imposed on us were not introduced to make us feel better, but to make us worse, and as a byproduct of all that, those who came along on this basis, and the anomalies that came into effect in our society, and exploited. So, once we should publicly say that we are in favour of identifying who has what, and then later in some future period we should approach and explore how those who have certain good have acquired those good things. That's what we promised in the election campaign. With this overarching law, I think that such a case will not be possible and the very fact that, in the light of this law, it states, therefore, that the reasons for the adoption of this law are the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, who left it, etc., I will not read the argument itself, the fact that the first sentence speaks of the rule of Slobodan Milosevic talking about the fact that this law has been governed by a single lie of the SPS as a party that has indeed been in power in the past 10 years, and that it is not governed by the principle of justice and justice that has been so many words today after this speaker. Why do I say that? The arguments are next. One-time tax in Art. 2. Extra income and extra property are taxed in the period from 1.01.1989. What do you think, and it's really mine and the opinion of many others, how will the one who took the loan go through on 31.12.1988? He won't be covered by this law. Next, I won't comment on the article. 3. because I really think that he is missing and that there are many forms of benefits that are not covered by these 19 points, but what's interesting is that Article 9 really explains what the essence of this law is. Therefore, the contractual establishment of a tax base, which can be established by the Director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, we all know who, and the taxpayer, is therefore in an agreed manner, without public presence, in a way that conventions with their wills and in a way that opens up possibilities for countless manipulations. That is why it is absolutely necessary for this member to be revised or deleted. There is just one such way that is unacceptable, so if we want this law to be serious, there should be no such provision that allows for further manipulation. It's really funny to get into art. 11, it points out that one who submits accurate data should be rewarded for the correct information in the tax return. It's something that is absolutely assumed and one that gives incorrect information, of course, should answer for it. People who meet their civic obligations in this way should not be particularly rewarded. The tax relief of 35% is indeed another additional argument in favour of my claim that this law is not aimed at achieving justice and justice, and I think at this point there is enough reason for everyone to realize that this law needs to be extremely ironed in order to achieve exactly what we are all seeking, without talking about the provisions which repeal the provisions of the Law on Bonds, etc. But I think it's a good time for us all to realize now that this law needs to be done, not in terms of its softening, but in terms of its sharpening, that once before the public we would come out clean and that we could look into each other's eyes tomorrow, rather than speak some political phrases and flossules, of which no one can benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9287	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9288	Ladies and gentlemen, I say we've been doing a little bit less today, so I suggest we extend our work a little bit until the debate is over in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9289	No discussion, no counter-proposal. It can only be more, it can't be in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9290	Mr. Chairman, we are re-entering some of the behaviors in the congregation that we have created before and are now likely to go towards creating a bad atmosphere. This sudden, for the people who survived today an extremely difficult event It's not that difficult that the MPs of the SRS were in position... [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9291	Mr. Ivkovic, I asked you. Please don't talk about it. [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9292	It's much harder to see hate coming out of the eyes of a piece of Parliament, unfortunately, and from a woman's eyes. It is not right today that SPS MPs do not accept an extension of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9293	Mr. Ivkovic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9294	They don't accept the extension of work. It's not okay, come on in, will you all get out of the O.R.? All right, you want (SPS ambassadors leaving the room).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9295	We didn't have another suggestion. I ask the MPs to make a statement about the motion to continue with the session until the debate is over in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 114, against 11, the three abstentions, did not vote 20, a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion to continue the session until the debate is over in principle. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Please, just identify yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9296	In accordance with Article 95, please establish a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9297	Please confirm the quorum. I figure we have a quorum. The word has Minister Djelic, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to answer at least a few key questions that were raised during this debate. First of all, I'd like to say that this debate, if measured by that debate we had under some other laws, was brought by both committees and by a few interesting ideas. The proof of this is 14 amendments adopted. Some of the opposition are similar to those proposed by DOS. So we did it, I think we can fix this law. For example, we circled what's called a base, by now predicting what's going on and at what rate is taxed by that taxpayer who has extra profit or extra profit from multiple sources and extra income or extra income. I'd like to say a few words about the seven key questions and answers we've heard and discussed. Let me conclude with a few words. The first question that's been asked here multiple times is whether this is a unique example in legal history, in world practice, whether we're going into some innovation with this, as some have said in some adventure. The answer is decadent no. For example, after World War II, Belgium, France, Germany passed similar laws that were meant to hang and hang war profiters. The Netherlands in the 1950s, with a few years behind schedule, because there were big earthquakes and social ones, because they didn't do it after World War II, they passed a similar law. Closer to us, Indonesia and some Latin American countries did exactly the same thing. Does that mean there's nothing new in this case? Unfortunately, there is, but what is new and what I think our legal experts are going to do and how well explain it is that, unfortunately for us, this law is the richest example of looting the people. The richest is how many species extra gains and extraprofits should be found and taxed. By that, it's not unique, but it's a unique example. As we are a unique example of a single society, which in the 20th century has made it possible and experienced a national disaster, where in ten not full years 60% of national wealth has been lost, where the growing and wider layers of our society fall into very deep poverty, and the country is in deep, deep isolation, losing its most traditional allies and is in a simple hopeless situation. I answer the first question. This law is not unique. However, the proportion and diversity of our national collapses are such that it is unique in the 20th century and in national legal practice. The second question was, I think, whether this law should be applied indefinitely. That answer must be no. If we really want to break up with our past, if we have any faith in a better future, we must admit that what has happened and hope that what has happened in the last 12-13 years will be unique in the history of the Serbian people. Thus, this law will appear, as far as this government is concerned, as a proposal only this year, this is an extraordinary tax and an extraordinary law that will enter into fact only this year. This does not mean that the application of this law will end on December 31st of this year. This means, if we establish and establish a tax base for taxation, it will not cease to be valid until the end of the whole application, to the last dinar to be charged in the form of this law. So this law should continue to be applied, but as a circle, as a clearing-up with a very difficult past, it must be and remain unique and as a one-time tax. There were questions about whether it should begin in 1992, with the introduction of sanctions from the international community towards us. It is obvious that international economic sanctions have been a difficult factor in the lives of all of us. It is very surprising to hear it from those who want to, and who have led this country, to apply it only since 1992. It's for two reasons. The first reason is that if this law were applied since 1992, two types of potential taxation would be left out. It is a loan for Serbia's rebirth and another is the freezing of foreign savings. It would be very unfair for our citizens to be left out of the application of this law. The second, perhaps even more important reason why this must not be about sanctions, or that the application of this law or the types of enriching are linked to international sanctions, is that we simply have to realize that someone can defend those who, at the very moments of sanctions, found fit to defile their face, the face of their people, by accepting enormous privileges, and at the time our country, at the time of sanctions and isolation, when a large part of our population goes into even deeper poverty. That's why I think this date, which is proposed and which includes all of those large types of extra-rich and extra assets that have been collected for the last 11-12 years, is ta1. January 1989 is very appropriate. The third question that was asked is whether this law is fair. In other words, does he tax just those who have created extra profits or extra assets, using special benefits, which is the subject of this law? There's a decadent answer - yes. Because for one who has read good intentions in this law, it is very easy to find that he is quite a target and wants to tax, and very deeply and with rates of 90%, the real substance of what has been acquired in this unfair way. It's that narrow circle of people -- the law of them hangs -- which is because of the closeness with the former regime and one system that was organized in a way that those who are closer to it can come to a great wealth, while others and those who increase the masses continue to sink into misery. That is why it is extremely surprising to hear from some opposition parties that this law is not good because it deals only with the institutional form of looting the people. It's just the subject of this law. That's exactly what we're talking about. It's the organized robbery of our people by those who were connected and who had special advantages to get to those wealth and privileges that no normal citizen had access to. As for the classical mafia or classical tax evasion, those species we really have in Serbia today, they are not the subject of this law, but in no case forgotten. The vision we have today in our country, when we can have people who have one big property, big villas, strong, angry, says our people, cars, and at the same time show very little or even no profit in their businesses or any registered form of economic activity, this vision is so important that it must be regulated permanently and in regular procedure. Therefore, within a maximum of two to three months, we will go before you with one proposal for a tax administration law, where it will finally be possible in our country to establish that cross-check of all types of property and income, so as to determine whether there are irregularities and whether there are any irregularities that question the legitimacy of non-indemity. So, like all normally arranged countries, those who can't explain where they got such property, they have to return it and pay a very deep tax on it. But it's the subject of another law, one of the regular procedures that we need to get to. And by the way, it's surprising, because it's one perfectly normal phenomenon that exists everywhere and in the regular form of tax collection, that those who are criticising this law today have not found it appropriate to vote exactly like that, and precisely the kind of measures in these laws that have been given in this form today. So, the answer to whether this tax is just is decadent -- yes, and other types of property of suspected origin will be and how it will be covered by one draft tax administration law, which will come before you in a few weeks. The fourth question we have heard is, should this law preserve the contractual establishment of a tax base? Put your hands on your heart, it's obvious, given those who are in DOS and outside the DOS, everyone has told us that here is one of the most problematic and perhaps one of the most open issues in this law. The answer to that, for me and for the government, is that Article 9, i.e. agreeing to establish a tax base, but only with what is proposed, very close control of the government, the Assembly and the public over what is done and on this matter. (President: Time. ) I would just like to explain why such a solution is proposed, which is the coronal mechanisms and in the end, one proposal for you to vote on this. Article 9 is there that this law, which has primarily a moral background, would succeed on the economic plan to bring what our citizens expect, which is charging, and quickly, the tax for which this law is proposed. Simply, given that the man who needs to talk to them the most, the patients we talk about and the matter we're talking about, it's very important that at this moment and in this complicated matter there's an opportunity to quickly penetrate matter and in one non-secret, but an effective way to determine the basis, especially because there's a lot of complicated visions that these people are getting rich in and get to what our people expect as soon as possible, and that's -- the effects of this law and these measures. I would just like to say that this way of dealing with large taxpayers exists in all countries and exists in all these single taxation laws that I've been talking about, so there's no innovation here. However, the control mechanisms provided for there are multiple. First, the Director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, meaning, the head man of one of the main administrations in our country, is that, not alone, not in secret, but he is authorized to enter into a conversation with those who need to pay this tax and in those rare cases where this basis is to be agreed on, suggests a solution to the Commission. This commission, which is made up of a large number of ministers of our government and governor of the NBJ, should accept it or not accept it. The government should then give or not give its consent to this agreement, which will be public by that time, and the Assembly, according to some proposed control mechanisms, and what we expect as Government, i.e. The control board of this assembly for the implementation of this law will have every moment of insight into what is happening. These control mechanisms are sufficient for that Article 9 to be applied exactly as proposed. That's why I suggest you vote for him and not accept those amendments that erase him. However, it is very indicative that from various parties, proposals are coming from various regions to delete the member. The interpretation for me is that we still have little confidence in each other, especially in the institutions, especially in the work of our state administrations. I simply wanted to explain tonight, and also the second time that the amendment was discussed, why this article was proposed, which are control mechanisms. Of course, it will be up to you to decide whether to vote to preserve that member or not. The hand on the heart, as a minister who will be a member of the commission, also for the director of the Republic's administrative public income, and also for the government, will in fact be simpler that this member does not exist. Because it is obvious that in the part of the public, even here in the congregation, there will be some sort of suspicion that there are no reasons for making some deals or some side deals with people who have to pay taxes. It'll be easier if he's gone, but it'll be much more efficient and more money if he has it. If you think these control mechanisms are enough, if we can find a way to strengthen it, I think it'll be better if we save that member. Of course, the government will act according to your vote and your decision on the member. The sixth question I would like to propose as my statement on this issue, and it has often been drawn here, is money going to be returned to just those who have been robbed? The answer is yes. But if you look at the sources of extra profit and extra profit, you can see that in many cases it is not possible to directly connect one social group or individual people to what happened and what was robbed. That is why, what is proposed to you today, it is to open a special account in the Republic of Serbia's budget, where the money and the funds will be bought quite publicly. A programme will also be adopted, when that money is collected, and at the latest by the end of this year and explain to which purpose that money will be spent. It is obvious that if we say that this tip will be spent primarily on those who have been robbed, we mean those social groups that have been hit most deeply over the past 11 years. These are the ones who have fallen deepestly, those who are in the deepest poverty. Of course we'll spend the most of that money on social programs. (President: Please conclude. I just want to conclude, if this law is being talked about, many have said that it is purely political. He can't be partially political. Of course, a part-loss policy has led us to where we are today, even this law, even its application. However, he is not vengeful at all, because if you look at who he refers to, what provisions he is given, you see that he defines himself as a group of people, only those who were close to the authorities and who otherwise used, or in an extremely inappropriate way, their privileges. For the greatest is the injustice of one's own evil. And that's what this law is trying to at least partially correct. It satisfies the fundamental thirst for our people's justice and therefore everyone in these groups has accepted and seen, as much as 80 to 90% of our citizens according to these latest polls supports this law. It is up to us, when he is voted, with several corrections, to carry him out consistently. So we owe them that and it didn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-18-0.u9299	There are no more applications for discussion. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the debate in principle. I conclude the principled search and put to the vote the bill on a one-time tax on extra income and extra property acquired by taking advantage of the special benefits in principle. For 146, there was no abstention one, not one, a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 p.m.
