ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of attitude one 100 has been injured and said to be in line at a session of the National Assembly of the Old Presidents of the National Assembly. Yesterday, the president of the National Assembly took care exclusively of the riot in the National Assembly and was personally responsible for all that was happening in the building of the National Assembly, especially in this room. He's responsible because he used double arches in a completely incorrect manner, I might be exaggerating, but I think maybe I'm close to the truth if I say it in an inhuman way. A man who didn't speak a word of warning to those who were radicals, for you present colleagues here in the National Assembly, even though I don't know how they were politically different from them, said they weren't human, and the man who told the man who threatened you here, howled, and I don't know what he said, and even stood next to a few SRS MPs wanting to provoke them to a physical account, so he told him, either he wanted it or he had a mental disorder, he took the word. It's something that's most brutally done. Of course, you can after that via your obedience media, through various Milica Dapčević, Sladjana Slavkovic from "The Voice of the Public", BK TV and everyone else to say that radicals are crazy, that they are responsible for everything, but it is simply not true and you know it all in this world. You know, of course you do, but you like it and you think you can use it. Someone tell me who ordered it and ordered today's News to announce that yesterday Michael is here talking about Vojislav Seselj's wife trading in artificial fertilizer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12620	I ask you to speak of the injury of the Rules of Procedure, not of spreading the subject, Mr. Wolf, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12621	I'm laying down the Rules of Procedure and don't warn me. Have Mr. Michael come out and say whose wife trades in artificial fertilizer. Come out here and say it. There's a cook waiting for another child, say whose wife is trading. Tell me whose wife trades in fertilizer, tell me whose it is, go out and tell me if you can. Say it's Vojislav Seselj's wife, and I'm telling you you're lying. I'm telling you if you say that, that you're lying, and if you didn't mean it, come out and tell me you didn't mean it, I hope these people of yours will announce both your correction or your different attitude. I ask and ask the President of the National Assembly not to be involved here exclusively by disposing of the MPs of the SRS, to say after that it is those who are guilty, we will throw them out, we will take away their word, we will put them away because they are the worst here, they are disturbing us that this assembly is working. You know very well that this is not true, you know that you are responsible for this situation in the National Assembly and I demand that you have the same archaics and MPs of the opposition and the MPs of the SRS in the future, according to those who will vote for you for the government, the budget and all others, that you have the same towards the MPs of the opposition, and according to your MPs, so also to the MPs of your parties. I think it's your obligation both to the Rules of Procedure and to all other positive legal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12622	Mr. Wolf, are you expecting an answer or a vote, a statement from the Assembly? You can only demand from me what I am bound by the Rules of Procedure and nothing more. You have forgotten that you are no longer the Minister of Information and that you can, as at a time when you could, demand.... This is the answer, there's no replica, this is the answer to your complaint about the Rules of Procedure, I'm talking about "News," you were talking about "News". So, at the time you performed that function, you were able to order about who to write about and who not to write about. Now you can only demand from me what I am bound by the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, I was obliged to give the measures to Mr Tomislav Nikolic when he used -- and you have a stenogram and don't speak like that here in public, we'll bring it up and we'll read it, we'll read it -- he didn't say what you said, he said the MP was mentally lagging behind, he said he was buzzed, he said he was approaching afterlife and so on. If you think that's what MPs need to tell their colleagues, then you're right. Then you're really right. You don't have the right to a replica, this was the answer, are you asking for a statement from the Assembly? I'm asking you, are you asking for a statement from the Assembly? Take it easy, take it easy. Here you go, new member.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12623	Just calm down, I'll tell you everything, don't be nervous, so it's article 90, which says the president of the National Assembly when he chaires the National Assembly session, if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly. Don't interfere if your MPs are caught in a lie and let them come out and answer from here, don't act smart. Don't, because it doesn't suit you, and this place doesn't give you the right, and don't think you can do it at any time. Mr. Martian, you lied because I will now read to you what Mr. Tomislav Nikolic said. He didn't say the MP was mentally lagging behind. From the stenographic notes, for the sake of the MPs, I will read all the details and you will see that mentally lagging or alternative to what Tomislav Nikolic was talking about does not make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12624	Mr. Vukic, you didn't get a word based on the replica, because you have no right to it, but based on the objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12625	You don't like the truth, the thing is, you like to make it up, not to tell you that you love something else to do because it doesn't seem like decent people, but that's exactly what you do, Mr. Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12626	Please stick to the topic you called in. It is an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12627	I've already told you my objection to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12628	Then I'm asking you to leave the pay phone if you're done with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12629	I have to explain it to you. I have three minutes to explain it. You be patient, don't worry too much, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12630	I'm not worried. It's running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12631	You've even said here... "you can say whatever you want, but the vice president has stopped at three SRS MPs wanting to cause a conflict and a fight. I don't see any other reason than mental disorders for a man to stand by the MPs and provoke him." That's what he said, not what Mr. Martian talked about. But, Mr. Martian, that's what the facts were yesterday. If it wasn't an insult to you to say that someone is human, and someone isn't in this room, I'm sorry, if anything, at least you're insulting our children. We're counting on them to be human, if we're not. At least they didn't do anything to you, Mr. Martian. Secondly, as for former times, you who are now a official in Djindjic's government, I must tell you that you can't talk about who, what or how, who and what can, because since 1988, Serbia has never had such one-many in the media, never had such shame in Serbian public voices, where you have no "o" opposition and don't transfer such things to anyone because it goes to your harm and to your shame. You, Mr. Michael, come out and tell me what's true of what I've said, that I'm lying or telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12632	Since we've agreed to what's in the record and since you've confirmed the words I've said, then there's no need for us to put it to a vote. Replica, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12633	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am not going out because Mr. Vukic called me or because of some other things. I believe that the simple way in which and personally, and the parliamentary group that I belong, performs in the congregation, acts in the congregation, goes in the direction that no one is ever mentioned personally and that we are looking to avoid the way of communication that exists and that some are trying to establish. I didn't mention Mr. Seselj. I was talking about the present time, I wasn't talking about the past tense. I didn't mention Mr. Seselj, and I don't know how that information got to the press. There are various professions, we've spoken hypothetically about the others, and whether your wife is a housewife or not, I don't know, and I don't care. There are other women who do other different jobs, so it's simple, and it wasn't intended to hit anyone. We want to introduce a new way of working in this Parliament, at the level of principled debates, without giving details of any MP or any public figure's private life, and from me and the DSS MPs you'll never hear of any detail from any private life, was the MP of DOS, the SRS or the SPS. And in this case I haven't talked about anyone personally, nor will I speak from this pay phone, especially things that can't be verifiable in that way and that can be the fruit of speculation from journalists or some other circles. We speak here in principle and neither was mentioned directly, nor, as mentioned, referred to whoever you mentioned. Mr. Wolfie, there's no reason for anyone to be angry. I don't know why someone's called if we're talking in principle that there are various professions that people do, and we're dealing with politics here and we're not going to go into personal matters. We have a Rules of Procedure ahead of us. I can accept your reasoned criticism that he has some restrictive provisions, that he does not comply with the Constitution, and I will answer to those objections in any case and be prepared to debate both here and on committees, but I will not bring personal insults to your personal objections, if they are, I will not answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12634	The word is Mr. Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12635	I just want to remind you, Mr. Marsican, that yesterday's session of the Assembly was interrupted after the release of SRS MP Tomislav Nikolic. But as chairman of these congregations, you have one obligation, if you don't already have that much capacity and potential to remember, that's why it serves you. The assembly was to declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which I had advertised, Articles 95 and 96, because you did not call on the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, when Mr. Michael, who is now retarded, cited some facts from the private life of a president whose wife is involved in the trade in artificial fertilizer. It remained unclear, but by Article 101 no matter what it is, an MP who represents such facts either must be clear to the end or you must give him a warning. Just to remind you, since it is obvious that the service has failed you, SRS MP Stevo Dragisic was expelled when he mentioned in his speech the wife of Vojislav Kostunica, Zorica Radovic, who deals, as Zorica Radovic said in the form of Vojislav Kostunica, and from the mouth of Mr Mihajlov, a scientific paper. If you've thrown one MP out of this pay phone and gone so far, at least use article 101 and warn the MPs, regardless of what belongs to the same MP group. I ask you to respect the procedure and that the Assembly declares the breach of the Rules of Procedure. How the Assembly will plead, nor do you know, and even less I know, but put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12636	Yeah, that's what we're supposed to do. We had a long debate about whether the store was artificial fertilizer, whether it was offensive or not, which was why a reminder was to be made. I will put on the vote by the MPs, to declare whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure in this sense as Mr Mircic has said. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 35, against 108, the abstentions of 6, were not voted 18, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP Milan Jankovic has the word, followed by MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, is before us a new Rules of Procedure aimed at abolishing every different opinion expressed in this House. They sound amazing to some of the draft members of the Rules of Procedure. On this occasion, I would quote the current SRJ President, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, who said on the occasion of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure in 1994: "The new text is a product of the ruling coalition, made illegal, because it sought to eliminate most MPs from the work of parliament. Everything says that Serbia is returning to one-sided, and this parliament serves as a fig leaf for democracy." His whole words could also refer to the proposal of the proposed rules of procedure that we are considering today, as proposed by the DSS parliamentary group. I would remind you that the previous 1994 Rules of Procedure, compared to what the DSS offers, is an expression of the greatest democratic achievements. I wonder what incumbent President Vojislav Kostunica would say, that by any chance it is in the opposition, for the proposal of this Rules of Procedure. He'd probably say Hitler's smiling right now because he sees someone approaching his way of ruling, and Stalin's angry because he's overcome. The question is, what will be the next step after the adoption of this Rules of Procedure? Probably the abolition of MPs -- first those who think differently, and then those who think the same. When we came to the MPs - criminal provisions provided for in this Rules of Procedure, we brought the country's MPs into the position of the wrongdoers or delinquents, because the verbal delinquent is being punished, and we know with what ferocity the current officials have been dissipating to criminal provisions on the verbal delinquency. This is all the source of the inability of the current government. In the inability to solve problems in a way promised to Serbian citizens in a pre-election campaign, they reach for such restrictive measures. I wonder if the amendments to the Rules of Procedure will improve the state of affairs in the country, will these changes jump the standard to the citizens, will the sunbeam stop the economy? Of course the answer is no. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure should prevent the presentation of the truth about the country's catastrophic situation. Since the National Assembly remains the only place where a different opinion can be heard today in Serbia, these interventions in the Rules of Procedure are being turned off and that last ray of light. Serbia is covered by total media darkness. It will be governed by regulations, as it has so far, where it will certainly be put up very quickly by the DOS authorities - whether we need the Assembly at all, or, at best, only the heads of parliament groups who will speak and vote on behalf of all MPs can come to the Assembly. That a man doesn't believe it came from yesterday's sworn assaulters for democracy and legalism. It would certainly be much easier to lift the transfers of assembly sessions, but it would probably be the last promise DOS made to Serbian citizens in the election campaign without having met it. That's why we're having this terrible trouble with the Rules of Procedure today. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, from all backgrounds, and from the need for a public word to be heard in Serbia, in the interest of Serbia's citizens and also the authorities and the opposition, I suggest that no proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12638	The word is made by the MP Ljubisa Maravić, and after that, MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12639	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I think that in the last three days of the Second Regular Session of the Republic of Serbia, we should discuss, given the situation in the Republic of Serbia, much more important issues, such as: the issue of the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija; problems related to southern Serbia, where, according to newly obtained information from the competent state authorities, there may be an escalation of terrorism, which could take place even in Belgrade; the fight against bribery and corruption, the situation in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, in which daily labour and strikes are suspended; the violation of the Declaration and Resolution, which was unanimously adopted by this assembly, are related to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. We have heard and have witnessed these days the formation of some "Return" coalition, which invites citizens in Kosovo and Metohija to go to the elections. Unfortunately, all of this includes some parliamentary parties, who unanimously voted here that there were no conditions for Serbs to go to the Kosovo and Metohija elections. We, here on the third day, are discussing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, a significant act of this Parliament, and by what we see, this debate is causing great attention, which is also seen in the amendments proposed by the honourable fellow MPs, which is around 600. It is understandable that our public is all public and how interested she is, and she has the right to know how and how Parliament will work in the future, whether it will be in the way that we expect the voters who chose us to represent them as representatives in this highest legislative house, in addition to protecting their interests. The question is whether the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament meets their expectations, as we have heard from many discussions that the proposals for individual solutions given are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the past ten-year multi-party system, under the agreement of all parliamentary parties, only one amendment to the Rules of Procedure on Labour in the Assembly was made, and during that period no one should have thought to question the most light rights guaranteed to each MP, which are the right to freedom of speech and public words from the assembly speaker. For example, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia have had the opportunity to speak and participate in the 370-minute debate from this assembly speaker. The current proposals, which have been made in the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, reduces their right and enables them to now participate in the debate for only 30 minutes. Second, the right of qualified participation in the process of adopting congregation acts. Our constitution, but also the constitution of developed parliamentary countries, guarantees every MP the right to submit amendments in the process of passing proposed laws. That right is now being denied to us and the question is why. The MP, which the word itself means, is a man sent by the people to represent him and cannot be disabled in his right to represent his constituents in a qualified way. In other words, it is not possible to restrict the right of the MP to represent his environment and its interests, because this is not a delegate system, but a system in which we are elected as MPs, that we participate independently and actively in the adoption of laws, budgets and similar other acts, which naturally leads to conflicts and clashes of various interests, unrelated to the political membership of the MPs. So, if we deny the right of MPs to submit amendments and ask them for unanimity, is it not a return to a one-party system in which delegates have agreed and imposed some kind of artificial unity that is inappropriate to a democratic society? Dear fellow Members, today from the most authoritative places of the ruling coalition announces the adoption of a new constitution, so the reduction of democratic dialogue in the Assembly, at the very least, means the disabling of our MPs in a qualified way, to participate in the adoption of the most important legal act of our country. It is certain that, up to now and in the past ten years, there have been procedures in the work of Parliament that have come out of the framework of elemental jurisdiction, but because of certain cases, it is not necessary to restrict the rights of all MPs, but simply to subdue everything under some rule that might have been passed, because many parliaments in the world have clearly established rules, which are terms and procedures illegal in the work of Parliament and why we would not do so too. Dear fellow Members, I propose that this amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure be withdrawn from the procedure, that a working group be formed by representatives of all parliamentary parties, who would make a new rule on the work of our parliament in a very short time, using the experiences of others.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12640	The People's MP Dusan Cvetkovic has the word, followed by MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12641	Dear fellow MPs, the esteemed presidency, have been trying to convince you from DOS how much they care about spoken words for this speaker, because these words want to help make basic assembly activities, which is the adoption of laws, advances and improvements, and to improve the adoption of laws to all of us, and positions and opposition, and first to the people. It's obvious you don't hear that, because for you, as Mr. Martian said Monday on television, every word we say is an obstruction. If my words have been spoken so far in this honorable house for you and him to obstruct, then it is mildly said what will be adopted in this Parliament these days and introduced into the rules of conduct in the Assembly, least of all, the dictatorship of the ruling majority of DOS. Unremembered censorship and banning MPs in the congregation could only have occurred to someone who was hiding behind the words of demos. Is there anyone normal and smart who can believe that the problems of my Leskovec and Belgrade are the same, that the newest solutions are good for my little black grass as well? I'm sure that's not the case. Now, by eliminating the possibility that we speak from smaller backgrounds, you have abolished any possibility of finding the problems of Vlasotanc, Major and Leskovec in front of the public, even though voters are looking for it and expecting it. So you'll never hear the word from these socialist municipalities. I am personally deprived of the right to speak in parliament, in which I was sent by 17,000 esteemed Socialist Party of Serbia voters. This, respected voters, is practically the last appearance of your Lesnjak for a pay phone, because I might show up by the end of my term once again if I can agree in my parliamentary group and convince them that the problems of Leskovec and the Jablani County are indeed the biggest. Why in the world did we, dear colleagues, enter this House when we cannot speak? Is that why we practically support the government by pressing those three buttons? Isn't it normal for me to say what I think needs to be corrected in the government's legal proposal, because don't forget, we differ significantly, you and we from the opposition. You from the position actively participate in the preparation of all legal proposals. So before they appear at the congregation meeting, you are actively working on them and are fully under way. They are the fruit of your previous debate, and when we from the opposition need to speak a word about these laws of yours, which you adopted in the previous debate, then we have no right. Where's the logic? Give an example that it is somewhere in some European Parliament, and I will take off your hat. Such a solution to the Rules of Procedure, in the part of the principled debate, the parliament is completely unnecessary. The only and fundamental function of Parliament is legislative activity, and this act is practically taken by the government. The biggest problem with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure is, I repeat, not everything you have suggested but precisely what you are taking away from us, representatives, the right to speak. The other changes related to the criminal measures are just a farce. You will certainly throw out certain measures that are indicated from this debate, in order to prove that you are, for God's sake, those who respect what the opposition says. But punishments are irrelevant. Introduce dragon measures, just don't cut your hands and other organs, I mean language, but don't deny us the right to speak because we're MPs. Gentlemen of the DOS, at the end of the day, tell me only one thing about the amendment -- which your wise head has come up with is that only one amendment can be submitted to every member of the law. To whom did such one-mindedness, such as it did not even exist in Russia in Stalin's day, come to mind? Can all 37 SPS deputies be expected to think exactly the same about each member of the law. Now, Hitler didn't believe in such one-mindedness, and you're going to adopt it. Do you think, honourable voters, that any MP can submit a legislative proposal and refer him to a congregation discussion and cannot submit an amendment. It's not absurd, I have to say the right word, it's nonsense, and for me, an engineer, and how are you lawyers, and where will your lawyers be souls when you adopt all this - God knows. And in the end, let me say -- to us who are not professionals, to us who are ordinary mortals, you will, unfortunately, benefit greatly because you will extend our lives. Every outing for a pay phone, at least mine, has been cutting my life short for a few months, and this is how, unfortunately for you, you're going to extend this red gang's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12642	This is an insult to your group (refers to a comment from the Hall that has not been heard). The People's Messenger Đura Lazic has the word, and then the Messenger Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12643	The Honored Presidency, distinguished fellow MPs, explained the motive of the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the proposer took advantage of the term and stressed that the aim is to increase the efficiency of the Assembly's work. In principle, for this purpose to be achieved and realised, to increase and improve the efficiency of the work of the Assembly, but not in this way, not by violating the provisions of the Constitution and not by denying the rights of the MPs to speak, to their opinion in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This could have been done and realized in a much more correct and better way. Discipline and efficiency do not improve by criminal measures and sanctions. It would have been much better if the president of the National Assembly had continued to implement that agreement to meet representatives of all parliamentary clubs and consensus to bring a single Rules of Procedure, which would have been binding on all MPs, and if people had agreed and if they had established one right, rules and mode of work, then everyone would have respected it without need and without reason to violate it. In essence, I would support the first and second members of this proposal for the establishment of a Privatisation Committee. In the previous debate, however, such proposals and such an initiative were said to have been accepted before, when the budget was adopted, however, the proposal for the establishment of this committee by opposition MPs was not accepted, and now I think it is good. It's also a good thing there's an interpretation going on, but not like this. It's just a blur, because here, too, about the estimated number of MPs who can put up with impelation, the Constitution is being violated. If the constitution provides that 20 MPs can apply for a debate on government confidence, why, when it comes to impelation, as a milder form of talks on the government's impact, should count 50 signatures of MPs, I hear informally that the number is increasing. I don't think that's right and that this is how MP opposition groups travel to propose such an initiative. I do not personally agree with the proposals of the article. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 to 14 because when it comes to Article 4, there is indeed a violation of the constitutional right of MPs to free expression, and in some ways the MPs are travelling to represent the voters who brought them here and to speak. All powers, practically, are transferred to the heads of the parliamentary clubs, and the rights of the MPs to the speech are lifted, or reduced. This Rules of Procedure are much more restrictive than the current Rules of Procedure. If the 1994 Rules of Procedure were previously discussed as restrictive, asphyxiating democracy, the current one is much more restrictive, and the one proposed is even more restrictive than the one in force. Such a proposal introduces totalitarianism and chokes and hinders parliamentaryism in our country. Why is that? I don't think there's any need for that, because we could do much better and more effectively if we could bring a more valid draft of the Rules of Procedure by consensus. I proposed the amendment to extend the member first and second and to establish a committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that the other fellow MPs will respect the necessity and need to have a committee for Kosovo and Metohija in this highest body in the republic, because it is clear what problems and extremely difficult conditions are in Kosovo and Metohija. This fateful national, state issue requires and imposes the need to form this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12644	I will give a replica and an explanation, and then they will receive the word of MP Branko Ruzic. Several times, a esteemed colleague stressed that it would be better if, as speaker of the assembly, I insisted on a proposal and a joint agreement that representatives of all parliamentary groups participate in writing the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If I'm not mistaken, that deal is somewhere from May or June of the month, I can't remember exactly. It would be good indeed, and believe me, there would be no happier man in this congregation than I am, if I could have insisted on that proposal. However, we must be aware of one fact. We have a group of MPs who do not participate in Parliament's work, so she has decided on her own, which is her right, to give up one of her parliamentary rights, such as the right to speak, the right to submit legislative proposals, the right to participate in the work of the Assembly. They gave up that one right, and once you're working on a Rules of Procedure that needs to regulate the work of all MPs, you should get it by consensus. If it is possible for you to get a consensus from all parliamentary groups, if you can make an agreement that such a Rules of Procedure, which is agreed, will be respected at the meetings of the National Assembly, you have a good Rules of Procedure and have the opportunity to regulate the work of the Assembly sessions and, in general, the assembly life. When you don't have such support, when you can't get it, and when you have a definitive response that one group of MPs doesn't want to participate in it, and when in practice it shows the need to destabilise an institution (which may not only be their only answer but also some way, so there are some interests that are out of the debate that we can have at this point), then we come into a situation where we need to find an answer to something that is reality. The reality is that this clump can't work effectively. There are other problems, problems of misunderstanding. Indeed, I would be the last person to advocate denying the right of the MPs to make public views, to inform the public of their views. It's good to know that there was an idea of stopping direct television transmissions. This part of you don't know, and it's that I received two requests from the Management Board of Radio Television Serbia to plead on it. They suggested he stop with direct transmissions. Our position, the Democratic Party of Serbia and my personal one, is that direct television broadcasts should continue. When that is the case, we must try to get the sessions in order, and when it comes to what is said and when it comes to how it is spoken. This is one shot. The rules of procedure proposed are restrictive to some extent, but reflect the current situation. If the situation changes, we'll be in a position to sit down together and write a new Rules of Procedure. Let's make that effort. Another misunderstanding -- if I'm out of time, remind me, I want to say how many problems there are in misunderstandings -- when you say you're being denied the right to talk about Leskovec. When you talk about Leskovec: when you pass a law, what you will hear about Leskovec, about Leskovec is talked about elsewhere, in the Assembly of Leskovac Municipality, in the Government, in the ministries; Leskovac can never be a topic in the National Assembly. (President Natasha Micic: Time.) ) Leskovac can never be a topic in the National Assembly unless the Committee's special decision determines that. These are the misunderstandings. No one deprives the rights of the Members of the People to speak of these matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12646	Right on the line. He's got the word Alexander Wolfie. Branislav Ivkovic is also reporting for the replica. What are you talking about, Mr. Ivkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing Mrs. Micic sat in that place, so I got the right to a line. If Mr. Martian had sat down, I would never have been entitled to a replica. As for what Mr. Martian said, it's all wrapped up in a fine shoreland. Someone would say, "You see how a man speaks well, he's really right, it's just not good for you in there that's obstructing." Or they're doing it so I don't know who they're helping out of this congregation there. However, it is quite incorrect, completely incorrect. Falsely because the Serbian Radical Party participates in parliament's work. Mr. Martian probably overplayed or forgot that we were not involved in the work of the board, but because of some other things, because of the incorrectness of the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly. It is important that the citizens of Serbia know that. We do not participate because we had one, I would say, a concrete and correct agreement at the beginning of this assembly's call, when the Serbian Radical Party, given the number of people who voted for it, was to take place as vice-president of the National Assembly, without amending the Rules of Procedure and increasing the number of vice-presidential posts. After that, however, it went wild. The congregation majority have that possibility. She could vote no vice president from any of the parliamentary groups. But then there's no more of that kind of deal, nor can you talk about it. Secondly, we have nothing to discuss or cooperate with. We're political opponents. We can talk, not make a deal. We are political opponents who need to make different political views in this assembly. What you're doing here, it's a real obstruction. I know I'm going to have a hard time getting through this, because everyone, as parrots, is going to pass on what the government has said, only what the regime says, as Mr. Martian says. The obstruction is when you won't see, when you won't answer the fact that you insulted the MPs and said they didn't have heads or told them they weren't human, and then the National Assembly said that MPs didn't have heads, or that they didn't realize that they only had heads when they got headaches. They're not insults, it's all normal, but they're insults when they respond to the worst insults of the government. That is the essence and that is the problem of this parliament, that is the problem of this assembly: that the government learns to tolerate a sharp and rash opposition, one that will criticise it, and not what time to time to do it mildly, so that it is in something to praise. We don't want that. It's our job to criticize the government. The citizens chose us for it, not to praise it, and to court anyone, regardless of the sheik, regardless of all the pressures we've been put on. I ask you not to use the opportunity for a pay phone to transfer opposition MPs and make them guilty and responsible. Find those who'll make you a quorum. You have 176 MPs, if I'm not mistaken. Bring 126. Don't let us be to you, and every day we suffer obstruction from your side. Yesterday, one MP did not tell the truth to the end, in fact he did not say at all, it is our duty to identify ourselves at the entrance. So that's our obligation. Because of the public, the public knows. That's what we have to do. This is what all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have done, not what you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12648	How did you identify yourself, Mr. Ivkovic, when I didn't mention anyone? I just mentioned a group that aims at obstruction in the Assembly, and they recognized the radicals. He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12649	Ladies and gentlemen, all that is good for democracy and parliamentaryism in Serbia, for Serbian citizens, is also good for the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs. Therefore, the citizen who lives with his family in Leskovac, Subotica, Zajecar, Loznica and how he thinks and depends on the decisions made by this parliament, because the decisions of this Parliament define the area where the economy, every member of his family, is either a student, a worker or sick at a certain point. We, as the Socialist Party of Serbia, accepted the idea that a joint team of all parliamentary parties is working on certain improvements in the rules of procedure. And the promoter of this idea, President of the Martians, can confirm that our representatives were at both meetings. It is true that the representatives of a parliamentary group did not attend. But it is certain that the solutions that are given would have been much different, much more appropriate for the team to work, in which they would have been representatives of both the positional and the opposition parliamentary groups, in terms of freedom and democracy. Why did the Democratic Party of Serbia decide to take the initiative on its own to put, as a priority, everything the MP says after the pay phone, in order to cloud the essence of reducing the right of MPs in the time period of speech for a pay phone? Let them explain it to themselves. But it's not good for them either, it's not good for democracy or for parliamentaryism in the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you, in 1994, at a time when the Socialist Party of Serbia made up the majority in parliament, the rules of procedure that everyone in this assembly worked on, more or less, and the current positioning parties were then in opposition, and that Rules of Procedure was voted on. The rules of procedure were valid until February, until an extraordinary session, when Parliament's rights were first imposed. He was up to today's session. I think we've come up with a situation that might come out of harm's way. I propose that the president of the Republic Assembly, Mr. Marsican, may be invited again by the working team, with the same representatives, to call again representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, to suspend this session, not to spend taxpayers' money, and try to find a solution. We are for more efficient work. But we are not under the idea of more effective work literally abolishing the rights of the MPs to speak for this speaker, especially when it is known that this speaker is the only window of truth for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12650	Replica. He has the word Mr. Dejan Michael. Without wanting to participate in the debate, let me explain to you, Mr. Ivkovic: I fully agree. You said there was no deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12651	Certainly, for the Democratic Party of Serbia, there are much more important problems than changing the rules of procedure. This is the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, the problem of the future of the common state, the imposed conflicts and problems in Vojvodina, which open in one way that is not like the parties that are in Vojvodina, the fall in living standards and many other things. So there are a lot of problems that the DSS is facing, which it points to, and whose resolution it has insisted on, not only since it became a position, but also at the time of the opposition. This is our contribution to solving these problems. This is our way of increasing the possibility of these problems being solved in as short a time as possible and anyone who doesn't understand it can suspect that they have good intentions. I don't want to talk about what happened here, we want to talk about what's going to happen, and I'm sure this Rules of Procedure isn't perfect, like neither of the others we make will be perfect. I am almost certain that no Rules of Procedure in the Assembly will be a fruit of political parties' consensus, because there will always be some party who will comment and will not vote for it. Here I am not bidding which party it will be, can be only different from those which are now against this Rules of Procedure, but simply, something has to be done and we have to go some other way faster, just to solve some other and bigger problems for the citizens of Serbia. This has at one point been raised as a previous question, we look at it as such, and this will open the door to solve some more serious problems. The fact is, and the DSS will be ready, if there is a readiness among all the other presidents of parliamentary clubs and all the other parliamentary clubs, to sit down, to come up to the making of a new Rules of Procedure, which will be the result of the debate at one of the next meetings, whether it will be a spring session next year, but don't fall into that trap to deal with the rules of procedure, decisions on the making of rules, and all other things, and not to deal with the essence. This is the previous question, so that we can move faster into what is called raising the standard of living of citizens, and the DSS, if it's a sin that we want to raise the standard of living, which we want to enable citizens to live better, then we accept that this is a mistake we have made, but we don't think it's a mistake, but we think that this is a thing that the citizens have committed to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12652	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic (third call).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12653	Ladies and gentlemen, you're assuming, since I can't do the replication, that I've decided to spend my right - five minutes on a third call. But to stick to the agenda first. This is the Rules of Procedure adopted in November 1994, a businessman who allowed the MP to speak twice in ten minutes and that any member of any bill could be subject to an amendment and that he could talk about the amendment of each of his colleagues to this speaker. The rules of procedure were valid in Serbia's non-democratic, dictatorial, regimeal, red until February 2001. Then you came to power and brought to the extraordinary session of the Rules of Procedure which you lifted the right for MPs to discuss on the amendments of their colleagues. You have now proposed a right which, specifically, the MP of the SPS, the parliamentary group, with 370 minutes of the right to speak in the principle of a specific legislative project, comes down to 30 minutes, 43 seconds per MP. We can't get to the pay phone. So much for that. And now about Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina - dear gentlemen of the DSS, you are in a coalition with all the parliamentary parties in the DOS, and therefore you have brought power over everything, and Chanka, and the whole team, who wants to make a state in Serbia, and you have given this country a problem. But the SPS proposed to all of you, including the DSS, to hold an emergency session of the Republika Srpska Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija in early September and on registration issues. The only answer the Soviets gave us was to support this idea. There was no other parliamentary party anywhere. Please, and registration is the first stage of the electoral process, the one that registered, he recognised Hekerup's constitution, directly contrary to the Declaration, which we all here, in this assembly, unanimously brought. Have we brought the Declaration and the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija? You all voted, 250 MPs of all parties adopted it, and your leaders called for registration. You have already, according to Batić, decided to go and participate in the elections. Please, the SRS said it wouldn't go, and so did we. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12654	There is a word from MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12655	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was violated by the President of the Constitution Assembly, that is, the First Rules of Procedure, Article 28(1), and indent 4. Here it is literally said: "The president of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for by the Constitution. "In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, article 76 says: "The MP represents the citizens of the electoral unit in which he was elected. "Alinea 4 says: "The work of the National Assembly is well-timed and coordinated. "Mr. President just said that the formed working group did not work on time, did not prepare material on amending the Rules of Procedure. All political parties represented the task force. He himself admitted that he did not care for the coordinated work of the National Assembly, and he definitely did not do the work provided for by the Constitution, which he said, although he was a member of 76th explicit: "The MP represents the citizens of the electoral unit in which he was elected" - that the problems of Leskovec, Nis, or any other city should not be talked about after this speaker. As an MP from Nis, I ask that you, as MPs of the majority, give me the right to talk about Nis's problems behind this pay phone. Or, let me ask you -- how and what MP from the area where the Kolubara workers strike today will be able to explain -- what are the problems of the Kolubara workers, the same ones who supported you a year ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12656	According to the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to give an answer. It's a little harder to catch a DSS representative in breach of the Constitution, that's almost impossible. There's a problem. Now, why that's the problem -- the problem is that, let's say, you know that the 4 indent here refers to the care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly's working bodies. This committee that was formed is not the working body of the National Assembly, and it was not in the authority of the President of the Assembly to take care of its work. He called the first session, let's call it constitutional, and let the members continue their work, and that's that. And as for the electoral unit, I don't know what election units are, and what is the electoral law, but in any case, when it comes to the law, any law relating to all of Serbia, it doesn't apply to Novi Sad or Leskovac or Belgrade, and what kind of debate about Leskovac? So it's about the obligation to stick to the topic that's being discussed and nothing else. The word is Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I have to say that, as regards those amendments in the previous 1994 Rules of Procedure, 390 amendments have been submitted. It wasn't considered an obstruction of the opposition, I was in opposition. Some of our amendments have been accepted, although we did consider that rules of procedure restrictive. As an opposition MP in 1994 and 2001, I still think I'm capable of comparing those two Rules of Procedure. This one is literally criminal against the one we criticized, and we've been accepted if I'm not mistaken, 60 amendments. So, 60 amendments were accepted to our previous Rules of Procedure, of 390 as many as there were. We'll see how that goes and what happens now. As for Kosovo and Metohija and other topics, the SRS will not participate in the Kosovo and Metohija elections. We find that interesting one thing. Why everyone insists on who's from DOS, and in what way, whether or not they will, which party will participate or not. We got more votes than all together, even in the last elections where there was a general hack against radicals, we got more votes than everyone in Kosovo and Metohija together. And in many municipalities, we have won, such as Obilic and so on, Serbian municipalities of course. But what to do. Of course, we were not in favour of the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, as the only party in Serbia, and for this reason we will never accept the elections under occupation management. That's the point. Now I'd just like to say something about what's being imposed on the people that we're to blame for what's being discussed here. Here is the debate on the initiative and the DSS proposal, not the SRS, of something that should not be on the agenda because the situation in Kosovo and Metohija should be on the agenda, a crisis in Vojvodina caused by the DOS, a criminally difficult economic situation, to see why the price of electricity, the price of gasoline, chain of all other basic life supplies. But for the sake of truth and for the sake of the public of Serbia, for the sake of those who are able and the situation to watch us if they have electricity, we should say that none of these proposals have entered the assembly procedure. That, even, is sometimes said by Dragan Marscani, as president of the National Assembly. Besides the labour law and working relationships, we don't have any acts that we've got here to discuss, to talk about him. That is the essence and that is what Serbian citizens need to know. As for that, even though you broke the Rules of Procedure again and spoke as a representative of the DSS... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... From the seat of the National Assembly, I'll give you one example and I won't go any further. The President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia brutally ran over the Constitution in October of the month when he personally applied for membership in the United Nations, under Article 78(2). The Constitution of the SRJ. It can only be the federal parliament, or even the federal government, that we don't talk about how the huge consequences of such an act of renouncing the continuity are that we lost billions of dollars in our embassies, consulates, residences around the world. Here, I gave you an example, a concrete... (President: Mr. Wolf, four minutes, and it has nothing to do with what you've come forward for. It's not four minutes, it's three minutes and 45 seconds, and in the whole first part I was responding to what Mr. Ivkovic was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12658	Replica, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12659	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, last year, Serbia was moving along the civil war line, and that's what you wanted. We didn't let you. Serbia moved along the border, economically and each other. Serbian cities were blocked last year, remember, no roads could have been made. The will of the citizens has been annulled, which should be sacred for each of us in this country. For some other sanctity is something else - their personal will and their personal interest, and don't talk here about what happened last year at this time and who broke the Constitution and who did what. I don't think you have a right to do that. That right was denied to you by the citizens of December last year and they told you - enough of the violation of the Constitution, enough of the policy that you've been conducting. Ignoring someone who has returned to Serbia and Yugoslavia, faster than any other country after the blockade in international institutions and financial institutions, above all, which returns to Serbia and Yugoslavia, the image it had before you came to power, is at least, I will not use a harsh word shamefully. I would ask you to deal with this Parliament in the Rules of Procedure, not with everything that is not the Rules of Procedure, in order to justify the political position we have, or opposition to the changes we need to make in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12660	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12661	I'm surprised that my predecessor, who spoke in the most offensive way about his colleagues in the National Assembly, did not even say that they wanted bloodshed and civil war. I ask the question - who wanted it and what, who was undoing the will of the citizens, when we were first, even though our election results were... (Dejan Michael, from the place: you were called. Wait, you came out on my line and now you say it again because you called yourself. I tell you men, Mr. Michael, to come out on the line. You go out and you talk like someone who can never talk to anyone, but I was, you know, telling someone on Mars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12662	You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, not by the law of replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12663	It's about Article 99, it's about...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12664	Then explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not the replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12665	That is what I am telling you, therefore, the Rules of Procedure have been broken in that you have not responded, and he has offended the messengers of the people who have not participated in it, because if it had not been for our results, you would not have had the record, because we have covered everything, and many of yours have not, so we have given these records. Don't make it up, and when you don't have a concrete solution to say that Kostunica didn't break the constitution, then you say, you stop the changes. Yeah, I'm an opponent of the revolution, I'm opposed to these changes of yours, and we all...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12666	You're re-entering the replica, please finish. You have explained the violation of the Rules of Procedure and do not enter the replicas, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12667	Oh, man, so let me finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12668	It's not real...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12669	Well, a minute and 30, you don't let me talk about what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12670	It's about the subject, not the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12671	Is this about the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12672	You cannot abuse the right to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12673	I know, it bothers you every time you're black on white to prove...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12674	I mind your insolence that you abuse the right to report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12675	Your insolence and your insolence exceed all limits. Such insolence has not been seen from this pay phone, and you are looking to throw me out, as no MP of the SRS can stand. Because Kostunica violates the Constitution and what his wife writes to him and you are rude, so you think you can express yourself, you can speak to Michael and Kostunica, and you will not speak to me, and you will not speak to anyone in the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12676	There, they still bring the end. It was an idea. The word comes from MP Branko Ruzic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12677	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is very indicative that by who knows which time we are here, we are getting a proposal for an act that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that is the legalism that you are publicly calling upon, and the only thing you seem to be able to do is break the Constitution. See, of course I don't have to mention it, 'cause the citizens know exactly what happened back then. But I must mention the members of the Constitution who have been violated by this proposal of Rules of Procedure: 11, 23, 44, 45, 46, 77 and 93. Thus, a total of 7 members of the Constitution for one Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. First of all, this kind of rulebook is rigid, restrictive, anti-democracy. It became clear to everyone that it was a bad solution, given that the president of the National Assembly had also come out to explain and justify such a proposal by the Rules of Procedure. Compared to the 1994 Rules of Procedure, which is for these two Rules of Procedure, this is the second one you've been bringing now since we've established ourselves, was an axia of democracy. I must say, this Rules of Procedure has only passed through democracy, according to its solutions. Some of the solutions are very restrictive, for example, that the parliamentary group has 30 minutes to use the agenda point and that we should practically deal with the delegate system, to delegate our MPs or a group of MPs to talk about a particular topic. Your justification that the law applies throughout Serbia, since this assembly, which we had in the last session, is being elected by both judges and prosecutors. Of course, that MP who comes from a certain place will be most interested in talking about this particular solution. The famous budget of Minister Djelic also deals with some divisions, as far as the funds are concerned, so someone who comes from Nis will talk about Nis, from Novi Sad about Novi Sad, and we won't be able to talk about all of Serbia. So these things don't stand. I do not understand by which methodology you have determined that the total time of the debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is five hours. I don't even know where you found it in parliamentary practice. Also, Article 8 states that only the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, can talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Why? Are other MPs incapable of talking about it? Maybe some of yours are. With us, the Socialists, we're all capable of talking. Also, fines, which represent another of your inventive ways to silence the opposition, will not pass, since the Socialists will certainly not shut up, but the principle and application of such a proposal and such a solution speaks of the restrictions of this Rules of Procedure. Also, Article 13: "People's MPs, who are members of the same parliamentary group, can only submit one amendment to one member of the bill." What reason is that? So that 1994 Rules of Procedure wasn't nearly that restrictive. I will read to you what the current authorities have said about the Rules of Procedure, and above all the current president of the SRJ, who has said about the Rules of Procedure (which, you say, was from the time of the authoritarian and dictatorial regime of Slobodan Milosevic), said: "The new text is the product of the ruling coalition, it was made illegal, because it sought to eliminate most MPs from the work of parliament. Everything says that Serbia is returning to one-sided, and this parliament only serves as a fig leaf for democracy." (President: Time. ) I have to note that this very rules of procedure is the result of the work of one party. One party suggested it. I think you should think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12678	The word has a People's MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Stevan Z. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my humble opinion, this is not the time in which we should deal with amendments to the Rules of Procedure, whether it's about restrictive changes or some of which, in terms of the rights of MPs, would go in terms of their expansion. So I can't help but feel that this is nothing but a distraction from the current problems that plague all of Serbia and the whole of Yugoslavia. I don't want to be too sensitive, but at a time when the national level doesn't know whether Serbs should go to the elections in Cosmet, at a time when they don't know what they're going to be like in the Federation, at a time when the standard is extremely low, at a time when there's such disgusting things happening in health, that it's really disgusting for me to mention here that I can inform myself from the field, at a time when your DOS is falling apart, what we found to discuss -- that we're discussing how the MPs of the opposition, those who are now opposition or those who are in the near future will be opposition, should disable or reduce their ability to speak and bring up their opinions. Really, I don't think that's the time right now. But there's one proverb that says, "Give him power to hear his voice." I will remind you, by who knows which time, but it is not burned, of what the president of the SRJ and the party who is the bearer of such a text of amendments to the Rules of Procedure said in 1994 about reducing the rights of MPs then, in that way, to say to the non-democratic basis, that this text, which we are now changing: "A product of the ruling coalition, made illegal, because it sought to eliminate most MPs from the work of parliament. Everything says that Serbia is returning to one-sided, and this parliament only serves as a fig leaf for democracy." God, for this democracy of yours, it would take something else. However, it is obvious that there is a discrepancy over democracy between the DSS parliamentary group and what its president is saying, either he used to say, or he evaluated and changed his mind in the meantime. So the voice we've been listening to from your side is such that it's been making some ears hurt for a year. However, I am happy that this amendment to the Rules of Procedure comes precisely from members of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, more specifically the Democratic Party of Serbia, because it is just talking about the promoter, as every act here in the Assembly, all of what we are doing, what we are talking about, the way we act is talking about ourselves. So, declaratively advocate democracy, and essentially reducing the rights of MPs, is not democratic. Generally, I am not against adopting European solutions, solutions from European parliaments and their rules of procedure, nor against harmonising Serbian law or law with those who rule in Europe. However, why only solutions restricting the rights of MPs, in this particular case? Why just solutions that will bring democracy to a lower level, when we've already adopted some solutions that have brought our economy down, not to the point of saying, to the board? Why don't we talk, say, about the adoption of a law prohibiting the financing of foreign parties? In that case, according to Madlen Albright, the 77 million U.S. dollars they gave last year, would be a valid basis for something that would be applicable in the judiciary. I don't want to talk too much about legalism and respect for the Constitution, which you have all said, how at the beginning of your term when you broke the provisions on joining the United Nations, and what you said on Vidovdan, when you began to extradite Serbian citizens to the International Court in The Hague, despite the provisions of the Constitution. So much for the Constitution. How much you care about him are also speaking these provisions that violate the guaranteed right of MPs to represent their electoral units and their cities and the environments from which they come. The temporary nature of these amendments to the Rules of Procedures is nothing other than the temporary abolition of democracy. (President - Gordana Komic: 5.20 minutes. () Why end democracy temporarily? If you care about democracy rising to one higher level, extend the rights of MPs. I don't understand why you should be afraid of speech or reduce time by MP groups. Also, I do not agree with the right of MPs to sit and vote, because why, as an MP from Piroth or from Piroth County, I do not say that there are two municipalities (in Dimitrovgrad and Bela Palanca), profits on the lowest scale in Serbia, and why I, as an MP from that environment, do not comment on what impact the laws will have on the very environments from which I should draw information. Thank you very much. I think the best proposal is that this proposal or decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure be withdrawn and that the working group, which is well-formed for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12680	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Z. Guduric, and after that, MP Milos Nesovic. National MP Stevan G. Guduric, before moving on to his presentation, seeks to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to establish the quorum, at the request of Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12681	I'm taking a 15-minute break. [[After a break.]] I'm taking a break until 1:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12683	Ladies and gentlemen, please set up a quorum to insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I give my word to the People's MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today and these days, we will talk about the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which proudly proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, and should have been ashamed and embarrassed to have written and signed something like this. You may not be ashamed, but that's what it says about you. Because, how many months ago, with this Article 3 you proposed, you voted for a very different time. Where did that suddenly turn into your head, and now you think that by 6:00 p.m., when you were climbing out of the stained veins to make it 19.30 p.m. They were sitting the same people, maybe the three of you changed in the meantime. You wrote, among other things, in Article 9: "The speaker cannot read the written text." But first you have to teach some ministers not to read in writing. Some ministers showed them the days, but only written. As soon as they dared to enter some different beautiful turns out to be a disgrace and shame to Serbia because the minister can't even talk, just something to read. Not to mention names, they recognize themselves, and that's no problem at all. The main argument as to why the new rules of procedure occurred, I expect some others to draw up some new proposals from some new rules of procedure, as this is not the majority of the DOS and the DOS will then put some of its own rules of procedure. I'm certainly not any dumber than you are, Vesic. It is said that the work of parliament is more effective, and I do not know what has not ended in this House as the expert government has proposed. I can't confuse me any smarter than you. And Vesic is the theme. Even smarter ones can't help but be confused, and when it comes to the obstruction of parliament, you're here to resist obstruction, and from 12:00 to 13.30 a.m., they can't pick you up. There was a suggestion here that security might be bringing you in. It's easier to bring out some opposition than to put you in position. It's a much bigger job and a lot more weight to be put in. Can I have a word with Mr. Vesic, if he's having sex with me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12685	You're saying what's the subject, so it'll be all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12686	I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure, and you don't warn Vesic. The other would already get two warnings and threaten to bring it out. When you were an opposition, there are those who will be recognized, you spoke the same way as the obstruction, the session takes place, and Mr Popovic was as long as parliaments used to last and how long they are now. He just didn't say that you only came to the register at the time and suggested amendments, and you didn't sit in the session. Now that's about the same thing. True, now sit down, and then go to the cashier's. The Democratic Party of Serbia may also propose colhos after they have proposed collective MPs. Turns out the MP is a collective entity, not an individual, or maybe you'll introduce some correspondence, as a letter member of the Academy of Sciences and so on. Anything from you is possible, except a smart proposal. There's a brightest colleague who said that this is in a collision with the Constitution, with a dozen members, maybe this was made according to this new constitution, which is written by the woman of the presidency, or as it's now called, collectively, and then she's the presidency and she's not the president. Probably a new one. We've had statements here and elsewhere, and I don't know if Mr. Martian is in office as president of the Assembly or vice president of the party, that he's a temporary Rules of Procedure, so as soon as we're valid, honest and good, we don't have to... (President: Time. I've been talking for at least six minutes like you the first day, and your colleague didn't warn you until the end of the sixth minute. You of DOS can introduce what you are, not to be called MPs, but listeners of the government, because I have already said that the government has chosen you, you have not chosen the Government, because this proposal cannot be given by amendment MPs, but the expert government by law of three members gives itself three amendments, and that is fine. Whoever suggests it's probably okay. That interpretation, as suggested, the government will decide for itself who will ask her something, and then it will answer. That's how you predicted in this Rules of Procedure, and probably this MP wouldn't have been like this if someone had been notified in time, but he wasn't informed again in time, so he went through this situation. We'll talk a lot more these days, even to Mr. Vesic, who can get a lot in his head.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12687	Replica, Mr. Vesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12688	In order for everyone to hear why Mr. Guduric got excited, I just mentioned that he would return the Mercedes. Namely, Carina donated and the SPS Beocina got "Mercedes", which is normally state-owned, and this Mercedes took Stevan G. Guduric. Drive it, even though Carina's looking for it, she doesn't return the Mercedes. I was just asking him to return what belonged to the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12689	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic, followed by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12690	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity from this pay phone to very often hear the MPs of the parliamentary majority of DOS, to remind us of the 24th of September, on October 5th, on December 23rd, and I think it's clear to all of us. It is clear to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that these were the days when the citizens of the Republic of Serbia entrusted the DoS to the DOS coalition. Of course, there have also been speeches by DOS MPs, who have been sent to MPs of opposition parties, that we have been scolded, cursed, criticised, threatened, etc., but I think that this time has passed and I understand their position to change something in the Assembly, to introduce order, to make Skuština more efficient, more up-to-date, all in the knowledge of increasing one quality, I would say both quantitatively and qualitatively in the Assembly. However, I believe that the proposed solutions do not lead to that goal, and I am convinced of that. In my neighborhood they say hit evil that's worse. It would be much better if you found another method model. I would not suggest it here right now, but, please, according to Article 4 of the proposal of the act, to the rapporteur, to the MP who excluded his opinion, to the head of the parliamentary group, the time has been shortened to explain this document, although the document, or one legislative project, cannot be normed by the time in which it can be brought, and it is not necessary to norm, and as far as I could see, the MP, or 30 minutes of the parliamentary group, that is, to take the right to speak. I will take an example of a 30-minute SPS parliamentary group. If we share that time in proportion to the number of MPs, we'll get 43 minutes and 32 seconds. Please, I will not allow myself, and no one needs it from any other MPs, to now get the rights of the heads of the parliamentary groups and the need of Mr Banet Ivkovic to ask me to speak. I think I'm a parliamentary MP, that the Parliament has its own president, vice president and they should practically decide and give a word to the MPs, say, if they find something appropriate and need to say something. I also cannot understand that the Rules of Procedure can only be used by the head of the parliamentary group. Please, be that boss and the smartest, be he in the greatest physical and intellectual condition, he can't keep track of eight hours of congregation work, especially in our terms. That right does not need and cannot be taken away from the other MPs. Contrary to the proposal not to read on the pay phone, I would suggest that no MP should come out without having a concept to read, not to wander outside the agenda, etc. These are the things that will lead this congregation to an even more unfavorable position regarding its functioning and work. I would like to ask the Proposer to withdraw this proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, to find other criteria, and for that there are many ways, and not to take away the words of the Members, etc. I wouldn't talk about other things. Things are completely clear. I just feel like I can't get a word in this assembly. If I should ask Zarko Obradovic to beg Banet Ivkovic or any other head of parliament groups, or if I have to write an amendment, there are things where people in the parliamentary group can't agree on the amendments, and if we have to agree on any amendments, the legal projects will be such that they won't look anything like anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12691	The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is simply amazing that, after a month of great heat and noise in the media, made by the Democratic Party of Serbia, there is a crime in the government of the Republic of Serbia, in which they are involved, is now on the agenda of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's just amazing, in a situation where Serbian citizens have reached the lower threshold of social endurance, that this is exactly what we have on the agenda, but ultimately, the DSS obviously does not know what to do in the Republic of Serbia, it has done exactly what it is. The biggest crime that can happen is just stealing the electoral will of citizens, and that's what many MPs felt on their backs. This new DOS government is acting exactly the same as it was before, which can be seen in Black grass, where election materials have all but SRS candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12693	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12694	I'm absolutely sticking to the agenda. I'm talking about the problems that are standing and how the election material has arrived, but in the end, that's your attitude. I really don't understand the need for restrictive measures of indemocratic behavior, as well as a high degree of passion. What is certain is inadmissible that the President of the Assembly has a discretionary right that he uses according to his intent. In what way he uses it, both Parliament Speaker and his assistant, Natasa Micic, we all saw it, we have witnessed it, on the case of Mr Steve Kesjejic. Here there is a report of a specialist doctor (in his hands holding this material) where, besides the powerful escoriations, edema, next to Angina pectoris, besides stenocardia, you can notice that doctors have noted and contusio capitis, contusio brachialis et cubiti bilateralis....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12695	Mr. Cvetanović, we are not at the medical college, at the doctor's consulate, but we are discussing the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12696	We're not, Mr. President, but this is a corpus delict, which is a fracture of Mr. Steve Keseiæ, not to mention the elimination of s-t segments, drains of AVL and V1, so it's just your behavior and your colleagues. What your proposal lacks are, above all, photographs of the people you already want to punish in the beginning, before the new Rules of Procedure comes into force. What is obvious is that this Rules of Procedure significantly endangers the integrity of the MPs and their individuality. It endangers the rights of the MPs to speak and to propose amendments. The MP has the right to submit a bill and it is simply amazing that he does not have the right to submit an amendment. The proposed legalist party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, headed by a passive and uninformed Mr Kostunica, no longer recognises the term -- a MP, but introduces a new term -- a member of the parliamentary group, which is against the constitution. The Democratic Party of Serbia, I must give them recognition, is generous because it gives the opportunity for 30 minutes to be enough to discuss the bill to the parliamentary group and that it must be used. What is evident to be lacking in this Rules of Procedure is equality between the rights of MPs, because the rights of MPs are both formally and substantially compromised. The question arises, "What about the penalties of Members who do not attend meetings or do not participate in the work?" The MP has the possibility of objecting if the speaker of the assembly gives him a warning, but he must not object to the warning, although it is possible that he did not deserve it. That is why my advice to Mr Marsican is to make sure that there are mostly no more than 2/3 of elected MPs in the Assembly. So it's obvious that they're going to change and change how they're supposed to be, but above all, change in the behavior of the chairman. As the time ends, I will not invite all citizens of Serbia to participate in a rally in Novi Sad tomorrow, but I will invite all citizens to participate in a protest rally in Prokuplje next Friday, October 12th. Thank you very, very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12697	The word has a folk MP, Bora Stanimirovic, and then Pal Shandor (not there), then Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12698	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we changed this Rules of Procedure about the work of the Assembly half a year ago. Then we claimed he was quite repressive, and then we compared him to the one that was adopted in 1994. He was far more democratic and gave much greater rights to the MPs. However, we accepted it with one argument - that if we adopted such a Rules of Procedure, we would have much more effective work, that we would avoid obstruction and that we would be able to pass some system laws that had been prepared. But it happened that after half a year, we brought an even more depressing Rules of Procedure about work, but with the same explanation. We claim to be adopting it precisely because of an obstruction of the opposition that interferes with many system laws being passed. I would just ask in which parliament in Europe the opposition is constructive, or which system law came into assembly procedure and if we had adopted it, except for the labour law that was delivered to the MPs the other day. Therefore, this is not the reason for the adoption of such a Rules of Procedure, but another reason, which is to prevent the opposition from working, i.e. to represent the citizens who chose it. Secondly, it practically turns out, if we now speak through our representatives, out of 250 MPs will be able to speak about 25. Everyone else will not represent or indirectly represent the citizens, because they will only vote or be robots, who will execute what is required. It turns out as the people say: my friend is my friend, too. This will turn out to be my envoy and my envoy. We won't be able to decide except through our representatives. A few days ago, one of the MPs said that it was precisely the reason for the discussion of an opposition MP -- although he had previously thought about whether to vote for the Rules of Procedure -- to vote for the Rules of Procedure, because the MP had inappropriately discussed it. Are we just gonna change our rules of procedure for one man? Can't that be solved any other way? You know, Nero burned Rome to get the inspiration to write songs. It was in the old century. Some burned down the Federal Parliament on October 5th last year to get inspiration to write something about democracy. What democracy is that now? What have we changed? Every day new punishment, every day new warnings, every day threatens and executes repressions that nothing can help us in that democracy. We, however, have been promised by the President of the Assembly, yesterday or the day before yesterday, that I do not remember exactly, that this is only temporary, that we will get one Rules of Procedure that will be appropriate to this Parliament. I don't think he's protecting us anymore, and we're not bringing in the Rules of Procedures, because he's going to turn out to be that Roman army leader who, when he lost a lot of soldiers, said, "After this battle, I'm going to lose my army. "I think Mr. Martian could say that, after this Rules of Procedure, he would be left without the MPs, perhaps even without the Assembly. In particular, when it comes to interpretation, it is absurd that, for a change of government, for a change of ministers, we apply with 20 signatures of MPs, and for interpretation, for some response from some government official, who may not be that important, it takes 50, and now I hear 82. I think it's unsustainable. When it comes to punishment, do not punish the Messengers of the people twice. First warning, that's already punishment. Second warning, that's off. First warning, 20%. Second warning, 50%. Turns out you get two notices, and you pay three.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12699	He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic. After him, if you agree to continue until 2.30 p.m., Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is certain that during the past period, during the work of the new National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, obstruction, destruction, non-discipline, waste of time, indifference, insufficient efficiency, etc. I am sorry that this Rules of Procedure sanctions the work of all MPs and all MPs. This proposal is restrictive. I'm sorry that it can't apply to just one MP group that deserves it fat. In the last term, the Rules of Procedure has not been changed. Did they follow the rules of procedure? No, they're not. When there was an extra amendment and an extra bill, it threw Tomic nicely into the basket, it was not discussed and - the finished thing. They haven't changed their rules of procedure, but they haven't even implemented it. More than 600 amendments have come to this draft Rules of Procedure. This data itself gives the proponent the right to try to improve the efficiency of this Parliament, because we have begun, according to the people, to beat up empty straw. There are strange amendments here. I will immediately tell you that there has been no theory in the past Rules of Procedure or under any ordinary law in this House, that some MP is calling his supporters and his constituents for a rally. It's been done ten times these days. That information itself speaks of us being different from the last call. So we didn't sanction what was sanctioned in that disfellowshipping session. There are a lot of strange amendments here. One MP has proposed an education of the opposition's destruction committee. They had that board. Yesterday was October 3rd. Two years ago, on October 3rd, in order to liquidate the one-position leader, the former government killed four people. So they had that board. They know very well how this board worked. This amendment, of course, will not pass. It is our honor not to pass such an amendment, which requires the formation of a committee to destroy the opposition. They had it. We certainly won't have it. Not only won't we have it, but those funds don't come to mind. There are, too, more strange amendments. For example, one suggested a former minister of justice. It suggests we set up a panel for the production and distribution of intoxicating drugs, cigars, cigarillos and whiskey. And that board had one. In the bank vault, I think, we found several hundred kilos of drugs. You had that board. We can't have him. What I agree with is that MPs are not allowed to read their presentations, I just don't know if it will apply to others, and I also support fines for MPs, although I don't know how legal it is, but I need to find a model to regrow us in my pocket for every indifference. It is certain that I will be the first to be subject to that punishment. But that's what I support. I support the privatisation committee. What concerns me is the restriction in the work of the MPs. Political parties are only proposing in the election of MPs. The work of the National Assembly must not be reduced to the work of parliamentary groups. We are representatives of the citizens. MP groups are set up on the principle of volunteering. We can, but we don't have to be members of the parliamentary groups. It cannot be written in amendments to the Rules of Procedure that only three MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups can receive a word. What if we all get out of the parliamentary groups? It'll only say three. We can't accept that part that easily. I doubt the correctness of that. However, legalism tells us to vote against this proposal. Practice tells us to vote for this proposal. If this proposal sanctioned the conduct of only one parliamentary group, and it's known which one I mean, we would accept this. Among these two dilemmas, most likely -- there are good amendments, which can be improved, to increase the rights of MPs -- if these amendments are not adopted, we will most likely abstain. We'll accept the amendment to release the Black Cat into the Assembly! It's the only way to get rid of certain MPs. [[Alexander Vukic seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12701	So don't mention the former regime, there was no direct mention, for a wonderful miracle, the amendment was mentioned, the text of the amendment. Well, you'll get your word on the amendment, yes, but he didn't mention your name, just the amendment. So, where do you have that in the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Jojic is mentioned by function and has every right to report for the replica. He's not answering. It does not matter, but it is mentioned by function, according to the Rules of Procedure, it has the right, when mentioned by name or function, to report. You're looking for a replica on the former regime, like JUL, like the SPS, like what? So don't put it into practice, people. He has the word MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12702	My fellow MPs, the president decides who he gives his word to. My fellow Members, I wish, however, when some qualifications are given, the Socialists are constantly mentioned, which is logical in relation to the fact that they organized for ten years, and please, the Socialists are the personification of the former regime, we are not running away from it, anything at all. But I have to protest the abuse committed by a previous fellow MP when he said that the former government had killed four men, that she had killed people. Please, we are also, as a government then, and even now, as an opposition, asking to determine who committed this crime, to be guilty of punishment. As a fellow Messenger, I draw your attention to what you say. We, the Socialists, would never allow ourselves to say that the existing government killed 12 people during this year, for which no one else can be found who killed them, but we are asking that the perpetrators of punishment, and we do not tie it to the existing government. The authorities need to do their job and please stay away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12703	He's got the word, Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, may I have your attention, please? So, I have submitted an amendment on the establishment of the opposition's destruction committee. I said that and I asked for it, and I wrote it myself, and it wasn't someone else's lecture on my behalf, and I wrote it, and I think it would fit the most with the rules of procedure that it's brought. And, it's not a joke, it's not something that would be inappropriate and untasteful, but I think it suits everything that's going on in the National Assembly, and especially what's going to happen if this kind of motion is adopted. Why does such an amendment, and many don't know it, so they think they're particularly bright and smart, like -- we're criticizing some, because they're unsatisfactory amendments. Don't worry, we'll go out on all these amendments and defend them. This amendment also makes sense, because it completely demystifies the essence of the government's desire to suppress the opposition in parliament, to destroy it without delay, which can be seen by behaviour and past this, and far from this parliament, far from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the murders are concerned, I didn't realize it as if it were relevant to us, but I'll just take the opportunity to say that if you have evidence for anyone, for any murder, go out and say it. I have to say that for a while I've listened and suffered all sorts of things, because all and all things have been said, and even a counselor to the President of the Republic, on certain televisions, incredible nonsense. If he killed someone somewhere, arrest him immediately. There's no one to look after him. But let's wait and see who's responsible for that murder. I'm just saying that around that murder, four people in Ibarska will still be broken by many spears, and you'll only see who's really behind that murder, which is becoming known by both the family and members of that party, the SCI, and you'll just see it, and then you'll be amazed at the many details, which I'm guessing some of them here, in this room, haven't heard. There are those who are well-informed, who know it and how they know it, but there are those who do not yet know it, so they will be much surprised. But don't accuse people here of the most difficult things possible, without having any proof of that, that you have no moral right to do it. Don't tell anyone in this room that he's a murderer, you can say that we're elephants, monkeys (that's what we've heard before, here and see, thank God) - it wouldn't be a big deal. That's funny to you, interesting, that's nice to you, and it bothers you when I want to go to a pay phone to replicate, to say a few normal words and my opinion that will just stand up to you. That's what bothers you, but that's why it's wonderful and wonderful for you when you can do the worst and the most difficult insults to bring out without being reciprocated. So, as for what you had in your previous term, I don't remember, Mr. Risticevic, that you were ever excluded, even though we were never satisfied with the way the assembly sessions were conducted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12705	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12706	Dear fellow Members, the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure have been said a lot, and I will only remind myself that we had amendments to the Rules of Procedure a few months ago and that it was then concluded that a common body, which will work on the innovation and modernisation of this Rules of Procedure, was formed. However, the solutions offered by the DSS, as proposing these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, do not give these innovations, but provide more restrictive solutions, rather than are foreseen by the earlier Rules of Procedure and the earlier Rules of Procedures. I'll just try to remind you what they are in '94. Some of the MPs, who are here, or in current power, have said about the 1994 Rules of Procedure. The new Rules of Procedure will not contribute more effectively to parliament's work, but to those who run this country without anyone's knowledge, or, the word will not be able to be stopped. "According to the new rules of procedure, MPs will be able mainly to remain silent, and only to speak extremely. They will be treated as prisoners, and the president of parliament will be the warden of the prison." (Dr. Vladan Batic) "The new text is a product of the ruling coalition, made illegal, because it sought to eliminate most MPs from parliament's ranks, everything says that Serbia is returning to one-party, and this parliament serves as a fig leaf for democracy," (Dr Vojislav Kostunica). "Discusion should not be limited, and I find it incomprehensible to fear the congregation's majority from discussion" (Pal Shandor). That was said in 1994, November of the month, November 17th, if I'm not mistaken. At that time, it was discussed the extremely restrictive Rules of Procedure, which gave the right to speak twice in ten minutes, which gave the right to again, when the discussion was exhausted, the MP who had the right to speak once more. He gave every MP the right to submit an amendment to any proposed act, or member of the law, to the parliamentary groups, or to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, to appear on several occasions. Here they give a mathematical budget as much as it once was, and how much of this right is now, at five o'clock, and these supplementary times only for presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups. I think that this illustration alone speaks enough of the fact that this Rules of Procedure is far more restrictive than all the rules of procedure so far, and we are advocacy with democratic change, and let's look forward to allowing more democracy in parliament, more democracy in life at all, which cannot stand from this proposal for a decision. There's a part here that talks about interpelation, one positive act in this new article, but it's also being thrown into its opposite. The proposal is for the DSS parliamentary group to be able to submit 50 MPs. The amendments that have arrived and which I have been able to read show that it is proposed to amend that member and introduce 84 MPs, or 1/3 of the total number of MPs, which completely mocks this institution. If it is necessary to submit 1/3, and we know that the total of opposition MPs in this House are 76, then not all opposition MPs can submit a proposal in the interpretation. I think it is quite illogical, as is illogical, and it has already been said here, that 20 MPs have the right to ask a question of trust to the government without having the right to interpretation. I think that this amendment has cast out its opposite and that, in practice, only most people can ask the question of impelation. The issue of interpretation is primarily the question of the opposition, not the majority who holds the government, who should control the government, and who decides on the government. Therefore, I think this proposed solution is not good to the end, although the very idea of interpretation is quite correct. (President: Time. This is where we talk about it, I'm finishing up, Mr. President, I think we've set time for five minutes, that's true, but they've all been over five minutes, and so have you. What is in this proposal, and what needs to be seen in its application, is that MPs refer to the work of the board, to accomplish there what they cannot in the congregation do. I don't think it's a bad idea, but it's impossible to make it happen. We don't have any notices when which committee, at what time, and when it is considering the materials that are arriving for the board's session. The Rules of Procedure should then provide that all MPs should be informed of all committee meetings, so that they can then take active part in the work of those committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12707	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12708	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, here we have entered the third day of the debate on the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a request for the same to be considered and adopted by an urgent procedure. This proposal was submitted by the DSS political party, with one explanation that the most urgent thing in this state of Serbia is to regulate the work of the Serbian Parliament. I do not agree with this, and I think that many of the issues that were to come to the agenda before this, above all, are the problems of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the activity of the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre, as well as the formation of some coalitions that will go to the upcoming elections, and thus give integrity to one occupational authority, the villains who will effectively exercise their right to the consent of Serbs, which is the worst and most difficult at the moment. There are many other problems besides this problem, but I think this is a priority and it should have been on the agenda. What you're seeing right now is that there's a lot of talk here that the opposition is obstructing and I'm saying that the opposition is just failing to perform a good obstruction but that the government itself, the DOS majority, is doing its obstruction. How? By proposing one legal act and then revoking the Thai Act, and proposing another act of law, including the Thai Act, repeals, it proposes a third and thus obstructs, i.e. the dizziness of our MPs. Let us remember that the amendments and additions of this Rules of Procedure were adopted already in March of the month, so we had another amendment and addition, and now in October we have, as announced, some provisional Rules of Procedure, meaning they are already preparing for a new item of the agenda, the next, in a few months, probably re-changes and additions of the Rules of Procedure. What's normal is taking away the Parliament's time, it's that the proposer himself is unserious, that he should have done what this very congregation coalition was supposed to do, and they say that no letter on paper was put on paper. This is insecure, and this is exactly the MP of the DOS majority, why they did not prepare this thoroughly, so that ten times in one term we would not discuss the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What is being imposed through the reading of this Rules of Procedure is that the Rules of Procedure are rigorous, restrictive, that it reduces powers and is contrary to all the legal norms, and the Constitution itself by reducing the rights of MPs. If we go back a little bit, we should be aware it's only possible that these proposals come from the DOS majority. Why? Because we had initially, in addition to a package of tax laws that only burdened the citizens of Serbia, the Serbian government's decision to condition Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, both outside Kosovo and Metohija, to get into registration, so it is a normal consequence of the government's work, the work of DOS and such a restrictive proposal by the Rules of Procedure that are being denied the rights. Why should we MPs be something above citizens, if citizens can condition themselves, if they can be burdened, if their rights can be reduced. I think it's normal for this DOS government to come up with a proposal from the Rules of Procedure that will reduce the rights of MPs. What I think is, let me say, and stupidly, that's standardizing the working time of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What I'm saying is that we're not in one machine shop, in an equator where it's possible to standardize working hours. Yet this is a parliament, where it is impossible to standardise working time and determine how much anyone will speak, what he will say, how he will speak in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, one move has been made to introduce it as some newspaper, some apparent interpretation, however, that apparent interpretation is contrary to what should be done as a function, especially if you look at Article 200z, where you say an interpretation search can end by taking a stand on the issue of an open interpretation or voting on the next item of the agenda, which DOS majority will always do, so this concept of interpretation is just fiction, here just standing on paper. From all of this, we're moving from one democratic creation to one dictatorial creation. In the end, I would like to invite all citizens to the SRS rally tomorrow at 15.00 hours, where Serbian radicals will try to explain even more to citizens what the current government is in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12709	You didn't say where, should I say? In Novi Sad, all the eager Serbian Radical parties will come tomorrow at 15.00 hours. The word has the People's MP Predrag Mijailovic, and after that, the MP of the people... Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from the town of Kvorum? I don't think so, there is. Please confirm the quorum. We're still working at 4:00, I'm really asking you to do it at 4:00. [[After a break.]] I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12711	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for two days and the third day, we have been discussing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In one we all agree, which is that this assembly has a legislative role, then it has a role to control the executive power, i.e. Government. At the same time, we agree that this troubled country, after 10 years of collapse, is necessary to implement reforms. Only through reform can we come to the progress and improvement of this people. To achieve reform, it is necessary to pass many legal acts, because only reforms can be implemented in a legal and legitimate manner through legal acts, and we must do so here in the Assembly. Without the law, there's no reform. Simply, for example, we passed the Privatisation Act, one of the system laws, but that law must be followed by other laws, such as the law on banking and the judiciary. That's why there's no investment in this country, no progress, no improvement. It's just that no one wants to invest in this country where they don't even have legal guarantees. Anyone who does not wish well for this country, he does not want reforms to be completed, and as I have already said, reforms cannot be implemented without the adoption of new laws. If we look at how many laws we need to complete the reforms, we need about 200 legal acts. If we were to pass one law a day, we would need 200 days. And if we were to work on the old system, as we have done so far, 10 and 15 days in order to adopt some legal act (and for this Rules of Procedure, it would probably take 15 or 20 days), so that Serbia could reach reform laws and start reforms, it would take three to four years. Anyone who slows down reforms and slows down the passing of these laws is against his own people. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which is why the Democratic Party of Serbia, as a strong and responsible party, has initiated a change in the rules of procedure so that conditions can be created in this assembly to pass these reform laws. Someone's gonna say, "Why didn't she consult the others?" Gentlemen of Parliament, this is where the president of the National Assembly said that in May of the month he invited all the parliamentary groups to participate, and they did not want to. Why, let them wonder. That's why the DSS had an obligation and has an obligation to create a condition for normal and efficient work in this assembly. Many MPs say the rules of procedure will not be democratic. I would remind you that this Rules of Procedure, for the first time since 1945, introduces an interpletion institution, which means that a 50-seat parliamentary group may call for the government's responsibility. Someone's gonna say it's a big number. It is not a large number, because it must also be a serious institution, because we already know how to abuse this institution, as so far the rules of procedure have been abused. Had it not been for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, there would have been no proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure today. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we provide conditions for work, then it is the government's move to send laws here every day. If the government doesn't do it, it's a matter of government responsibility. Then we will demand the responsibility of the government. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we make reforms and when the Serbian people are better, then there will come a time when we will be able to discuss certain legal acts for hours, days and years. Then the Serbian public won't mind us. (President: Time. The only way to explain democracy is to explain not only through empty speeches, but democracy if man lives better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12712	Please make it a little more order in the O.R. and let's listen to the speakers. The word is by MP Branimir Trajkovic. He's not present. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo, followed by the People's Messenger Dragoljub Vojnović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12713	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members and members of parliament, since I have submitted an amendment to delete the ban on reading, and I see that this has been withdrawn by the promoter, I will read my speech. Therefore, amendments to the Rules of Procedure are necessary and that is necessary. We must increase the efficiency of Parliament's work, since we have a lot of legislative proposals in an initiative that is slow to pass by parliament. And these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, the Proposer essentially brought about only one parliamentary group. If there wasn't one parliamentary group, those amendments of the Rules of Procedure probably shouldn't, since somehow the rest of us would have to be collegiate and we wouldn't have to. Of course, one principle must follow. The promoter tried to follow him, but he may not be consistent. It's the principle that as for most, so is the minority. So not always will all MPs of the majority be in that majority. Some of them will no longer be members of parliament. Many of the members of parliament from the current majority will become a minority in a future meeting and have to make sure that they may not now bring about some changes that will be good for the current majority and prevent some obstruction and destruction of a single parliamentary group, but then it will be bad for a future minority, which may have some less rights than it would have had that these changes have not been passed. That's why my nine amendments, which I submitted, applied to that. One of them accepted that the ban should be lifted. About the order of speakers and the length of the debate, MPs Panajotovic and Pavlovic gave a better solution than I did, so that's where we agreed. Of course, in terms of punishment - my opinion was that punishments were only appropriate for those warnings and those exclusions brought by the collective National Assembly. So, I've advocated that for these other penalties, such as warning and confiscation of words, fines are deleted and only left to be excluded. But that didn't go away. Now I'm just going to focus on my key amendment, which didn't even predict the promoter. So I suggest adding a new member to remove the quorum during the principle debate. There are several reasons why I suggested it. One thing is that the parliamentary practice in the world has shown that not all MPs are always interested in someone, often very professionally, the issue being discussed and that they can always use that time more wisely through working on committees or working with voters on the ground. Furthermore, there are always speakers who have applied for the word and who are always interested and to hear what other MPs think about it. Of course, there's something that's practice now. So, in this room, there are often only 70, 80, 90 of us. Sometimes for minutes and hours there are so many of us, and when a quorum is asked to execute the destruction of Parliament's work, then many MPs enter, insert the cards and go outside, and again there are 70, 80, 90 MPs, in just a few dozen minutes. So these MPs sitting there, 70, 80, 90, are not sitting there because they are forced by the Rules of Procedure, but because they are forced to do so by the moral obligation they feel, to sit in this House. So there are statements about statistics, about voting, about presence. Of course, voters will know that they appreciate or punish the presence of MPs. Also, we are not obliged here to be an audience for someone's life and to use this pay phone just for personal promotion. So my proposal is to add Article 3a after Article 3 of this Decision. which only determines that the President of the National Assembly opens a session of the National Assembly, since on the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, it finds that more than half of the total number of MPs are present at the session, and that another member is added, which is that only the President of the National Assembly has the right to request that the quorum be determined by applying an electronic voting or counting system, if this is in the function of the successful work of the National Assembly. Of course, when there is no quorum during the principle debate, there may be a need to redefine the quorum. For example, when there is a vote in principle, since the principle debate was exhausted before it was foreseen. This need is assessed by the president of the National Assembly. (President: Time. ) So, despite all the controversial discussions on this proposal, the Legislative Committee considers that this is legally possible, the Administrative Committee has accepted, the Proposer has not, and we will vote on that. I invite you, when that amendment is made, to vote yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12714	The People's MP Dragoljub Vojnovic has the word, and after him, MP Petar Hungarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12715	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the third day, we have been talking about a motion for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. The big words are mentioned (i.e. the ugly words I forgot) - The Constitution, democracy, dictatorship, making comparisons that parliament looks like a theater, a bar, a circus. I, my colleagues, would start with the etemological meaning of the Rules of Procedure, which means how we do business. How did we do business? I mean bad, and if we keep doing business like this, we're going to do worse, which means we have to redo the rules of conduct. Today were questions as to why the Democratic Party of Serbia is doing it. I may not be the most competent to say this, but I must say that the Democratic Party of Serbia, as the most numerous in this House and the party that advocates that the executive government is doing better and more effectively, had to agree with other parties to come up with another proposal to organise this Parliament's work. First, this proposal to the aphirmis, as already said, the Assembly committees. One committee has already been proposed and you all know his authority. Secondly, it was introduced after so much time by parliamentary practice, the institution of impelation. I've never heard of him trying in a preliminary debate to better specify or determine this institution in any way. Third, an MP who has issued an opinion on the committee has the right to explain it in a special period of time. Only these illustrations say that so far the work of the Assembly is not good and not because of the obstruction of parliament, obstruction is a kind of political struggle of the opposition, but because here, colleagues, a lot of talk, has been written (you saw it yesterday). But when I say a lot of things, I don't mean pesoriaticly, just persuasively, because you can talk in a pub and it's a bar talk. You can speak at the university amphitheatre and then it's a professional specialist speech. This is where it must be spoken, in my opinion, in the speech of Parliament. Therefore, the Democratic Party of Serbia proposes to amend the Rules of Procedure, to organise the work differently, to affirm committees, to clarify opinions and proposals within parliamentary groups and parliamentary clubs, so that they are presented here, for this speaker, in an argument and competent manner. So far, working in the congregation, in my opinion, has been considered by some colleagues, just going out in front of this pay phone and having a wide discussion about anything, whether or not it's already been discussed. My colleagues, I'm going to illustrate it with one example that happened yesterday. My esteemed colleague, the president of the parliamentary group, said here, was angry with me as an affirmative professor of the university, someone threw it: don't knock. It's really ugly, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure and it's a vulgar word, but the point is in the other, that an esteemed colleague thinks that if he's a professor of the university he understands everything and can talk about anything. I'm a professor of neuropsychiatrics, but I don't understand orphans and I don't know milk premiums. I want to tell you, dear colleagues, those who want to speak out loud and protracted about everything where they are competent and not competent, may find some other listeners, who, as they say in my neighborhood, are in vain. If someone wants to suicidally give their rating, politically, in any way, he has no right to lead us. The Democratic Party of Serbia holds its reputation and keeps its promise where it is responsible for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12716	The word is by MP Petar Madzharevic, followed by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12717	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the fundamental intensity of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure is the protection of parliamentaryism in Serbia, not the stifling of democracy, as falsely shown in the statements of some opposition MPs. The parliament was elected on the basis of a proportionate electoral system, which means that certain parties received a number of votes from voters in Serbia, which led to the delegation of MPs to the Serbian parliament. So, the objection to suppressing and jeopardising the rights of MPs does not objectively stand, because the law itself places the focus on parliamentary groups, as a result, not MPs. It's hardly anyone can run on their own and win the election. I think we'll all agree on that, and the probability of such a thing is almost flat zero. Why is that, we could discuss it, but when the law is right on the agenda. Putting emphasis on parliamentary groups in this proposal is only a consequence of adapting to the applicable regulations in this area. In the performances of certain MPs, the propaganda doctrine established by Goebbels is prevailing, and its purpose is the following - it is not what is true, but what we will convince public opinion to accept as the truth. More specifically, a hundred times repeated lie will eventually become true. The proposed amendment of the Rules of Procedure does not take away the right to speak and speak freely in a reasoned and polite discussion, but rather this barren, endless and unnecessary repetition of the same attitudes is limited to a reasonable level. After all, the old Rules of Procedure of Article 99 states that the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly; the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. In the end, it is not permitted to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. As respected as this is in the previous period, we saw for ourselves. The problem was that there was no adequate sanction for violating these provisions. This proposal introduces the sanctions. Furthermore, by interpreting that these changes limit the constitutional rights of MPs are unilateral and represent a substitute for thesis, because no one can benefit from his right to harm another. Besides, Article 18. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is largely called by opposition MPs here, says: "People's dignity and the right to the private life of men are injureable." Psovke, an insult, pours out the most banal expressions addressed to the chairman, as well as MPs who make arguments for this speaker, have, unfortunately, become the usual manner of members of an opposition parliamentary group. The scenes of catching up with a pay phone as if it were someone's private property and the presentations of certain MPs, when all the polite means of persuasion don't result, I don't think it's necessary to speak in particular. We are almost daily witnesses and in some way hostages to this immature behavior. The fines proposed are precisely aimed at curbing this rude behavior, which is increasingly expressed by certain MPs. Therefore, they are aimed at curbing swearing and insults that have a personal character, and they are in no way aimed at countering the expression of political attitudes, objections and criticism of each species, if they are brought out in one Parliament in an appropriate manner. The introduction of a privatisation board, which will have the right and the obligation to control the privatisation process, is certainly in the general interest and it would be good for all parliamentary parties to give their representatives to this assembly committee. As far as the Interruption Institute is concerned, I think it is a positive flow of parliamentaryism and its introduction through this amendment to the Rules of Procedure strengthens the role and importance of the MPs, giving us the right to do so by the government or by a certain ministry to make a statement on certain issues. The proposal for interpretation requires 50 signatures from MPs, which in fact shows only that the interpretation will be seriously and carefully submitted. Over 600 amendments and their incredible content are now in favour of amending the Rules of Procedure and narrowing down the possibilities for its abuse. I sincerely hope that after adoption, courtesy and dignity will be restored to the National Assembly. Thank you. Alexander Vukic is looking for a word from the scene. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12718	What replica? Where? No group mentioned, no mention of you. Don't. What was he saying? Don't, there's no reason. Do not report, there are no grounds, you are not mentioned by name, you are not mentioned by function, you are not mentioned as a party, as a parliamentary group. Don't, I can't really give you a word. Please don't. (Alexander Vukic asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about Rule 99's position on the work of the National Assembly, don't worry, I won't take up much of your time, I just want to point out what the proposal and MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia are up to today. They want, first of all, to pretend to be ignorant, like they don't know who it's about, to say the most harshest possible insults, worst possible expressions, and by the way, to say that this is how I sometimes look at myself because someone who swears something out of the ruling majority appears, but it's no big deal and nothing new. I'd just like to tell you a few things about those curses, insults, etc. We've heard this a lot more from you in power, and sometimes you get an answer the way you deserve it. And the answer is from us, even if it's one of the MPs you keep calling and attacking. We're proud that we're this one parliamentary group that bothers you, because God forbid we have a socialist alliance of working people and that no one bothers you because we want multiparty pluralism, we want different opinions, whether you like it or not. And, as far as impelation is concerned, it's nice to have a neuropsychiatrician understood in the Rules of Procedure. But I have to tell you, it's not an institution, it's an institute. By the way, the radicals were looking for it on February 27th, so you didn't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12720	The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, followed by Zivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12721	The Honorable Presidency, honest ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I first read the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, I found myself in a dilemma. As a democratic for my conviction and party membership, I believe that a well-known saying should certainly be respected: "Sir, I do not agree with your opinion, but I will fight for your right to express it for the rest of my life." On the other hand, the question arises whether everything heard from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's pay phone in this session was in line with parliamentaryism, good taste, and also domestic education. Freedom does not mean anarchy, and the public word, whose specific weight is exceptional, cannot be misused, at least not from this pay phone, for discrediting all institutions of a state of this high home, the president of the state, government, ministers, etc. No one contests the right to criticise, to a sharp political struggle, or obstruction as a normal form of political struggle, but gentlemen here we have often attended scenes of open destruction, whose goal is indeed, as someone said, the creation of a circus. If we agree to the circus and become circuses ourselves. It's obvious to someone that the people at one point say they're all the same. And when they're the same, it doesn't matter who they vote for. We inherited a politically downgraded, economically ruined and culturally damaged state a year ago. I wonder if they had any rights, after all that happened in the last decade, to deal with the destruction and prevention of parliament from creating a legal framework for a normal state, belonging to the European Community of the people. Gentlemen, when the house burns down, it's the duty of everyone in the house to put out the fire, and most of all those who have fired the fire and caused recklessly by handling matches over the past ten years. The essence of parliamentaryism is in the debate, not in the vote. But the debate, gentlemen, is not haughtiness, primitiveism, insolence, arrogance, insults and other abuses of the pay phone. Many have shown their heroism behind a pay phone by insulting, but there is certainly no grain of democracy, because democracy is a day-to-day system that does not need such heroes. The amendments that I do not wish to quote, already done by MP Anita Beretic, as well as an explanation for the replacement of individual ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, are the strongest argument for the necessity of adopting such a rules of procedure, which the president himself said was a temporary and transitional solution. The Rules of Procedure would certainly not be restrictive if the work of individual parliamentary groups would not be excessively destructive and often opposed to basic home education. When I listen to the blatant, untapped words, unsuitable to this home, I see from the pay phone the columns of refugees, the destroyed economy, the destroyed hearths, the loss of territory, the bombing, the misery and everything that has happened to us in the past decade, thanks to each other and such a vocabulary. The lack of competence and excess haughtiness, sharp and rude dictionaries were very much the dragon of our tragedy. We cannot allow this practice to continue because it is known that they killed words first and only then weapons. Very often in this home is advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and much more often there has been injury to MPs who must be protected from all kinds of personal insults. As far as fines are concerned, I believe that in some cases abuses of a congregation pay phone would be far greater punishments if those words were used in a barrage than for a congregation pay phone, and for me, it would personally be more appropriate to distance some MPs in the longer term from the assembly sessions, until they are compared to civilised behaviour. As for limiting the duration of the discussion, I consider it enough to be the intended time, because by improving parliamentaryism we cannot consider a series of words that often ensnars us from this pay phone, mostly without any order or meaning. So in the end, I will quote Duško Radovic: "Those who know a lot speak little, and vice versa, the most say those who know nothing." That has to do with it. Only an opinion can prevent a man from speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12722	There's no basis for replication, for God's sake. The word is Zhivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12723	Dear People's MPs, we have before us a proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly that is in the public, and at the beginning of this session already promoted the minority as a magic wand which will solve all the problems that exist clearly in the work of our assembly. Proposers hire it as a text resulting from a critical review of the existing businessman and as a solution that will improve our work. It is understandable that a high assessment of the proposed draft rules of procedure is proposed because the public should be convinced that the cause of the inefficient work of this Parliament and of the intolerant atmosphere, which is often on the verge of excess, in the absence of the existing rules of procedure, is "obstruction and non-discipline" of opposition MPs, as the ruling majority considers, so they should either be abolished or restricted in the proposal of the future Rules of Procedure. For violating the constitutional and legal rights of MPs, more or less. Who's gonna take care of that? However, for the crisis in our Assembly and its functioning, the causes should not be sought in an inadequate Rules of Procedure or in an obstruction in the work of this Parliament by opposition MPs, as usually served by the parliamentary minority. The blame for such a condition should be sought on the other side. I think that, above all, she lies in an attempt by the ovative authority to rule the regulations, past the Constitution and the law, and what needs to especially entangle us, beyond congregation control. Such behaviour and the proposed rules of procedure aim to avoid discussing issues for which citizens are obviously interested, which are issues concerning better life, for which this authority has no answer or solution. It seems to me that the Rules of Procedure on the agenda should, firstly, serve those purposes. Instead of the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Assembly being a means for any parliamentary initiative and draft law to be within the shortest time in the agenda, the subject of a broad debate and obviously the MPs in the Assembly, this is how the proposed Rules of Procedure is a set of obstacles and restrictions that lie ahead of MPs and their initiatives. Therefore, the chief intention of the Rules of Procedure is to prevent MPs from speaking about what the Rules of Procedure's applicant does not like. And here, gentlemen of Parliament, we are coming to the essence of the problem we are facing, which is that the main assembly act - the Rules of Procedure - must be brought in so that it suits you both when you are in power and when you are in opposition. I draw attention to the fact that it is sufficient for you to take this Rules of Procedure and assess whether it would suit you if you were in opposition, and then you would see what its real value is. I therefore call on the promoter to withdraw from the procedure the proposed draft rules of procedure because the solutions offered are threatened with the basic principles and principles of parliamentary work and the democracy of the MPs in this assembly, which is a violation of the principle of free debate, the principle of freedom of speech of the MPs and which limits the rights of the MPs by means of the constitution defined. I'm ashamed of sanctions and fines and to speak for this pay phone. In our conditions of early multilateral parliamentaryism, it is a good act that manages to survive more than one majority rule. I'm not sure this business will survive the duration of the DOS majority in this House. I'm sure the congregation majority will adopt the proposed Rules of Procedure, and then what? I am sure that this Rules of Procedure will not bring anything new in the work of the National Assembly, because for the new Rules of Procedure and the work on it Serbia lacks more democracy, including in this assembly. The application of this Rules of Procedure will lead to even greater incident situations because it is rigid, offensive, or inapplicable in practice. When you adopt this Rules of Procedure, you'll have, in the end, only two other solutions. It is one thing to suspend public television transmission from this assembly, and the other is much simpler: to disband the assembly and call new elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12724	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 99(1). I didn't answer my word on purpose, I waited for the president or anyone else to react, to point out a few facts. In the speech of the predecessor's predecessor, we heard a series of insults and the most difficult qualifications, expressed in the most abject way, very ossion, which most liked. I understand that. It's politically understandable. It's politically normal. You like it when someone insults your political opponents. But don't after that hold onto the tarpaulins and tell us when you're much lighter than the one we just heard we point to what your political failures are, what your political mistakes are. It would be good, and that's what we said, if you'd stuck with it. I heard a few words from those who belonged to the authorities, who thought differently about what happened yesterday, when it was not only anti-business but also unfairly excluded Tomislav Nikolic, and some others did not receive a warning for much more difficult words. It would be good if you had the same arches and treated the MPs in the same way, whether they were from the government or from the opposition. It was interesting to me that you got the biggest round of applause for those columns of refugees you remembered. The Serbian Radical Party -- and you spoke of us -- was not in power when the columns of refugees from the Serbian Krajina and Republika Srpska flowed. At that time, radicals were in prison, and you supported the Dayton Peace Agreement, and the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, unlike the Serbian Radical Party, and these agreements produced these columns of refugees. So I'd like to ask you if you have one general or one block of Odium, it's your fault, so you can skip it and analyze the situation, so let's see who's to blame. So, I would like to ask the president of the National Assembly to pay further attention to the most serious insult and qualification of the regime's MPs, which is the enthusiasm of their colleagues. I said, I would understand that, and I don't mind, but then don't blame us when we answer in the same way or slightly less, and we want to point out that the situation is real, that the objective situation in Serbia is very different, that I'm not telling you about the ruined economy in a year, that I'm not telling you about the Strike Colubary, etc. In any case, I ask for such a relationship with the MPs. Everyone's gonna say hi.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12726	He has the word Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12727	Ladies and gentlemen, I am the predecessor of the predecessor. I feel that I have not offended anyone by fighting for the return of dignity to parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For all of you where you do not recognize that you have participated, I can only say one thing: since we entered this assembly of the Republic of Serbia, your parliamentary group has been working as two in a court of law. One says, "Friend Judge, I'm not guilty, he's slaughtering, I'm just holding. That's what you say. You were just holding and helping those who ran this country. As for the very relationship in this congregation, you certainly understand that it is not literally but in a portable sense. As for the very relationship with your parliamentary group, I fully understand the president of the Assembly of Mr. Marsicanin who often cannot endure and respond to some of the provocations by your parliamentary group. A large Serbian radical, Nikola Pasic, once held a session of the Parliament and could not calm the MPs. He said something, which may not have been appropriate, as chairman. He said - I must literally quote him - Serbian brothers, you cattle. At that time, an MP came out and said that it was not appropriate for those who chair the National Assembly to use such a dictionary, for, for example, in the English Parliament, Lord Watchstones speaks with great respect to his MPs. Pasic answered: Gentlemen, what kind of English are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12728	There's a word Mr. Dragan Tomic - according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12729	Dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak of Article 99. A Rules of Procedure, which my predecessor abused terribly. Using the term "who held and who slaughtered," two previous-term parliamentary groups, the SPS and the SRS were definitely thought of here. The way you now, gentlemen, address the terms you use and talk about the dignity of this assembly, how you behave with dignity here, how this is a democratic approach to dialogue, how this new rules of procedure will introduce even more democracy into Serbia, by taking away the right of the opposition and speaking, and by attending parliament, and especially by proposing anything. This is absolute autocracy, a simple phraseology that can cause applause, and it doesn't mean anything. Ask Kolubara workers and others who strike today - is that good or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12730	Mr. Tomic, I am fully convinced that the MP, Mr. Stanimirovic, the words you quoted did not refer to any MP group at all, absolutely not. It's not for us or anyone, it's an illustration. The words are really very rough, that they're directed to anyone, it can be connected. Mr. Stanimirovic did not use it in this context as you understood. If there were a shred of doubt that was true, believe me, I would have warned him. There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know who killed and who held it, because I didn't kill or hold it. If you think that your remark was relevant to you, and I'm getting it, for the public's sake -- you're shruging -- I think it says a lot more about you than it does about me. I'll tell you something else -- as far as the county from which the man who talked about it is concerned, only 50 volunteers of the SRS, west of Drina and Danube, died fighting for the Serb people. These men were neither slaughtered nor held, but fought for their people. And if for nothing, what for them and their families, I would ask you not to repeat such things again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12732	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic (not present). The word has a People's MP, Mr. Stevan Liliæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12733	Since the Constitution of Serbia in Article 82 tells us that the National Assembly itself organises and regulates its work and organisation, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is actually a procedural agreement on how and how certain political issues are discussed. The aim of the Rules of Procedure is to bring different political views into such a mutual relationship to reach a compromise, not a conflict. Unfortunately, in our discussions, we have seen for a long time that it overcomes one view that the Rules of Procedure is its own goal. It cannot be its own goal, it must be one means of effective and democratic bargaining. In this context, a group of MPs also submitted some amendments to the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to increase efficiency. Starting from this, participation in the debate, when it comes to the debate in principle, would have three MPs from each parliamentary group, i.e. no more than two MPs from the same group, if they had the opposite position. This is because it is actually in the principle debate about the political attitude that a particular political group has. The second amendment is that MPs who are members of the same parliamentary group may submit no more than three amendments to one draft law. On the other hand, if the parliamentary group makes several members, there may be as many amendments as there are members of the parliamentary group. And finally, when it comes to interpretation, it is a special institute that is very important and should not be confused with the question of government responsibility, or individual minister. Interpletion aims to streamline the procedure in the sense that various individual and specific issues are grouped into one general and principled debate. It is our proposal that the number of MPs, i.e. the number of signatories required, be increased from the present one, in order to at the same time lead to the increased number of MPs participating (maybe from different groups) in asking such questions. So, ending this dazzling display of amendments given by a group of MPs, I think that, given the situation in which we are, and especially because, as I have mentioned, the issues concerning the rules of procedure would be seen as the objective and essence of dealing with the functions of the MPs, it would be very important to bring such a Rules of Procedure on these occasions, which would allow for an effective debate and which would take the issue of obstruction off the track of destructive participation in the debate and put on track a constructive and effective decision of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12734	There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12735	Mr. President, start getting used to that when you call participants in the debate, you no longer appoint them - a MP, but with - a member of the parliamentary group, because these amendments of the Rules of Procedure will contribute to that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, finally some parties have shown their true democratic face. We are now discussing the third Rules of Procedure in this assembly in just over eight and a half months. Some of the things that Mr. Michael's Rules of Procedure has said on behalf of the Proposer, I can say they don't have a single shred of truth. Mr. Mihajlov said that he was one of the reasons for the amendments of the Rules of Procedure to the non-discipline and obstruction of the MPs of the people, and he thought most of it was the MPs of the SRS. For Mr. Michael, the obstruction is that SRS MPs actively participate in the debates, prepare for every law and write and submit amendments, and it is not an obstruction that MPs of the ruling majority, DOS, and DSS, who belong to DOS, are not in the Assembly Hall, but in the halls, restaurants, hotels, flee to the games, at the reception of their President Vojislav Kostunica, so there is no quorum to work here. Some of your MPs have appeared two or three times in this room in more than eight months, as long as this assembly is going on. He also mentioned that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure were appropriate to the European countries' long parliamentary traditions, even one of his DSS counterparts told about the German and French businessmen. It seems to me that from all those rules of procedure, which you might have been able to examine, you chose the worst things in them. Instead of accepting what's good from the West, it seems to me that DOS accepts only what's worst. First you start with drugs, weapons, prostitution, now you end up here in the Assembly with decisions in the Rules of Procedure. If the SRS, while in power, had proposed such changes, it would have been likely that those same countries, which you are now talking about, would have declared such a rules of procedure non-democratic, would have introduced a few more embargoes to the Republic of Serbia and SRJ, if not military intervention, and you are allowed to do so, just because you want to silence Serbian radicals. In view of his words to give these changes even greater authority to the MPs, that is one great lie. It's not true, because they only give more authority to the National Assembly. People's MPs have no more rights, because they no longer have the right to decide for themselves when they will enter, when they will apply for the discussion, and at which point of the agenda. They don't even have the right to submit amendments anymore. So they don't even have the right to speak in this assembly, for this pay phone, for that time that was prescribed in the previous Rules of Procedure. Ten minutes, so if DOS decides five minutes. These changes call this right into question, and the basic right of the MP is to speak right in this assembly. As for the statements also, that these changes are being made for the responsibility of the parliamentary groups, I can say that that is not true. The greatest responsibility for such work in the congregation is in fact the Presidency of the National Assembly itself. You, if you expect Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic to come out for this pay phone and tell what is not on the agenda, and he starts insulting the officials and members of the SRS and the SRS in general, and he does not get any warning from the president, either from the vice president or from the vice president, and moreover, it is normal to expect the SRS MPs to come out and attack everything that is wrong with the current government. And Mr. Djindjic, and Mr. Batic, and Mihajlovic, and Gaš Knezevic, and Vesenov, etc. Furthermore, another one of his statements- the rules of procedure determines the time of relative success in the elections. That doesn't have to be determined by the rules of procedure. I'm the law on elections determines that. So, gentlemen of the DOS People's MPs, you have 176 MPs, you have every legal proposal to defend and participate in the debate as members of the SRS parliamentary group, it's only a problem in the following things: which is much easier for opposition deputies to attack your hollow laws, and you are enforcing a hollow Rulesman than for you to defend him. And there's the biggest problem you can't go out for this pay phone. I can tell the lady who spoke here about our amendments that the amendments are just as serious as the proposals on amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia are serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12736	The word is Stevan Guduric, according to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12737	Mercedes as mercedes, but a violation of Article 80 and Article 114. In Article 80, Section 2 - The quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if more than half of the total number of MPs attends the meeting of the National Assembly. Article 114 says, it doesn't hurt me to remember, since it mostly... , like this: "People's MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them when leaving the National Assembly Hall. "You have no custom, and neither does the president of the assembly, nor does the service have the custom to follow, and it is seen who is in this assembly all the time, so establish the quorum and determine how many cards are more than the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-04-0.u12738	Please determine the quorum. Come on, eighth, ninth row, I'm really going to schedule tomorrow in 14:30, so you... Come on, come on, don't shut up. Break 10 minutes. [[After break - 17.30 p.m.]] Please confirm the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I realize we don't have a quorum. Since I do not have the authority to interrupt the session, this is a decision by the Assembly, and the Assembly cannot make a decision because there is no quorum, I am taking a break until Monday at 10 o'clock.
