ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on extra profit and extra profit tax, which is on the agenda today, should be passed for two reasons. The first reason is because it's historic, and the second reason is because it's justice. It's historically important to say that because yesterday some speakers mentioned the situation in which this is the first time, that this is precedent and so on. That's not true. After World War I, a law was passed in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia that taxed war profiteers, and in 1946, in France, the De Gaulle government passed laws against war profiteers. What does that have to do with war profiteers? It's very simple. Those who brought Serbian citizens and this country into war with Slovenians, Croats, citizens of Bosnia, to kill themselves in Kosovo and finally start a war with the whole world -- could be called incompetent. But if they're even rich, they're no better than war profiteers. It's not a revolution, ladies and gentlemen, it's people's justice. Ask your neighbors if they think they should tax the special tax on those who have become rich in the last 13 years. It's not a law of chance. It's not for the revenge of the former government. It's the date when we entered those accidents, when irresponsible politicians were clouded to hunt in the blurry, to eventually come out too rich. We all know these people need to be taxed. That's why I'm surprised that the representatives of the opposition here speak not only about how this law should be passed, but about how mild our terms are, how we make the settlement possible. We're going to meet everyone who's asking to sharpen this law. We'll support those amendments. The law will be inexorable. The little problem is who the support comes from. The support comes from the current opposition in Parliament, which was previously the government, and during that time, these bumblebees of the people have become rich. They're being treated by this law. The other reason we have to pass this law is because it's justice. So it's historically founded and it's justice for him to adopt. It is justice that our oldest fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, who these days are waiting in line to receive 330 marks, which we have provided with torment, from the old foreign exchange savings, of their church they have entrusted to the state, is justice that they know who the people who brought the old foreign savings as privileged. Only through the Bank Slavia 520 million marks came out. It'll all come out. It is justice that these citizens know that their trust in the state is restored, and the only way to restore their trust to the state is for those who have been privileged to be punished. It is justice for people to find out that out of 145 million and 115 thousand marks, as borrowed from the loan for Serbia's economic rebirth, about 62 million were not returned. The justice is that those who haven't returned those loans return something. It is justice to pay at least a primary emission tax, and it has been found that on the basis of credit from the primary emission base of taxation of about 650 million marks and to tell people the truth: yes, folks, the highest state officials at the time of hyperinflation from primary credit emissions went to Vranje, to return them to Dragan Tomic when they were worth 100 times less. And not only him, more people close to the authorities at that time had a simple formula that reads: 100,000 marks a month from the primary show, 200,000, as far as anyone has been from being told. It is justice that ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, who received larger apartments than those belonging to them, and then bought them favourably, which is not the subject of this law, pay an extra profit tax. Whoever didn't take advantage of the loan, the primary show or the state or scratched a huge representative apartment, has nothing to fear, whether his apartment is big or small. Since this was a subject of doubt, and since some speakers mentioned citizens here yesterday, who have legally bought their apartments in the past 13 years, I'll tell you next. Who opened the "Evening News" today was able to see one text, which mentions the solution of the Zemun Municipality Assembly, which authorised one of our older citizens to perform huge investment works at her house in Batajnica and even if that investment was large and it was large, and if that lady needed two garages, nine and a half bedrooms, when her children came to have a place to sleep, even if it was necessary four bathrooms, sometimes hygiene habits were expensive, unless it was from the primary show, unless it was from the loan for Serbia's economic renaissance, if the Serbian government had not granted that apartment, it would not be subject to extra profit law. There may be some law wrong. Ministers who have received flats of 180-190 square meters will be taxed. People who have invested great money of suspicious origin in something are not subject to it. Yesterday I sat with Mr. Djelic for half an hour and we failed to determine whether they were subject or not to this law, but the people will judge. Ladies and gentlemen, the time when people were getting rich, kidnapping people's property, has passed. We will bring this law, aware of the weather and the fact that this time must never happen again in this country. [[Applause]] [[Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9055	You have no right to a replica. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: he mentioned it to me. I now have to read "Evening News" to know (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. There's nothing in the Rules of Procedure. You can't speak a word about a replica, I'm really warning you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9056	Mr. Marsican's hatred from your eyes and that nervousness that caught you suddenly explained everything to me and it was immediately clear to me that you would not allow me to use the right to replicate. Just before, Srda Popovic presented false facts concerning me, and you do not allow me to deny these things, to explain. What does that mean, explain it to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9057	This means that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you do not have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9058	How come I don't have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9059	So read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9060	I read the Rules of Procedure, but you didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9061	Quoting a member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Seselj, I'll remind you for the second time...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9062	How's the second time, when's the first time?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9063	Because of the violation...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9064	I thought you were joking before the beginning of the session when you said it was a warning. How can you make warnings and the session hasn't even started? Look at the way you're acting. The session starts when it's determined that we have a quorum. Before it's established that we have a quorum, you make a warning. What's going on with you guys, what does that mean? I insist that you allow me to use the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9065	Since Mr. Seselj didn't say who the member was, I have to find him now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9066	This is Article 96.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9067	If, in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly, the MP is offended about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name, last name or function (not), that is to say, he is misreading his exposure (there was no) to whom the presentation refers, he shall have the right to reply. Accordingly, I have decided that you do not have the right to reply, and that is decided by the President of the Assembly. (Vojislav Seselj asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9068	You read the Rules of Procedure, which is clear to the end. You say name, last name or function. It was clearly my function, and it was clear that it was my mother and you gave me no right to answer that. It was clear to everyone except you, it's clear to you, you've prepared it, you've had the ready answer, and your hatred and your anxiety, which you've shown without reason, says I'm right. Based on my function, my mother was mentioned, and then it was described by my mother, and it was a regret that she couldn't come under the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9069	Do you go into controversy by the Rules of Procedure, or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9070	I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure and your violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9071	By what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9072	Article 96. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9073	That's the second time we've decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9074	When did we decide? Was there a vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9075	You have the right after my explanation just to vote, you have re-applyed to the Rules of Procedure. That doesn't mean opening up controversy and debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9076	I'm not delirious at all, but I'm ordering you to violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9077	I don't know what you're doing then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9078	You have now broken the Rules of Procedure by reading and interpreting Article 96. You've just broken my word, or you've given me the right to the line. It was your violation of the Rules of Procedure, and now you're reading a member of the Rules of Procedure and misreading it. And it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9079	Well, since you as a former professor of law school established that reading the Rules of Procedure violates the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9080	No, it's the interpretation that breaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9081	I didn't interpret it, I just read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9082	You said the interpretation based on what you read.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9083	Your only problem is I can't get upset, and I can't hate it any less. There's your problem. He has the word National MP Branimir Trajkovic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9084	Dear President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, in the proposal for a single tax on extra income and extra property, which is before us, listening to the presentation of fellow MPs yesterday, we all agreed in one thing: that there was a robbery of people, states and that individuals had become enormously rich in the last 10 to 12 years. The exact date is not so important because the privileges of the ruling nomencalcture, along with crime, went hand in hand. Article 2 clearly states that this law affects legal and natural persons who have been given the possibility of obtaining income, i.e. obtaining property under conditions that have not been available to all citizens. That's the point, gentlemen. Several families from the ruling establishment have afforded themselves imperial benefits. In a short time, many have become rich, and they have become unspeakablely rich. It's interesting that in a few years, businesses have been niched like mushrooms after rain and not ordinary, but so rich that many in the West could envy them. As in Alice's wonderland, our newly-compromised capitalists began with...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9085	Mr. Seselj, because of all this you've said to a fellow MP, I give you a warning. (Employer Seselj, from the place, and what did I say? I've been raised enough not to do it again. You've been cursing your mother to all MPs, and you tell someone you've been raised. You're gonna tell someone you've been raised. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9086	To continue, many in the West have wondered what kind of land we are in which in a few years you can gain so much capital that they have been gaining for generations. Article 3 of this Law sets out the benefits that have enabled individual empires to be created. I'll list some of them. Number one, two, seven, eight, ten, 17, 19, and if I didn't read, you'd have it in front of you, but I'd stick to these last two. These are -- the use of foreign funds deposited in pyramid banks, certainly state-owned, and the use of loans based on loans for Serbia's rebirth. This, gentlemen, is a shame, which is not recorded in the world. What is sacred all over the world is fair money earned. In the end, the fraud -- the loan for Serbia's rebirth, the rapid railways and the Chinatown, everything promised to this people and the money probably ended up in some private pockets. We're hoping that the government will come out with accurate information on where it ended. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this law is more than necessary. The presentation of the leader of one opposition party made it clear that all the circumstances under which the robbery was committed were brought to the international community's embargo on Yugoslavia. This embargo was most affected by the people, not by those who were close to the source of money and privilege. Well, should these people be amnested by the SRS and the SPS demanding the withdrawal of this law from the procedure? I can understand them. One, because their comrades and friends took part in it, and this other one picked up some crumbs, but they have a political responsibility to allow it as a quasi-position at the time of the looting of the people. Perhaps the leaders of the current opposition were personally affected by this law? Article 5 of this law mentions the directors of social enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you know how many directors of social enterprises are already in prison and against how many criminal investigations have been launched. With this, it must continue because of the working people who have a sign that they will all be exposed to justice. Social enterprises should not be punished, but their directors, because many of them, using the benefits described in Article 3, have achieved a great personal benefit. Think about how many of our CEOs there are in Moscow and all over Russia. The workers won't run out of production halls, but the directors, for God's sakes, will have no fairies if they own them. I would ask the Serbian government another question -- how it intends to tax fairies and yachts and other properties in Greece, Cyprus, Russia and other countries, our citizens, citizens of Serbia who have acquired this wealth here in this country. In the end, I'd take a critical look at this law. Article 17 states that the tax authority, the RJP area unit, is the tax authority. Is it possible to implement this law with the same people who, if they were not accomplices, then at least they knew about certain financial machinations, and 90% of the RJP directors in Serbia have not changed so far. I think it's one of the shortcomings in the Ministry of Finance's work. And another thing -- we, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, are also asking Minister Djelic to control the work of the Commission, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the tax authority in the process of implementing this law by the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Employer Seselj, from place - replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9087	Did you mention that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9088	The members of the DOS coalition are in great pain that the SRS and its political leaders can't get caught in any crime, no embezzlement, no affairs. And then they make it up. Every once in a while, they launch a few things. He says the Serbian radicals took a crumb. And, which is a crumb, here, today, they're writing "News", a statement by the Democratic Party that is a crumb, saying that my mother built a new house last year, that this house is worth 600,000 marks and that it has 450 squares. First, she didn't build any new house. It's an old house. Last year it was just an adapted attic and an extended terrace. The date they mention is the date of the technical reception. The house is over 20 years old. No technical reception has ever been made before, because it was constantly incomplete. The house basically has ten times twelve squares. So this on one floor can be at most 100 square meters, no more. Two floors that's 200, plus a attic, plus a garage. It's the gauges. Which requires two garages. Says money of unknown origin. It's not exactly money of unknown origin, but you can be jealous of the honest money. Here, I offer my house in Batajnica, which is in my mother's name, and there are no houses in my name, in exchange for Djindjic's apartment in downtown Belgrade, compared to 1:2, in exchange for Vojislav Kostunica's apartment, in downtown Belgrade, to change immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9089	He has the word Mr. Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9090	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I didn't expect these debaters, who are tasked with defending this law, as it is written, to speak differently. But I would ask that they first read the law to the end, to see what is really required of this law, what is the spirit of the law, or as the current rulers say, what is the spirit of this time, what is the new environment, etc. Apparently, the sole objective of this law, which is normally written in the form of a political pamphlet, is to evaluate a previous time and say that some people from the previous government, but only those who were in office, have led this country to ruin and have become rich. Of course, he's running away from the whole application of the law, from which there's a lot to be done, and that's why it's written like this, it's hard to defend itself. Especially in the explanation, which has the character of an ordinary pamphlet, which is divided in the streets, cannot be caught by the law. You know, this law was supposed to cover a lot of things, but it wasn't. And you know why it's not -- it's not because for years speakers, from markets, from various rallys, have been calling on Serbian citizens not to pay taxes, to do away with, to commit fraud, to force them to use Cypriot models, to simply bring down the state. Then came the sanctions, of course, that helped all of this happen. And the worst thing is -- we're sitting here 37, neither of us has a private company, none of us have a craft shop, none of us drive a 200,000-mark Mercedes, and, gentlemen, half of you come out here for a pay phone and say, "I own a private company that's been so ruined for the past ten years, that there's just nothing to live on, and here half of you arrive with Mercedes." That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9091	The word has the People's MP Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9092	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of Parliament, for the first time I thought and expected that at least with this bill we would in some way be unique, and position, and opposition, for the reason that I think that at least most MPs in this assembly have no reason to fear this law. But I was surprised when I heard and suggested that this law should be withdrawn. I accept in some way the opposition's remark, in the sense that it needs to be sharper, and I'm willing that part of those amendments, which improve this bill, should be accepted, but that this law should be withdrawn entirely, I can't understand it. If he's just legally founded, I'm not such an expert, there are lawyers here, and I believe he is, but he's certainly deeply morally justified and certainly just in a certain way. We are witnesses, unfortunately, for the last ten years, that there has been an agony in this country, an unprecedented theft, crime, bribery and corruption. We know from statistics that we're another country by corruption in the world. This has all happened in the last ten years, with the blessing of former ruling parties, the SPS, the JUL, and some radicals. There's been a terrible decomposition in this country, we've become a society, on the one hand, rich, and on the other hand, people who are literally on the tell. There are jeeps, cars of the most famous marks, and, on the other hand, people don't have the money to give to kids for breakfast. On the one hand, magnificent fairies and yachts, and on the other hand, gentlemen, people have no elemental conditions for life either. Ten per cent of Serbian citizens live in splendor and luxury, while 90% live in extreme misery. I'm convinced that this bill on extra profit tax is small, but it still corrects this state, which has lasted for 10 years. If you have objections, gentlemen of the SPS, since you already object to this discussion, and you have been reluctant yesterday in the debate, why is this law being passed, why haven't you tried to pass a similar law, so that all that has happened in Serbia is sanctioned in a certain way? I listened to one of your colleagues here, it turned out that we were simply introducing this law to sort of sanction all those who belonged to your circles and who got rich on that basis, and now overnight they're moving into position. There's no difference, gentlemen, both should be taxed by this law. I have nothing against those who, by their normal work, have earned wealth in this country, and in the normal world, it is one tradition, where with a certain work you gain a certain wealth. But there is no land in the world, where overnight could have become a rich man, as it has become in us, there is no land in the world, where new-compromised businessmen, who have become rich in a year or two days. Thanks to the fact that the country, more or less, was at war these ten years, thanks to the sanctions, they managed to get rich, and, while some were killed on battlefields and were left without anything, others gained wealth. Among other things, this law is for those who have managed. I've been listening to this story for years, how people get along. Do they cope because they are capable, more professional, something more extraordinary or because they have found a system to be close to those in power and who decide? You know how they managed -- they did it by joining parties that were in power and because they were close to the authorities. They were close to the SPS, and above all to JUL. Why did the process of signing out of the SPS and their transition to JUL - well, the public secret, at least in the area where I live, in Uzic, occur, that part of the people who were in front of the prison, who had already been charged with criminal charges, joined the JUL to avoid that criminal responsibility. After all, I always said, however, the SPS was one organization, unlike JUL, which was a purely interesting and semi-mafian organisation, but it does not release the responsibilities of the SPS, because the two parties were still in power and helped each other. And, please, find me from the top of JUL a man who was in some kind of business, who was clean in those jobs. If we think of foreign loans, who could get foreign loans -- they could get people who are close to the authorities. Foreign exchange credits were taken in hundreds of thousands of marks, with inflation returning several thousand marks. Don't you think that should be taxed? Or, import quotas -- who was getting import quotas. Clearly, only those close to the government, close to you, gentlemen, who have been in government and whose government has been at the head of this country for 10 years. Or, buying a currency. You know that foreign exchanges were bought on an official course that was less than five or six times the black rate. Do you think you shouldn't tax that? Do you think this people don't know that? Not to talk about smuggling cigarettes, oil, and even drugs, which in some way is subject to criminal responsibility. As part of this, they will finally be taxed and magnificent apartments, which have been won, with a square of 170 meters and more. It's not apartments, it's two or three apartments. An apartment of 176 square meters, that's three apartments. At a normal time, it might be normal. This is an abnormal time, even more abnormal in a previous period, and it is even more abnormal that people who took these apartments talk about how Kosovo should be defended, come out here and talk about refugees, and on the other hand, take these apartments. They have rebuked this people with ideas of great Serbia, that Serbs are heavenly people, and now they weep over their fate, but they don't mind taking a 176-square-square apartment, as members of the government. Excuse me, correct me, maybe something more. We brought this people to the brink of existence. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, I listened to him twice, came out here and explained it as if what he got or took that apartment completely morally and perfectly fine. Mr. Nikolic, if it were moral and it was right, and if you were a moral man and if that were fair, you wouldn't go out at least to defend that fact here. You took an apartment in a period where the country has 400,000 refugees from Croatia and Republika Srpska, when there are 200,000 refugees from Kosovo, when many still have no roof over their heads. They live in barracks and live in halls. You, Mr. Nikolic, as Deputy Prime Minister, have taken three apartments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9093	Mr. Seselj, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9094	Said the previous MP - and some radicals. That kind of turns out to be something. Not a single argument. There's not a single radical who already had an apartment so he got a new one and kept the previous one. All apartments are assigned in accordance with the law. That law still exists today. Where did Zoran Djindjic live in downtown Belgrade, from Vojislav Kostunica? Either he got it or his father got it, but the apartments were getting it. There is still a law that provides for housing to be assigned. When that law is abolished, then you can attack it. But you can't find any abuse. Why don't you mention the Lutra company, which is covered by every provision of this law. However, it has the provision of article 9 that Dusan Mihajlovic can make a deal with Djelic and that they are agreed on, so that he can write this off, write it off and write it off and write it off. I'll just give you a few information that's very fresh. "One of the victims of Lutra's success is the Belanovica Agricultural Cooperative, whose former director arrested his incompetent son in Lutra, thus providing an apartment and work in Belgrade, and therefore Lutra took over all the jobs of the Belanovica Agricultural Cooperative in the area, where thousands of calves were produced, and shut down the production of hundreds of heroes on the Belanovica farm, which had completely new and modern facilities, as well as the latest and most modern equipment. Also, in the multi-year co-operation "Lutra" and DPP "Bačka" from Tkonoplje, over a million German marks were spilled from the DPP "Bačka" to the damage of employees in the company. Mustra is similar, with an initial 15% for the service tov, which credits "Lutra", this service gradually grows to as much as 30% in the last two years. In normal times such contracts were arrested because such contracts were qualified as harmful. Of course, the former director of the DPP "Bačka" and his right-hand man, the replaced production manager, took advantage of the Lutra. The story is similar to the last one. In addition to significant capital for both actors, the former director of his son, also with the help of Lutra, educated in Belgrade, where he was arrested after the university. The former production manager founded the local board of New Democracy after the shift to protect responsibility. With the help of his New Democracy friends, he's setting his wife up as head of St. Sava's School in Sombor. The loss these actors left to their employees at the end of the calendar year 2000 is 1,760,000 German marks or in goods - 517 wagons." Now, besides this, you're calling some Serbian bullshit radical, where there's no legal basis. You double the number of squares in Batajnica for me first, and then you're counting my square meter for 1,500 marks. He's laughing at Ceda Jovanovic. He's funny. There's a square meter of 700 marks in Batajnica, so you can't even sell at that price. (President: Time. What about downtown Belgrade? Let's see in downtown Belgrade. If Tomislav Nikolic can't get an apartment in New Belgrade, how did Djindjic get an old one? Or, how did Vojislav Kostunica get in the city's closest 200 squares? Where did that come from? That's what someone assigned. Whoever assigned it had the people's money. If this system needs to be changed, then the law is passed - the state cannot assign an apartment to anyone. (President: Mr. Seselj, I warn you that you have exceeded your time. I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9095	Mr. Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9096	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is only 11.10 p.m., and part of the opposition has become very nervous. I ask the MPs of the DOS to dedicate their time, to the extent possible and, if possible, after all we have suffered, to the bill. To Mr. Seselj, in response to everything he said here, he would have told that in his case the squares in Batajnica did not cost 700 marks. You gave them to yourself free of charge, not ten times 12 meters, but you know very well how much you gave and you know very well how wrong you were. That's why you're pretty nervous and overly energetic today. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Say what? Mr. Seselj, you're not going to be dealt with by parliament. Parliament deals with Serbia's future. You're history.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9097	Mr. Jocic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9098	Just one brief piece of information for the truth. The president of my party - DSS, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, 1945 is a nationalised house. Actually, his uncle is a nationalized house. According to that regulation, there are two smaller apartments left. That's the real truth and the only truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9099	The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragisa Marinkovic, the next is Mr Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9100	Where'd she get the money? He sold his son the land, surely, and the hunt is caught. I apologize for this introduction. Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, just one small correction from previous speakers. Mr. Tomic says no SPS gentleman has Mercedes. Mr. Guduric, nice one of those Mercedess, only you can't see it from your side. Ma'am, one correction. Mom also got a cadastrian plot, very nice. Take care of some things. You know, as a man of opposition, the sea of things I would forgive this previous government. A sea of mistakes, I'd say, they were working out of stupidity. But there's only one mistake I can't forgive them. That mistake is called the mistake of knowingly robbing this people. They consciously brought him to that minimum existence, so that he could go and wander through containers, so he could just come down to thinking about tomorrow and what's going to happen to him in the future -- or war, or losing a child, or anything. It's something I can't forgive as a man of this authority. In 1993, they deliberately caused that inflation. Why did they challenge her? For the reason that they had a loan of about a million, two million marks, and because after a few months with a handful of marks, they paid off those loans. I remember well that time. You know, the people as crazy look to fill their checks, catch every penny that can be caught, and then Saturday and Sunday come, there's a truce when a man seems like nothing's going on. During that time, they share loans on Saturdays, share housing loans for apartments of about 100, 200 square meters. Why Saturdays? Because the loans and contracts were prepared during the week and they only wait Saturday and Sunday, when the course was fixed, so they could do it, so they could type in that number. They took money right away in cash, went to the street and traded for foreign exchanges. Now I'm going to say something that, unfortunately, I see Mr. Djelic is not there, a large number of people don't even know. This last blow, and the collapse of this country, and the destruction of this people did so skillfully, and then when Mr. Avramovic came and fixed the course marks they made a terrible gaff. They took the same foreign exchanges that they chased down the streets in the last few days and turned them into dinars, put them in their banks. Now someone will say what sin is. It is a sin and it is a great one, they forgot only to change interest rates, because the interest rate at the monthly level was 1,000%. They changed after 15 days and the one who put 100,000 marks in the bank after 15 days had a billion dinars in his pocket. The last moment, the last push and the right blow to the people - knock him out, rob him all the way. This is where the apartments are mentioned. This people are afraid that those who bought their apartments for 100 or 200 marks will have to pay and return to this country. No, it's not about those people. It is about those who took five, six, seven dwellings, and those who measure the dwellings in the aris, and they are surprised that their garden is an ar and a half, and their dwelling is two ar, and those who have three, fairies of five ar, and the two of them are nothing but dwelling. It's also about those who took four, five, seven squares. Gentlemen, it wasn't just you at the time that you were in power. And we from the Democratic Party were in power. Is it possible Mr. Zivkovic didn't take the same apartment in Nis? Is it possible that Aca Krstic didn't take it? None of us Democrats have taken it, because we swore to this people that this way we would rob. Maybe two of them took some change, but they were kicked out of the Democratic Party at the same time. That's honesty to the people, and you've only talked about us badly. This is where you talk about legislation and say everything was done by law. The mark was six dinars and was sold for 25 or 30 dinars on the street, but the law was so, the law allowed us to take money for six dinars in the People's Bank. The law alone allowed you to do that, and no one could settle that money, and now you want to push the working class here, like you did to the workers, you're giving the factories these credits. You don't have a right, you robbed them first, and then you gave them some credit. To be honest, we're going to shut up here, because those directors who took such loans came to them the next day, aunts, aunts, aunts, they're going to get re-promatiles on such a good exchange rate. We'll probably comb those aunts and aunts a little bit to see where that money is and who gave it to them. Tomo, aren't you ashamed to have a two-ar apartment? I'm a private man for sixteen years, and all I could do was make... In the end, let me say I'll vote for this law. This law only makes one part of God's justice manifest, but only that part of the earth. Let those who robbed this poor girl and took the bread from God's hands answer for all they have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9101	Right on line Mr. Stevan Guduric and Mr. Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9102	A colleague who had just said better that he had explained, since he had already been theorizing about how the stork was carrying children, so he was probably done, since he didn't have to try, to build a company in Hungary, and he's selling us brains in Serbia. I'd be very pleased, my colleague, if I had a Mercedes, and unfortunately I have a ten-year-old golf course. I'm not ashamed, and I'm more ashamed of myself in front of someone I don't have three times as much as I have, and so that's not a question. It appreciates the environment I come from and it's not at all controversial. You all look in your midst, where you come from, people in the eyes, so remember how the good part of you by tax returns is a social case, and by property you couldn't explain it. Speaking of one of these laws, let's remember who has everything, and when I talk about this law, I'll explain some cases to see if it's just what you said, if we want it to be fair, at least to you from the Democratic Party was a fairy tale and a slogan. If we want to be fair, then let's really open up the debate and let anyone who can't explain to him where he needs to pay something to the state. In every other option, it's something else. A colleague used to talk about how he went to Hungary, and he didn't tell us here whether he came back from Hungary in the meantime or if this was just a ghost, but here to hold a letter, so he could probably explain to us how he was on his tax returns, the social case, and most of you here how you are social cases, and to feel sorry for us and go back to your house, as I told Mr. Jovanovic, and then we're also crying that we're not such social cases, that we have what you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9103	Right on the line, Mr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9104	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd say she's really nervous in this room, but not because of the MPs of the opposition. It's 11.21 and I have the impression that you can hardly explain who this law applies to and what's going to be real. He said my predecessor was partly just. This is how much justice will be, and the unrighteous will be this much, because this other half is missing, but she's not in opposition, because she's with you. And those who were with us, mentioning a JUL, everything went to you. And these little ones here, who sold patriotism, they sold Serbian patriotism by buying cheeks. Today, many hold half of Zlatibor and who knows what they don't have in this Serbia and you sell us honesty. How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9105	Mr. Seselj, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9106	Thank you. It's a better atmosphere in the congregation as soon as you take over and it feels like it. I have a replica of the Democratic Party's MP, unfortunately I haven't memorized his name. It doesn't matter what they're called. They lie about everything, so I can't trust what they say. He's talking again about Serbian radicals. What Serbian radical like him moved his capital to Hungary? This law should be entered into as one provision and illegal capital exports. He transferred capital to Hungary and now he's paying the Hungarians all taxes neatly there, and here he boasts he's clean. Look at something else that's happening under your authority. There's been a lot of crime under the past, I admit it. There were, even, a lot of murders. They killed politicians, killed criminals. But now, under your authority, they've started killing journalists. The first dead journalist is Milan Pantic, a correspondent for "Evening News" from Jagodina. I got a letter from some of his closest friends that was short, so I'll read it. "Miodrag Nikolic - Feman, MP and chairman of the Democratic Party's District Committee, in yesterday's issue of "Evening News", for the murder of Jagodina journalist Milan Pantic, suggested that the motives for this, in part, could be texts published by the journalist Pantic in this list or prepared for the press. For the past few months, Miodrag Nikolic and his company "Feman" in Jagodina have been the subject of writing in Vecernje news by tragically deceased journalist Pantic. It was written about the robbery of the Vihor cooperative by Miodrag Nikolic, taking on the name of the loan over 400,000 marks, and returning only a few pieces. Also in the text of his relationship with the Vihor Society, the Cooperative's leadership accused him of illegally taking up a plot for his company, "Feman", and thereby damaged this cooperative for over 600,000 dinars. In "The Evening News" late Milan Pantic wrote on June 5th about counterfeit German stamps in Miodrag Nikolic's company. Miodrag Nikolic, as district official of the Democratic Party of Pomorava, replaced him in just 14 hours, the newly appointed SUP chief Jagodina, Miodrag Rajcic, and announced a protest just a week ago outside the building of the MUP in Belgrade for the appointment of the second chief, Bozidar Djordjevic. Miodrag Nikolic, apparently, wants his man to come to the head of the SUP Jagodina, so he can cover up everything he's done and the way he's earned his fortune. Miodrag Nikolic particularly feared the text that the late Pantic prepared, which is related to the way he made extra profits and his taxation. The text, which was prepared, would raise the question of how the company "Feman" has since 1992 produced electric quartz furnaces for heating in huge quantities, since imports, due to sanctions, were banned, and he bought for his company from Bulgaria large quantities of heaters, switchers and thermostats. Making "black" heating furnaces, he sold them on black, making a huge profit. Apparently, the writing of "Evening News" journalists did not go hand in hand to the leader, and staff member Pomorović, Miodrag Nikolic, and that his address to the public through "Evening News" was a method to wash himself and his company for impious actions and to demand the responsibility of some others who would have motives to endanger the life of honorary journalist Milan Pantic." I'm not accusing, I'm just asking for an investigation to determine as soon as possible who killed journalist Milan Pantic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9107	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9108	Madam Chairman, I point to a violation of Articles 96 and 98. The Rules of Procedure, in which a large number of MPs abuse the right to replication and in the context of replicas, present many things that have nothing to do with the agenda. Please, Madam Chairman, that, at least in the future, once you have made a breach of the previous replica, don't let anything like that happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9109	Mr Kovacevic, since I am obliged to give you an answer, I think I have acted in accordance with Article 96(3), under which the chairman decides whether anyone has the right to reply or not. I have assessed that they have a right to replication, when the replica is not about the subject of the agenda, but is about being offended or poorly interpreted. If you're not happy with the answer, let me put it to a vote. I wish we were more efficient and not making such opportunities to use the right replica, but I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. Would you like the Assembly to plead on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? He won't. ) There is a word from MP Alexander Vukic. The next is MP Mr Dragan Ciolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask you not to throw away and ask the chairman to warn the MPs of the Democratic Party. I never throw away, I listen to all MPs, except when I have to tell the president of the National Assembly that he's cursing his mother to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9111	That's not true. You're throwing too. I'm taking the opportunity to ask the MPs that, in order to be efficient, they don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9112	We listened yesterday to today from people who know nothing about justice or justice or justice. They never read a book about it, let alone a textbook. The only thing they know is what their bosses are going to tell them so they can use a certain law for their own political promotion, that is to attack political opponents, seriously, and support... Will you keep your mouth shut?- I'm sorry. It's an incredible behavior. I've never experienced such incompetence and uncivilized behavior in my life. So those who don't know anything about everything on the agenda talked about this law being historic and legal. This law is not legal at all. This is savagery of law. When, within the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, we talked about how we would talk, it was said that we needed to find an environment, so that we should lag between what part of the people thinks and what they really are contrary to legal norms, contrary to the fundamental legal principles. I have to say that I'm going to step away from that and say that the greatest hypocrites are the ones who say there's anything good about this law. The worst hypocrites and the worst con men are the ones who say it should be extended for a while, how good it is, how in this way they should match each other. He's in the O.R. Professor Lilic. I got the lowest grade (eight) from him at law school. That's the only eight I got. I ask him to go out for a pay phone and say, since he's a professor of law school, he can be talked to about it, and with those who don't know anything about it, and they come out to talk all kinds of nonsense, it's not worth it. I ask him to come out for this pay phone and say if he taught us all wrong, whether everything we've learned is completely wrong, whether the principle of legal certainty is a fundamental principle of law, legal science, legal practice, legal theory, which is brutally trampled, something we shouldn't have learned. Is it retroactive to apply certain laws that are never used, or only extremely, and that's not exceptional for you, but you've been using since 1994, without any draft law, is that also misspelled? To tell us, Professor, that it is possible that there is an institute, a legal institute, which is not so named, but is the institute of a revolutionary commissioner, who will decide and assess who, or how much, will suddenly charge something that he thinks he should charge for, by, of course, giving him the right and authority to achieve, at the same time, in agreement with someone, that one pays less or more, as the revolutionary commissioner decides. This has nothing to do with justice. It has the least to do with justice. It's just people who don't know who saw law school only in photos or a week passed by him twice, can talk about this law anything serious. Such a law never appeared anywhere in parallel theory and practice. There's no such thing as law anywhere in the world. There's never been such a law. There was something very different. It was illegal, illegal, criminal acts of property, and you're also talking about what was obtained by legal means. It's something that's never existed anywhere in the world. It's something you've introduced, and you think it can stay and survive in legal traffic. The fact that revolutionary commissioners will be able to make a decision about whether someone is alive or not, how much punishment they're going to take away, who's going to pay whom, how much and how. I have to tell you that you have in mind that when it comes to the change of government, just think about how someone foolish would do it, I hope no one will do it, but in order for someone foolish, someone who would want to act like you, to act like you. Shooting would be a small punishment. If someone, I said, wanted to behave the same way you did. This has nothing to do with justice or justice. Everything you can talk about and how you can talk, you have to read the acts, and here we have ministers, who should represent the government and talk about this law, who don't know what the legal act means, let alone that they can discuss it more seriously. This is where we listened... You're free... I don't think knowledge is ever free, you can throw as much as you want. I hope someone's knowledge after your ignorance and everything you do saves you one day. I'm sure of it. As for those who say that this is the responsibility of all those who have brought the country into war and in the justification of unsuspecting politics, those who have brought the country into war with the citizens of Bosnia, those who show a fundamental lack of knowledge of political opportunities, who do not know that the Serb people fought for their freedom west of Drina and Danube, and nothing more than that, who would like to transfer everything to the Serbian people today, and who have no idea what more to transfer it, but everything and everything will say, just to harm the Serb family, to talk about alleged Serb crimes, because they think they are then becoming greater Democrats and greater cosmopolites. Now, the one who's got something is to put it away. And tell him I don't know what. That's not how it's gonna work. Here you are, all richer than the opposition MPs, and you were the opposition in the previous period (disregard), 90% of you, how did they get so much wealth? How did they get it? Milosevic didn't give them. And how could he end up in Hungary? And he didn't give it to Milosevic. (Glasses: What money? That's a lot of money you've been carrying over the banks. You're talking to someone about honesty. Your bosses and your MPs live in Genex's apartments, Hayatt, five cars a ride and drive them, 20 bodyguards apiece. You'll talk about it! And that's what Zoran Djindjic, Cedu Jovanovic, Vojislav Kostunica, I guess that's what you're talking about, if you're already talking about it so much. Have them show up somewhere without 20 bodyguards. They can't go shopping without 15 of them. One of them's holding his bag, the other's holding his bread, the third's charging him there instead of a cashier. And you'll talk about who's what, how and where he took or anyone else. As far as the law is concerned, he cannot remain and remain in legal traffic. Will you find those in the opposition who will support you in madness and nonsense? I can't figure it out, but it's their thing and I don't care. But this law cannot remain and survive in legal traffic. Call Professor Lilich, have him come out and tell you that. He's a man who knows something about law. But he won't come out for this pay phone, because he knows I'm right. I'm telling you, he's not gonna come out to defend this because he knows I'm right and because he knows this can't stay and stay in legal traffic. All the key principles of law are being violated. Everything collapses, everything disappears beneath us. He's not coming out, I guarantee you, and you can't talk him out of it. Because a man knows, he's in Belgrade, he's in the Assembly. He won't come out because he knows, he's embarrassed, he won't be met tomorrow by his students and told him what kind of law you have, how you teach us one thing here, and then you tell us about something else. That's why he won't. Those who don't know anything about it can come out, so they're going to hold political burdens, deal with their political opponents, that's legitimate, everyone has the right to do it. But when you need to know something and talk about it, it's a different story. And those here will not be of the ranks of power, and there are those who know, who will go forth and speak commendably of this law. I'm just asking you to think carefully about everything that's been said here, and because of the serious arguments that exist here. This isn't about political rematch, revenge, because no one has ever done this to you. This is about the initial chapel of political terror, the real dictatorship, which, rest assured, will produce catastrophic consequences in the future. As the Socialists had not ruled for more than 10-12 years, once had to come to an end, we were a minority partner for two years. Do you think in a year, three months, two years or five years you're going to get out of power, think about it, think about it, because if these laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9113	Mr. Wolfie, thank you, your time is up, 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9114	Here I am, just one more sentence. Think about it, because if these laws are passed by the principle of justice and justice, and the wrong, anti-legal, anti-constitutional, I'm afraid little will survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9115	I give my word to Mr. Katic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9116	Ladies and gentlemen, he really is a very hurtful member of 99th and I've come to the opportunity to officially advertise him. It is truly extremely ugly and inappropriate and uncivilized to go out with such qualifications. I have the impression that the qualifications that are being manipulated today have come because you are. You came from yourselves, when you represent such qualifications and attach them to others. It's actually the truth about you, it's you. You are indeed a major obstacle to Serbia's reform path. I would really like this Rules of Procedure to be respected, in order for this parliament to get the attention it needs. [[Vojislav Seselj, look for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9117	You have no right to a replica. He has the word Dragan Cholic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Finance and Economy Minister Mr Djelic said in his statement that this law has a moral background, that it removes all injustice in the economic and financial sphere and that it is deeply just. Mr. Djelic's morale is questionable. Where did he get the moral right to talk about the sufferings and injuries that Serbian citizens went through, when he himself didn't go through with us, or feel it? I understand him. He must have been mobilized to a bazaar Corps, which enjoyed a comfortable stay in Europe's largest cities, while Serbia bled out in front of the NATO Pact hordes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9119	Mr. Colic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9120	I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9121	It's the second minute, and you didn't start talking about the law at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9122	I'm talking about the presentation of Minister Djelic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9123	Do not talk about exposure, but about personality and moral qualities, please return to the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9124	Yeah, yeah. I referred to the presentation of Minister Djelic. That's why Serbia is unique. In its history, faith, tradition, culture and limitless pride of its citizens. Mr. Djelic is worried about what foreign investors are going to say. Who by economic sanctions tightened the circle around Serbia's throat and disrupted privatisation that would probably have been implemented if Europe wanted it, and Zoran Djindjic in 1994. These are your friends and Mr. Djindjic, whose help you have won power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9125	Mr. Colic, I'm giving you my first warning because you're not sticking to the subject of the agenda and after the warning. Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9126	Is the proposed law in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this country? No man of honor can have an understanding of criminal acts, criminal affairs, the robbery of a troubled people. It is fair that every abuse must be punished and all of them constitute a crime. For whom it is proved to have committed a crime, it is subject to the sanctions of the law and the court to determine whether someone is guilty or not, and then it is only then that the property obtained against it is seized. It is necessary to determine exactly who was taking and for what purposes the exchange rate should be in the official course. Many directors of state companies did so for legitimate reasons and invested it all in production. They shouldn't come under the law. Those who have credited trade have benefited by committing a crime must come under the threat of justice, and it is not simple, nor unique, as Minister Djelic said. What does that mean if the tax collector checks in himself and gets a discount of 35%? I guess he's bound to do it, and for something that's bound to give you a discount of 35%, then what's the reward? It is also indicative of the unintended use of solidarity logs, which should be severely sanctioned. Serbian citizens cut off their modest incomes for solidarity logs to be paid to those whose kind of assistance was necessary. All of these can be implemented through positive legislation. Didn't the Government of the Republic of Serbia set up a Commission to investigate criminal affairs? Why did you stop halfway? Has Vuk Obradovic strayed from Djindjic's path and stepped on someone from DOS, a deserved revolutionary. That's not supposed to happen. True, the revolution eats its children, who have not yet enjoyed the fruits of their bulldozer revolution. The property of Zoran Djindjic is not for underestimation. It must have a respectable effect on the members of the Commission's government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9127	Mr. Colic, I'm giving you a second warning because you're not sticking to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9128	Your DOS "Evening News", which is governed by your Vanja Vukotic, announced yesterday on the other side the following, quote - The Democratic Party usurped all power. She rules on behalf of the entire DOS. They control all the cash flows, all the public enterprises, most of the municipalities, all the banks and customs. Zoran Djindjic and Ceda Jovanovic hold all the strings in this country, the end of the quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9129	Mr. Colic, I take your word for it, since even after two warnings and my warnings, you're not talking about the law at all, but you're making some facts that have nothing to do with this. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic. (Employer Seselj, from the post, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9130	Madam Vice President, you've injured the Rules of Procedure because you've prevented the MP from speaking, and he's talking about exactly what's on the agenda. He was sticking to the agenda. He just concreteized things that the law would have to apply to. And then you interrupted him, you gave him warnings, and you took away his word. Because if this law will not apply to Zoran Djindjic and Cedomir Jovanovic, who will it apply to?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9131	Which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9132	Article 98. He was sticking to the agenda. Because if it can be mentioned Tomislav Nikolic and my mother, which Zoran Djindjic and Cedomir Jovanovic cannot. If this law does not apply to Zoran Djindjic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Dusan Mihajlovic and Nebojsa Covic, then it is essential to discuss it at all. There's not a single man on whom this law could be applied until it's applied to four of them first. Because, you see, Cedomir Jovanovic, he's got so many cars, he's got state security. When did the head of the parliamentary group have state security? Is that an obvious abuse? Is that a robbery of charms? Twenty people have to pay for him to be provided with something.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9133	Mr. Seselj, you have no right to flaunt. You've recalculated the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9134	This isn't controversy. I'm just proving here that you've broken the Rules of Procedure. If you admit that you have violated, Ambassador Colic will continue to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9135	He can't, of course. I think I acted in accordance with article 100 and I was right when I took his word. If you're not satisfied, Mr. Seselj, I can put it to a vote. No, you don't. All right, you don't have to. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic, second call? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9136	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, if until the arrival of the DOS to power Serbia was a society where citizens could be treated differently under the law, as of 5 October, and since 26 January, we are all the same before the law. And Mr. Seselj, Dusan Mihajlovic, Slobodan Milosevic, Cedomir Jovanovic and Zoran Djindjic and this bill that we are discussing today confirms something so. But we're going to be very difficult, not only because we don't want to have anything like that with our predecessors, but because of what we've done, we're people who will treat that law. But let the Commission decide. Let this Parliament decide. Let those questions be resolved at last. But those who disavow parliament, humiliate it with their irresponsible behavior, do much less harm to us as individuals who are subject to such a relationship, and much more to society. Because what kind of society we need to be if we're like his representatives, the way we are. Let the Commission do its job, so when it finds a house with nine bedrooms, such as the house of Mr. Seselj, which was legaled on 4 October 2000, the day before 5 October, which was built on the plot that was assigned to it, and the citizens of Batajnica pay 700 marks, it got free of charge, because it is more valuable than they are. Finally, yesterday the public was convinced that those who certainly do not deserve the shame faced by Mr. Seselj, with his behaviour here, and one more than an incorrect relationship with something that is national shame. This parliament will deal, among other things, with organised war crimes, and in such a way as to remove collective responsibility from our society, as at the moment it deals with the issue of an organized robbery, in order to remove such a kind of fraud and free our citizens in the sense that they have so far been subject to terrorism and the subject of one repression, which in itself was logical when it comes to seeing who were the representatives who allegedly dealt with the law and order.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9137	First, let me inform you that the session of the Legislative Committee today is at 12 o'clock, in the downstairs hall, and the session of the Finance Committee will be held in the session session session at the 48th floor on the second floor. There is a word from MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9138	Dear People's MPs, Serbian citizens were anxiously looking forward to the law on one-off income tax and extra property acquired by taking advantage of business benefits coming to the People's Assembly's agenda. The Commission led by already replaced President Vuko Obradovic finished part of its work, delivered a report to the government, whether signed by all members or not, I do not know whether there is a clause - top secret - I do not know, but we MPs, if we are to receive a report from the Commission, we can find out, and they say the report is available to us, as the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Ceda Jovanovic. If so, I suggest that this report be delivered to the MPs and become an integral part of the law. Because if the budget inspection report could be an integral part of the final bill for 2000, why wouldn't the 50-page Commission report be an integral part of this law. The law on one-off income tax and extra property acquired by the use of special benefits is purely political law. He wants to deal with political inexperiences. Article 4 of the Law mentions a natural or legal person who, in a period of time and in a manner referred to in Article 2 of this Act, has made extra income or acquired extra property without paying the relevant taxes. The basis for the adoption of the law is found in Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which declares that everyone is obliged to pay taxes and other taxes laid down by law and in Article 69(3). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which declares that the obligation to pay taxes and other taxes is determined according to the economic power of the taxpayers. But this law is contrary to the federal Transport Tax Act. The SPS parliamentary group has always been for the detection and fair determination of any physical and legal person who has acquired extra income or extra property. However, the proposed law is based on assumptions and subjective estimates of extra income and extra assets. The democratic opposition to Serbia, in the bill, uses categories of socialist goods production, such as income, extra income and extra profit. Socialist self-government and socio-economic relations did not know the category of extra profits and profits, but they knew the categories of extra income, income and extra profits. The law refers to the period from 1.1.1989, and we need to know that it is a period that broke up with the categories mentioned, a transition that is still going on, a market economy has been reformed, among other things, and private property. If the subject matter of taxation is extra income, then it should be defined as an surplus above the average income, which is realised within the corresponding industries and economies as a whole. Although there are several types of extra income in the economy, such as technological extra income, conukturous extra income, extra income based on modern market structures, extra income based on favourable economic circumstances and institutional extra income. The bill mainly refers to institutional extra income. This extra income is defined in the economy as income generated by appropriate economic policy measures, formulated and implemented by the country's government. Article 3 of the Law provides for transactions from which the subject of taxation arises. In Article 3(1), the subject of taxation is the use of primary money and grey economy funds in financial transactions. It is true that funds have been given to state and social enterprises to speed up production and to ensure price stability, thus ensuring the standard of citizens. I agree that whoever misusing the funds, who hasn't used the funds in production, is sanctioned, so from one who hasn't spent the funds on purpose, should, if there's extra profits and extra profits, be charged. Or how to comment that the subject of taxation is imports and distribution of excise products, without paying customs duties, other import duties, excise duties and sales taxes? If it is established that someone has not paid the prescribed obligation, within the meaning of the Act on Excises and Tax on Transport, there is a payment solution with the corresponding interest, and a natural and legal person is prosecuted under the Criminal Code for the Doing of Crime. And it wasn't just him, it was him who provided it. That the proposed law is discriminatory and that it is aimed at eliminating and compromising political opponents, i.e. non-insistant, points 12 and 13 of Article 3 of the proposed law. The illegal extra income and illegal extra property was not acquired in the residential area as indicated by these points. It mentions only the purchase of an apartment, larger than that of the award criteria by the elected, appointed or appointed official, the political party's functioner, the director or member of the managing authority, the legal person in the state, social and mixed property, with the precise participation of social capital. It's about using a buy-in loan, or buying-in of an apartment. However, illegal extra income was obtained in the residential area by replacing a larger social apartment for a smaller one, with a high fee. There are examples of individual apartments of 120 square meters being replaced for the garrisoniers in order to accommodate several thousand marks. It was also obtained by selling tenants' rights, unintended use of housing loans to build houses and holiday apartments, using more than one social apartment and renting these apartments and apartments in private property with high leases. The liberalisation of real estate traffic has created many agencies that have also contributed to illegal extra income. There's not a single word about all this in the proposed law. The question arises - is this bill calling into question one of the basic tax rights, the right to tax equality, which is linked to the concept of rights. Any determination of extra income on the basis of the calculators, which are the source of the need for a political moment, creates the possibility of calming market flows and the relationship to economic operators. It is a controversial Article of the 9th Law where it is said that, in situations where a taxpayer has earned income on a number of grounds, the property will be paid by the Director of the Republic of the Public Revenue Administration to conclude with him an agreement on what is the tax liability. The taxpayer referred to in Article 4 of the Law is obliged to submit a tax application, within the meaning of Article 11 of the proposed law, where the tax base, which may be subject to control by the tax authority, cannot therefore negotiate how the law will apply. Furthermore, Article 13 of the Law provides that the taxpayer, i.e. the second taxable person referred to in Article 11(1) of this Act, has the right to reduce the established tax liability of 35 %, if the tax returns state all the necessary credible data. From the point of view of systemic solutions, in the Law on Income Tax and the Tax on Corporate Profit, it is an obligation for natural legal persons to provide accurate data to the tax authority. If they do not, legal sanctions are provided for, and therefore no tax relief should be given to anyone, if that is his obligation. Where a one-time tax is established on one of the envisaged procedures, tax charges shall be paid. A one-time tax shall be due within 15 days of the date of delivery of the first-degree settlement. Regular payment of a one-time tax is made in money, it says in stamps, I don't know if it makes the mark legal as a means of payment, and especially in the case of legal persons in social property, i.e. mixed property, with excessive social capital participation, which are not able to pay the tax in money, by handing over the Republic of the corresponding share in the capital of such legal entities. That's where we come to the truth. Since social enterprises will not have the opportunity to pay in money, they will be forced to hand over the republic's corresponding share of capital, and the fact state becomes the owner. After the adoption of this law, it's the privatisation law, so it all becomes clear. It is only unclear why Article 16 of the Law provides for the confidentiality of the data, which is in the process of establishing a one-time tax. Who's afraid of the public? However, this law is only a DOS platform for elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9139	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a single tax law on extra income and extra property on the agenda. I will admit that we have disappointed our voters and that this law should have been passed at the first session of the National Assembly. These are citizens, who invested enormous energy, especially on October 5th, expected of us. They expected us to quickly and effectively, right after the change, end up with thieves and a thief's system. I share the disappointment of the citizens, but I will vote in favour of this bill and I would agree with the part of the opposition, the former government of the red and black coalition, that this law did not cover all the property that was illegally acquired. But in the last term, we proposed a law that was quoted yesterday by Mr. Bane Ivkovic. We have suggested that all assets acquired in the last 10 years be examined, if the value of that property is greater than 500,000 marks. That law is here. I'd like to ask Mr. Ivkovic, and he's not here today, or his party comrades -- why did they refuse that bill when they were in power? I can draw the conclusion that they did it because it was about them and some of their party buddies. If that law did not apply to them, why did they reject it? Why were they guarding criminals who robbed the state in the last 10 years in the Latin American way? Yesterday, Mr. Ivkovic spoke precisely about the bill, which was proposed more than a year and a half ago. Not that they didn't put it on the agenda in business, but even when we asked here to put it on the agenda as an addition to the agenda, they almost unanimously refused. Today they say this law is not good, that even better law should be passed. They had that law, but they turned it down. Why are they doing this? Here I have evidence -- the Belgrade bank AD Belgrade proves why we need a law like this. October 5th, we all know what happened on October 5th, someone is looking forward to it, someone is grieving, it's normal, but the Belgrade bank AD Belgrade, which the former red-black coalition, signed by one vice president, authorised to conduct foreign exchange operations for the benefit of the Serbian state, sold 6 dinar foreign exchanges on October 5th. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: To whom? I'll tell who. She sold them by not taking the money for them, but by paying the foreign exchanges to the burden of the Belgrade bank AD Belgrade. If Borka Vukic was stealing like that, then Mr. Vice President of the former government certainly held the ladder as she climbed across the roof. I've got orders here to take foreign exchanges out of the country, to sell foreign exchanges on October 5th for six dinars, and the street course was 40 dinars. I've got 20 warrants. I'm so trapped. All the results are on different names, but the passport number is the same as -434. On October 5th, while the people decided to break up with such phenomena and bearers of such phenomena, they sold foreign exchanges of six dinars, with a warrant to get out of the country. The sale was carried out on the burden of the Belgrade bank AD Belgrade, which was authorised by the former Deputy Prime Minister to run foreign affairs of interest for the state? I can conclude that that's how the former Deputy Prime Minister legalized the robbery. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Which? After the noise, it will be that the gentleman has recognized himself. I'm going to deliver orders to the government, I'm not going to mention names, and the passport number is the same everywhere - 434. (President: I ask the People's MPs to listen to the MP for the speaker and to respect the Rules of Procedure. I can tell a gentleman who's making so much noise, and as soon as he's making so much noise, there's no argument or he's afraid. He's afraid for those nine rooms. He can put in any room one apostolic girl he came here in. As soon as the gentleman's making so much noise, he's afraid of this evidence. They're authentic. I'll hand a copy to him. I'm saying this in favor of why we needed this law. Our biggest criminals haven't done anything illegal at all. They wrote either at the red-and-black coalition ordered the law they needed, so that the robbery would be legalized, that it would be organised and that the law would not be sanctioned. If Dusan's code were in force and two-thirds of the 36-member government had been cut off for stealing -- and they had so many members that they didn't know for themselves how many members of the government, if they had lost five-six in some joint, they wouldn't even know they had lost them -- two-thirds would have been cripples. We would have a duke today without hands. There is numerous evidence that one percent of those who have been rich in the past 10 years have been poored by 99% of the middle-aged citizens. That's why we need a bill like this. Therefore, it should also be adopted with government representatives to verify the property of other persons who have acquired material property in various illegal ways - that the property is returned and the guilty are punished. I will give an example to Croatia. When Tudjman's regime was leaving, the former Croatian interior minister gave orders on the last days of his term to arrest his tourism minister's colleague, immediately the next day, for stealing 200,000 marks. Of those 200,000 marks, he bought an apartment. This is where apartments that are measured in aris and hectares, houses with 9 rooms, crying that you can have three football courts, etc. Since the Croatian minister had the strength, the old minister, to issue a warrant on the last day of his term of office to arrest his colleague, it was not the case with us and I expect our new government to issue a warrant and arrest the old government, how many members of the former government here today are making a fuss. I also said in my former term why we need a law on the investigation of the origin of property or, as it is now called, a law on one-time income tax. If Al Kapone were alive by chance and lived in Serbia for the last 10 years, he'd be a small fish of spit for our criminals. I think they'd cut him off and charge him for the racket. I don't think they'd even take him to the JUL Directorate, as small as he was. I appeal to all MPs, including opposition MPs, to carefully measure before the vote and determine whether they should vote in favour of this law. Because unless they vote, they may be suspected of their honesty. I recommend they put a finger on their head, think about it and vote for this bill. We DOS will certainly vote in favour of this bill, in a firm hope that it will be firmly implemented and applied to everything. So we'll put an end to the robbery, the point to misery and the point to shame. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9141	The National Salack Vojislav Seselj demands a replica. I'd just like you to tell me the basis of the replica before I give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9142	The basis of the replica is that my function is mentioned - Deputy Prime Minister. It's also said -- the one who's making noises here. I guess he meant me, 'cause I'm the only one who's yelling.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9143	People's MP Seselj, most of the MPs who were present here were making a fuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9144	I'm the only former Deputy Prime Minister of the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9145	Mr. Former Deputy Prime Minister was recognised in part by Mr. National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9146	Not in the text, but in his speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9147	In his speech concerning the signing of invoices and the delivery of foreign exchanges from the Belgrade Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9148	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9150	It's very interesting, for the first time, I must confess, essentially satisfied with the exposure of Marijan Rističević. There's only a few small gaps. But the essence of his speech is good. That's where we completely agree - everyone who broke the law should be punished. Anything illegally acquired should be taken away. What's the problem? The problem is there's a provision in this law that there's a possibility of a settlement. Secondly, as far as the Belgrade Bank is concerned, it is our largest bank. Who can get the right to such transactions if this bank can't? Marijan Risticevic was supposed to bring up names here who took foreign exchanges and not to mention passport numbers, because that 433 is not a number of passports, but rather a number of financial transactions. To say and see who might have stolen the foreign exchanges. The problem is this law that he's against, but there's a Criminal Law, by which everything that's stated can be prosecuted, without the possibility of a settlement. You might even be willing to accept this proposal by Marijan Risticevic, to introduce the application of Dusan's code, so who stole his hand to be cut off. There's only one danger. If we make that precedent, then we introduce Dusan's code and start cutting hands, it might come to someone's mind that we also introduce an ancient Sparta code, and there they are, as Marian Rističević was throwing at the break-in as soon as they were born.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9151	National MP Branislav Ivkovic, the basis for the replica? National MP Risticevic mentioned Mr Ivkovic three times in the context of law enforcement. Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9152	Everyone behind this speaker, and this is the achievement of a democratic state, which has been created especially since 1990, when, with the help of the Socialist Party of Serbia, multi-party parliamentaryism was introduced and when all parties from this climate could, depending on the support of citizens, be in the Assembly, have the right to speak and not to answer for what it says. Of course, everything he says about this speaker is about him, about his family, about his education. As far as the proposed law is concerned, yesterday in a 20-minute statement, I pointed out that the Socialists absolutely support the idea of passing such a law. I pointed out that this idea was not consistently implemented in the text and that the text was disappointing, from that point of view, that it was unacceptable and that we expect that our amendments would be accepted and that, if they were accepted, we would vote in favour of this law. Why are we disappointed? We are disappointed that this law is going towards introducing a single-party system, because the regime in question will be able, beyond the judicial systems for those who are through the institutional framework, only through that framework, to acquire a personal wealth or a fortune for the company, to assess in negotiations whether someone is like him, and to make compromises or unsatisfactory, and to destroy it until the end. So this law is essentially how it's imagined is both the knife and the cake in the hands of individuals who are now in power. But there's one part that the law doesn't cover at all. I was the part, preparing for the presentation, found in the proposal by legislator Marijan Risticevic, the truth was, two years ago, submitted to the Assembly, so first of all, the area of the "grey economy". I think it's a party's fault that I belong to that law as an idea that it did not accept it, that it should be further elaborated and that, in essence, it should carry out the punishment of corruption and crime in the field of "grey economy". In that sense, in my opinion, Mr. Marijan Risticevic had absolutely the right in his idea that such a law, which unfortunately is not in any part of the proposed law by the government, was adopted. If you want, anyone in power is wrong and I say this was a mistake. Why was it a mistake? Because of the embargo, for harassing this people. Two-thirds of the economy was in the "syvoe economy". Which is the difference and why the better one who illegally acquired through the "grey economy" steam, built swimming pools, built tennis courts, built houses, built factories, built factories, why he is decent and not subject to the proposed law of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and is subject to someone who has been functioned and won an apartment, as they do today. We will discuss this in the course of today and tomorrow's debate on the law on extra profit. Therefore, the fundamental flaw of this proposal is precisely that there are no elements of Mr. Marijan Rističević's bill two years ago, no coverage of the "grey economy" and then says that the law was directly insinuated, that it was only directed towards those who could through institutional systems make potentially extra profit and forget all those who were far from the authorities, but were very close to the thief, the "sioeconomy" and the creation of capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9153	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milka Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9154	I point out the violation of Rule 101, Mr. Ivkovic's Rules of Procedure, and ask Mr. Ivkovic to give him a warning, he says - if he uses curses and offensive expressions. He did not swear, but he used an offensive term, as he said democracy has been the most developed in this country since 1990, by the Socialist Party of Serbia. Since all the postulates of democracy were destroyed, the people were destroyed, the dignity, the morals, everything that exists in this country, in this way Mr. Ivkovic insulted the citizens of Serbia and alarmed them again, because they were just a little relaxed, believing that they had finally freed themselves and because he insulted and upset the citizens of Serbia, I ask that he be warned about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9155	I ask the MPs to listen to the explanation under the appeal of MP Milka Marinkovic at the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to her point of view that MP Branislav Ivkovic was insultingly expressing himself and commenting on the development of democracy in Serbia. Since the person entrusted with the National Assembly's presidency is in charge of interpreting the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask that an insult at this level of expression on who has been developing democracy and when, where, by sharing our efforts to develop democracy now and here. If the MP is not satisfied with the explanation of this position and its objection to the Rules of Procedure, does he want a statement? No, I don't. It is much simpler, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to decide that one of us, to whom the President of the National Assembly trusts, decides to hold a session of the Assembly, than to have 250 of us do so. Mr. Ivkovic was mentioned in the objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of MP Milka Marinkovic and since the practice at the previous sessions was to allow replicas in such situations, Mr. Ivkovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9156	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I want to say that I support absolutely your position that you have just shown that each of us, and especially the MPs, the representatives of Serbian citizens, have the obligation to develop democracy and I think we need to get out of our behaviour, because the passion absolutely paints and personally dissatisfaction in many other kinds of lives of each of us, and in that sense I want to support your exposure, but the fact that, let me say, the elections have been in great numbers since 1989 and 1990, that a multiparty system has been established, that the parties could participate in the elections, have had representatives in this parliament, some have been in the majority, some have been in the minority and that this is a natural path towards democracy. The fact is that the terms currently used in the draft laws of the Dossom government are actually terms of the socialist self-management system, extra income, income, etc., precisely in the last decade, regardless of the impact of the international community, and we have introduced a market economy, profit terms, extra profit, but this obviously did not come from writers of this law, who were still on their PhDs in the field of socialist self-management.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9157	National MP Rajko Baralic, objecting to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9158	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 95, I point to a violation of Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MP, who spoke of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, had just broken the Rules of Procedure. If, in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly, the MP is offended about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name, which was the case, or function, or misread his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication and so on. It is quite true that it is the wrong and maliciously interpreted sentence spoken by Dr Branislav Ivkovic. It is, in fact, true that parliamentary democracy, by its essence, has started to function since 1990. Is this democracy at the level of quality you expect, it's a political and philosophical issue. The functional state corresponds to what Dr Branislav Ivkovic said. I therefore ask the MPs of the people and ask that the People's Assembly be heard about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 96, paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9159	National MP Rajko Baralic has advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 96. Mr. Ivkovic is entitled to a replica. Whether MP Milka Marinkovic misread or not, Branislav Ivkovic, a national MP, explained in his presentation when he replicated. Does MP Rajko Baralic want a statement on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? He doesn't want to. ) There is a word from MP Milka Marinkovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Rajko Barilić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9160	I don't know since Mr. Baralic is Mr. Ivkovic's lawyer. He's gonna need another lawyer, as far as I know. I may misread all this, but the people interpreted it very correctly on September 23rd and December 24th. Therefore, Mr. Baralich, I may be wrong, but the people never do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9161	He has the word MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9162	I would ask all MPs in this assembly to respect the efforts of the chairman and to return to the agenda. I repeat, it is not good, it is not good for the citizens of Serbia, it is not good for us, for the MPs, it is not good for our reputation that our adversities that emanate, perhaps from our other internal troubles and dissatisfactions, dominates this assembly payphone. Let's get back to legal projects. Is there a part of the justice of modern Europe that implies that everyone is innocent until proven otherwise or is part of an Inquisition that implies that you are guilty until you prove yourself innocent? In the interest of Serbian citizens, we should do everything possible to raise production and raise citizens' standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9163	There is a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic. After him, the Messenger of the people, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9164	Perhaps the MPs were afraid that when I came to the pay phone, it was hard to move, even during the break. That's probably why they followed these lines. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a single tax on extra income and extra property acquired by the use of special benefits is mainly due to the work of the Commission which has been investigating abuses in the area of economy and financial business since 1 January 1989. The Commission found that many credit and loan beneficiaries for Serbia's rebirth did not repay loans (about 10 users) and other loans were nominally returned. Credits raised from loans for Serbia's economic development were used by 81 companies, and only 22 were returned in real terms. I must say, there's not a single firm in Jablani County on the list. Over 145 million loan marks have been approved. About 80 million marks have been returned effectively. The basis for taxation is the difference between the real value on the loan of the assets received and the real value returned in the use of commercial rather than the priced course. Course differences have been made in foreign exchange loans and incursion of dinar loans. The loss of dinar funds is due to the devaluement of dinars at the time of hyperinflation in 1992 and 1993, as debt was resupplying to unscathed dinars and resulting in large inflation gains. The average rate of foreign exchange payments is 73.7%. The largest tax base will be based on the use of funds from the primary mission. The Commission considers the base to be about a billion marks. The republican commission made a list of over 200 richest families in Serbia, according to some estimates 6,000 families managed Serbia. By reading the proposed law, what I could notice is that the problem with the law is to extra profit that hits the basic foundations of the market economy, which is to protect private property. Because of the violation of the principle of private property, and this law does it delicately, we will delay the introduction of a modern economic system. The law, or bill of law, has a predominantly psychological effect. This may be the only way to legalise the material wealth of individuals and to protect themselves by a new authority because the possibility of agreement between individuals and authorities is questionable. It is realistic to expect that many of the rich will avoid taxing deals with new authorities. This also points to a discount of 35% for those who report accurate income data within a month. Since I am not a lawyer by profession, after consulting them, I can state that the bill is unconstitutional and contrary to the Law on Liaison. Article 2 The bill states that a one-time tax is taxing property or extra income obtained in the period 1.1.1989 until the entry into force of this law. Why do you know that exactly? This is a past period and the law does not apply to past periods, but always to the period ahead and for the period in which it is brought (now period). Article 117. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Article 121. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the law and other general acts cannot have a feedback. Article 2 of the same articles states that only certain provisions of the law, if required by the general interest determined by their adoption, may have a feedback, which is not the case with this bill. The passing of this law reminds us of the period 1945 to 1950 when the hosts, based on the confiscation of assets and nationalisation, were taking away the property that this government is supposed to return today, and it has widely used in the pre-election campaign. I wouldn't want anyone to use it again in some future for pre-election purposes. The Serbian Radical Party is against any corruption and illegal affairs and has always fought and will fight it. However, prove that someone has obtained extra income and extra property by one of the basics of Article 3. The proposal for this law is exclusively the work of judicial authorities in criminal or criminal proceedings, not the Assembly. In these procedures, it must be proved to be a natural or legal person that it used certain advantages in business, that it intended to profit, or income, and that it had acquired it. It must also be borne in mind that this subject had this convenience because someone had provided him with the same guilt as the one who used those benefits. The flat-rate assessment of some inspection bodies, which are neither qualified nor trained to determine the circumstances necessary to obtain the so-called extra income, both natural and legal persons, are not quantifiable for judgment and decision-making in this matter. Extra income was regulated by the Accounting Act and legal and natural persons handed over their final accounts and paid taxes under then applicable legal regulations. The party shall be subject to a law which is more favourable at the time of the action, i.e. It's come about. According to the Federal Law on Bond Relations, if there is any monetary claim to the State, there are limitation deadlines (general period of 10 years and special deadlines for individual claims). In one rule of law, the application of a general law cannot be exceptional, which means that various specific laws of the Republic may exclude the general law matter, or its application for various cases, which then becomes a practice. This means that the rule of law doesn't work, that federal laws don't apply to all the cases provided for in the whole territory. The Republic laws must be in line with federal laws at least as long as there is a federal state. If there is an extra income in the case of a legal or natural person, its height must be determined and applied exactly when acquired due to the application of the general limitation period. If this unconstitutional law is passed, the Serbian Radical Party is asking for its application not to be selective and not to give the possibility to inspection bodies, as government authorities, that they decide on whom to exercise control rather than as the first positive example to be Prime Minister of Serbia, Mr Djindjic, of whom Croatian and world presses today, including ours, as the biggest magnum of cigarettes, and that he and Mr Mihajlovic explain under which benefits they acquired extra property because it is known from the press that Mr Dusan Mihajlovic is one of the 100 richest Yugoslavs. At the 1995 trial, Mr Djindjic claimed he was not in a working relationship at the time and claimed to have 150,000 marks of property. Today, this property, according to the writing of some sheets, is enormously larger, so how it acquired property and under what benefits if it was more of a working relationship. The Serbian Radical Party will continue to fight corruption, but not by passing unconstitutional laws, but by applying positive regulations and by passing constitutional laws. It is incomprehensible that in Article 6 of the proposed law under a family household member, a divorced spouse or relatives are meant to be related to each other, including relatives by means of a divorced spouse. So who contacts a divorced mate or his family with his ex - spouse, let alone a member of his household because he lives with him. Divorced mates of the Inheritance Act rule out, and they must, in a litigation procedure, prove common acquired property, or in court to establish a legacy mass. There's also a professor of law school here, so I'd like to ask the legislator to have at least the professors review the legal texts you're delivering to us, the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9165	Mr. Rajko Baralic advertised that he didn't get a word in the replica... (exhales) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9166	First Article 28 was injured. The Rules of Procedure, which he says, among other things, that the President of the Assembly or the one who holds the presidency is obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The 80th is talking about quorum and there is a member of 113th and 114th who says that MPs should be fundamentally honest and when they come out of the hall they put their card in their pocket, not that the screen speaks one thing and the other. Let's just be honest, I'm not asking for a quorum at all, so there's no confusion, I'm just asking that the chairman, except that they're trying to get the MPs in line, and the ministers never, except that they make warnings and when they follow, and when they don't, because they're sitting next and they're having an examination of the whole room, they can see if there's a card somewhere, and there's no present, and they're counting on it, or at least the secretary to get him to do the technical part of the job and to hire the Service to do what he needs to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9167	National MP Stevan Guduric has advertised injuries to members of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, Articles 28, 80 and 113. In Article 28 on the application of the Rules of Procedure, the Chair shall take care of itself. As for Members of the 80th and National MPs' records on the presence in the hall, the chairman can see the MPs at the same time, but he cannot keep track of where any parliamentary unit is filled in, both physically and with a card, because he has to monitor and write down the contents of what the MP is doing at the pay phone. Otherwise, it is the obligation of the congregation service, not the chairman. So in the area in which the chairman should inform the congregation services to do his job, I agree that the Rules of Procedure may be broken. Is the MP satisfied with the explanation or do you want us to vote on the violations of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. There is a word from the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9168	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am advocating the Rules of Procedure in Article 114, which says that MPs are obliged to carry the identification card with them on their way out of the National Assembly Hall. In almost all the ranks where MPs sit, the high-speed card is now being removed from the parliamentary units. That's what I see from here, so where MPs of the so-called Democratic opposition of Serbia sit, the cards are inserted, and they are not present in the hall. You said nicely that the Service should do the job, but since someone in charge of the Assembly Service is next to you, Secretary of the Office Georgia Maric, we should make sure that the Service is up to date, to collect these cards, and we will find that we do not have a quorum to work with.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9169	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, through an intervention on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, apparently concluded in the contents of her speech that the accelerated situation in the Assembly is coming down and running with the obligations in the Rules of Procedure, so I realize that her intervention has already reduced the possibility of this member being violated and brought things into order. Would you like to get a special vote on the violation of this member? No, I don't. I will be very pleased to bring order to this room and to our country and wherever the interests of the people are. There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Dejan Mihajlov, and after him, Božidar Vujić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9170	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am glad that some MPs insist on applying the Rules of Procedure and it would be good for them to do so all the time and not only for individual members, but for everyone else. This would certainly bring much more order into this congregation and respect not for the MPs themselves, but also for the citizens who are watching us. But well, it's on them and on their personal and party work. But let's go back to the law. Justice, gentlemen, is slow or affordable. Those who had been in power for the past 12 years, since the law should be in force, and destroyed this Serbia, thought that the hand of justice would never reach them and that what they had done all these years would continue to work. This law is justice for all those people who have lived for the last 12 years from three stamps of wages or pensions, who have been printed in various rows, whose children have been going through wars, while others, sitting in these benches, have been rich in various ways, earning extra profits, and who have bought apartments, houses, construction firms, education of children abroad, while their children have spent their life experience in trenches, battlefields, basements without electricity and bombs. This is why this law is just and why it must be passed. It is a DOS obligation, which represents citizens and works for citizens who have elected it, and that is something that every citizen of this country agrees with, which must be done. This law is a one-time taxation. He'll apply once. He's not unique in legal history. There have been laws like this before, as some MPs have been instructed, and it is good for this law to be introduced and taught to us and everyone else that we should not behave while we are in power. Not all ways of robbing Serbian citizens can be counted. I'll try to do that, maybe nechronologically. I will try to list -- a loan for Serbia's rebirth, a savings bank like Dafina and Jazda, which were blessed, as we heard from Mr Dinkic, from the top of the former regime, existed and robbed our citizens, then we have inflation which is the worst form of taxation of our citizens, old foreign currency savings, various monetary shocks that have been enough and have just served to make individuals and individual banks rich, while citizens are additionally poor. We have smuggling, crowds, Mr. Prime Minister mentioned that only in three years, 700 tonnes of tobacco was taxed and that excise duty was paid to 700 tonnes, and only 800 tonnes of tobacco was paid in one month, where excise duties were placed. Smuggling is one of the sources of funds for those who have had the chance to smuggle. There are import contingents, loans from the primary show, and there are, of course, apartments, heritage villas, which individuals have received and which, of course, they should pay nicely. All those who got the villa because they were overly important and valuable personnel, above their needs, or if it's some other or third apartment, second or third villa, gentlemen, they should pay. Our citizens lived badly, and many young people left the country just because they didn't have the money to pay a rent to a tenant, because someone was spreading to two or three apartments, and they, if they worked for a salary of 100 marks, couldn't pay 200 rent marks. Now, gentlemen, those who did this have to pay and that's our duty. It's the obligation of all those who speak for and against here. It is simply a moral obligation for children, for those who do not sit in these benches, and for all the young who have left this country. That's why a law like this has to be passed. The procedure in this law must be effective and brief, and above all public, in order not to make it difficult for some to avoid the hand of justice, or this law. What is particularly important, and what we from the Democratic Party of Serbia are going to insist on, is that, in parallel to this law, other laws, especially criminal ones, are applied, so that those who have abused their position will also be held accountable by criminal law, which is as important as the responsibility under this law. This is, first of all, financial responsibility. It is important to us that all those who have sinned against the law respond to the law. That this law can be fixed - that's true. I'm going to bring out a few things that are important to make this law better. That's what we can't agree on, that there's an institute of bargaining, that he's now formulated in law. Various amendments have also been submitted. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has also tabled an amendment that this Article 9, as it stands now, is being deleted. We will vote for that member to be deleted, since we believe it is not good in society, which applies to one of the most corrupt in the world and in Europe, that there is one member by which the tax authority will be able to negotiate with the taxpayer. We feel that this is not good and that this should change, during this debate and the vote for amendments. The other thing is secrecy. This law is public and secrecy under this law is guaranteed only for some information that does not fall under the authority of this law. But if someone buys an apartment or something that may not be directly under this law, or they've acquired some means, in some other way, that may not be illegal, I don't think it's a secret and that it should be known. It should be known, because all those who fall under this law have earned certain things over the back of our citizens, that these data should be known. Our citizens are for the record, they need to hear that information, because, anyway, why would all this work if they didn't know? The public is exactly the corrective factor that citizens need to protect from any government, and we know that power in its nature is corrupting some people, so we need to protect them from these people who will participate in this and in all the following authorities. That's why we want to establish an institute of public work, that there's nothing to do with citizens which is secret, that every penny that separates citizens from knowing where they're going. That's why we advocate the absolute public in the implementation of these laws. Lastly, which is equally important, the passing of this law does not establish control of its implementation. This law does not provide for the control of the enforcement of this law. We have provided in the amendment that the Supervisory Board is in control of the implementation of this law and that it can hire professional legal and natural persons for these purposes, which will provide assistance. As we're against any negotiation, we feel there should be control. The control of this Parliament must absolutely exist, for several reasons. The first is that this is a special law that is retroactively applied, which has one-time use, and which can lead to a variety of differences and probably a variety of unpleasant circumstances for the individual. There must therefore be absolute control of the work of the Commission and of the tax authority responsible to implement this law. That control must be established precisely by this assembly, the committee responsible, has to be expert. That is why we predict that the committee in charge can hire an expert who will exercise control over him. We also believe that the implementation of this law is good for the citizens of Serbia. It is good because all those who have been rich in other people's torment will be brought to justice. As for DOS authorities, especially the Democratic Party of Serbia, it will put an end to the robbery of citizens, that the manner that existed all these years in Serbia is definitely where it belongs, which means in history.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9171	I must really thank the People's MP, Michael, who has strictly stuck to the subject, the limited time, and has not caused any replicas. I give the People's Messenger to Bozidar Vujic. (People's MP Gudurić - according to the Rules of Procedure) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9172	Whatever you want, it's a shame to work with less than 100 people. If Mr. Secretary got up ten minutes ago, he could've found someone to pick up the cards, 'cause as many cards as there's no table in the O.R. Let's at least respect ourselves. If you DOS guys don't sit down when we talk, and now more of your talk behind the pay phone, at least respect yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9173	Mr. Guduric, if I understand you correctly, you're asking us to establish the quorum. (Employer Guduric, from the scene: absolutely. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party to insert their cards. It is your duty, as well as all MPs, to insert your cards into the MPs' units, especially as you are the most applying for the discussion. Please insert your cards. I ask the service to count the members of the Parliament present in the O.R. I find that we do not have a quorum, and since the meetings of the Legislative Committee and the Finance Committee are held, I suggest we set a break by 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-14-0.u9174	Please confirm the quorum. I find that we do not have the quorum needed to work, and we continue the session Monday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 150 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Laslo Torde, Branko Ružić, Branislav Pomorijski, Jon Cismash, Momcilo Trajković, Zoran Bošković, Petar Misic, Branimir Trajkovic, Željko Tomić, Anton Biaci, Mihajlo Marković, Vladan Jovičić, Miroslav Markicevic. Only in the morning is Vojislav Obradović, Branislav Grubački, Branko Besevic and Branko Gligorić, and Stanko Kovacevic in the afternoon. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON A SINGLE ISSUE ON EXTRA REVENTION AND EXTRA IMPROVED PURPOSE OF SPECIFIC REFERENCES (resumption) The word has a National MP Bozidar Vujić and then a National MP Stanko Kovačević.
