ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4869	Dear People's MPs, at yesterday's session, a move away from the session by the National Assembly, the MP and the president of the SRS parliamentary group, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. On this occasion, the Rules of Procedure were injured in both formal and material terms. In a formal sense, the Rules of Procedure have been injured by the fact that the motion for a distance from the session was carried out by the MP, whose proposal was also voted on. Article 100(3) The Rules of Procedure have been decidently provided that only the National Assembly, on a proposal from the National Assembly, can place a measure of distance from the session. So, only on the proposal of the National Assembly President, not the MP, can this measure be expressed. For what? Because in Article 100, the president of the National Assembly is the one whom the Rules of Procedure undertakes to take care of the order at the sitting. In a material sense, the Rules of Procedure were injured by the fact that Prof. Vojislav Seselj did not make any of the actions provided for in Article 103(2), on the basis of which the National Assembly decided to exclude him or her from the session. Article 103(2) The Rules of Procedure are taxing these cases. It's a case of a physical attack by the MP, whom you all witnessed, there wasn't. In other words, a similar procedure endangering the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session in the National Assembly building. No participants in the session were in any way threatened, not physically, nor the moral integrity of the MP and head of the SRS parliamentary club, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. In addition, the president of the National Assembly injured Article 93(3). The Rules of Procedure, since after the measure of distance from the meeting of the People’s Parliament was expressed, has self-initiatedly interrupted the work of the National Assembly, although it can only be done if the National Assembly becomes known about it. The fact is, the National Assembly did not declare it. Due to such a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure by the president of the National Assembly, which is undoubtedly, we expect the president of the National Assembly to resign. Thank you. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4870	Are you expecting an answer? The Gordana Pop-Lazic from the scene: Normal. ) The answer is this: You used unauthorized notes. The official and real document of the stenographic notes, from that session can be used after authorization. So, we had a situation yesterday that the MP raised an objection to the violation of Rules 99, 101 and 103, which found that as President of the National Assembly, I failed to do what the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do, which is to suggest a measure of distance from Mr Vojislav Seselj's session. The National Assembly has declared this and a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been established, and after which I, on the basis of a proposal from the People's Parliament, have proposed a decision to the National Assembly. So you'll have it in the aturized text that, by the way, I haven't had time to look at. It is, therefore, the original proposal of the People's Sender, but the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure has not been violated. As for the other objections, I have no intention of resigning for the time being. Thanks for the suggestion. What can I do for you, according to the Rules of Procedure? Are you asking for this House to plead? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday something happened in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that shouldn't have happened. Something has happened that has not happened in the past 11 years of a multi-party system or pluralism in Serbia and the SRJ. In a brutal way, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or DOS regime, removed its largest political opponent from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in a brutal, inappropriate way, a way that is pre-chanced for the countries of dictatorship and worst autocracies. I'd ask the officers not to disturb me as I speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4872	And I ask Mr. Vukic to point out which member of the Rules of Procedure his objection, which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken without commenting on the decisions of the National Assembly, which may be commented at press conferences.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4873	Now, I'm going to read to you, and I'm going to try to translate to you by the knowledge of law, and I'm not even going to comment on your swearing yesterday morning, at 10 o'clock and 10 minutes, when you're cursing your mother to the MPs, and I'm not even going to comment on that, but I'm going to point out exactly, Mr. President, to violations of business standards, business regulations, member by member, and read to you what you forgot happened yesterday. For this pay phone, contrary to Article 100(3), Vlasimir Budimovic, I hope that I did not make a mistake in my last name as another yesterday, and said the following thing, among other things - I propose to the Assembly.... (President: Mr. Wolf, for the second time I warn you that we are not opening a debate here about what happened yesterday. Yesterday's session is over. Don't warn me, I have a business remark. (President: You may comment on the violation of the Rules of Procedure from today's session. I'm telling you where you broke the Rules of Procedure. (President: Yesterday. ) Because after that, you illegally and unlawfully interrupted the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. [[President: No, I took a break.]] Which makes you so afraid of the fact that you hurt the Rules of Procedure in a brutal way. (President: Because, Mr. Wolf, you are not talking about what's on the agenda, but you are returning to yesterday, and you have no right to do so. Because you don't want to hear the truth. You just heard, Mr. Martian, be patient, that's two minutes, it won't take much longer. (President: Promise? So, V. Budimirovic: "I propose to the Assembly and the President that we make a decision on Mr. Seselj's distance from the session." Mr. Martian behind that says, "I'll have to put your proposal to the vote first." And then he says, "I'm putting on a vote a proposal from the MP." Dr Vojislav Seselj cannot be removed from the Assembly Hall on a proposal from the People's Parliament. It can't be and it can't be in any way. As far as other matters are concerned, a material violation, you insulted the Serbian Radical Party's MPs in the worst way yesterday. You said the worst things. Yesterday, the one who waved and threatened from here said that some other nationalities were from who they were. It wasn't a cause for racial, national and religious hatred. Meho Omerovic from this pay phone said we slaughtered rusty spoons somewhere, and I don't know who, because of our dreams of big Serbia. Where are those who slaughtered and how were they slaughtered? What were they cursing? What, Mr. Omerovic, did you tell Mr. Seselj yesterday when you left the pay phone? What were you saying? Such terrible things have never been said to anyone. Never anyone. Come out and tell me what you said. Go out and tell everyone else. What was that about on a national basis, and why is it a material injury? Is that based on a national injury he told you? On a national basis, he wanted to calm down the situation, and you directed everything? What was he trying to say to you that there are a lot of non-Serbs in our party? Was that national-based, Mr. Omerovic? Is there, if what he threw out of place, what he said, and you throw every time, even now, and you curse, and the worst words can be spoken, so nothing, is that a characteristic word, that smoking, is that a characteristic word for some nations, so you can do that? Is that what you're throwing people out for, because they think otherwise? Don't throw and don't yell. (Applause by the Serbian Radical Party MPs.) What you think you can yell, that you can threaten and arrest... (President: Mr. Vukic, you speak for five minutes, and the Rules of Procedure have been established for three minutes and do not speak of what is on the agenda. I'm done. So, in both formal and material terms, the Rules of Procedure have been injured in the worst possible way. There's something that's a problem. It's an amazing thing that you're just looking forward to someone's arrests, to looking forward to the meaning of someone's liquidations, to looking forward to the meaning of someone's torment and someone's accident. It's amazing what you did yesterday, but I'm telling you, even if it lasts three months and a half years and a year, it won't last forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4874	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word. (Free Janjic, from the place: You gave me the right to too much and interrupted the session at yesterday's meeting. Yesterday's line on the line, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4875	In the dialect I speak, the dialect spoken in southern Serbia, never knew nor understood what the word balia means. On my municipal board, I have 110 members of the Muslim religion, both Serbs and Roma. I'll get that for you. I'll bring you 10 phone books, where there are citizens of all nationalities. I'll bring it to you at the next session, so do a survey after the sample. If one of them says I've been intolerant anywhere, I'll give up my parliamentary term myself. And I'd like to ask the camera, since I've also been named because of the green suit, I'm asking the cameraman to record -- the most beautiful green suits in the state of Serbia are making the Fashion Confection "Our Youth" - Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4876	The People's Messenger, Bozidar Vujic, has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we entered the third day of the debate on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act. This is just one of a series of laws that we're going to be working on in the field of economic social policy these days, in the field of labour legislation. What makes this law interesting to the public, including to all of us, and for which we are discussing, is that the important and root changes in it, in relation to the old legal solution that is still in place, and there is no. After all, these are the words of the Minister of Labour who said it for this speaker, not literally in those words, but saying that this is transitional, that this is a temporary and perhaps occasional solution, as a transition to something that an entire team in the Ministry, and also beyond, a whole team of experts is working to establish and organise labour legislation in this area, in the field of working relations, and in a different way than that so far. Maybe it would be okay, maybe the needs for this exist, but this is just one of the proofs of what this congregation has been doing since the first days, since the First Extraordinary Session, until today. As the privatisation minister suggested, the abolition of the Law on Ownership Transformation, on the other hand, requires that some and a large part of those provisions of the old law that has been abolished continue to apply, until a new one is passed. As far as we can tell from the press, there's been a series of public debates about the draft law. As the electric taxi law was abolished, only to collect electricity, and now some tax will be reintroduced and a subscription will be called. As the Law of the University was abolished, the new law was not passed, because the provisions of the old and the abolished law apply. As the Information Act has been abolished, and still remains valid until a new one is brought forward. And so this is one of those packages -- we take away the old ones that are valid until we get a new one. When we get a new one, trust us, we'll bring it. That's what DOSs say. What I've said down the road for this alluded speaker that there are experts in the Republic government, these experts have found institutions and organizations with the government and not the government, and here, indeed, an expert has been found. The expert is looking into the image and the Sunday of a union activist, now calling the minister, the independent minister, the Independent Association, the Association Union, an independent ministry. We got it all in his face. We have a great struggle to contribute to the budget as a basic matter, a budget for harassing, and this is the law to take away the rights and obligations that employees have had under the so far applicable law. The law does make partial adjustments to the adoption of a new law in the area, how many rights and protections within working relations, and even more in the area of criminal provisions. The basis for this, according to the explanation, lies in the fact that it moves on to gross earnings, lies in the fact that the guaranteed goes to minimum profit. It also lies in the fact that this way the grey economy is abolished. Look, wonders, where did we find the gray economy? We found it in warm meals because it's a grey economy, where the employer avoids paying taxes, taxes, taxis, harrases of the state, we found it in regressions, we found it in travel expenses, we found it in various other fees that employees get, and we found it at the expense of goods. All of this has been kind of tacitly recognised so far, all of which was in some way an expression of the closure of the social valve, all of which was somehow used to survive the population in conditions in which our country, and the predominantly economy, was under sanctions and blockade. Thanks to you, it seems that the blockades and sanctions are gone, thanks to you six billion arrived in this country, thanks to you, we will become an eldorado in Europe, and in that sense this is one of the series of these legal projects. You will eliminate the grey economy, surely, that businesses or employers in these companies, pay all that is legally due on the basis of contributions, taxes and taxes, and what remains for these so-called new gross earnings, which are now DOS profits, because it no longer matters whether they are net, gross or any other earnings. There won't be any more warm meals, there won't be any more payments for regresses, and there won't be any other fees. It will remain that salary, which is called gross earnings, and it will be as you created the ambience for the economy to start. You invented hot water, and by radical changes in the fiscal system you believe that by reverse order you will come to the start of the economy. Instead of starting a business, to create a basis for a rich society so that the fiscal system of states can be used and derived from all that it needs to take, to give afterwards to those who are users, you are going in reverse order. This people and this population will know that they appreciate it in the first election to come. You will eliminate that gray economy in that area. That's what you want and it'll be your only contribution. The workers will know they appreciate it. There have obviously been some replacements here, but there is no need to blame this famous expert - the association of independent union ministries. It came here to replace thesis. What was a real galamatias, which you're introducing now, we're really going to get to Mattia becoming Gusana, not Gusan Matji.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4878	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4879	By moving to the methodology of gross income and gross budget, the government proposes the first laws in the field of labour, or social policy, as representatives or individuals here have said, better said from this DOS corporation. This is the result of what they advocate - market behaviour and smart implementation or social policy. In the first part of market behaviour, they showed that they would respect their rule, because when it comes to tax policy, taking on the name of the tax, they are really market-based. They don't look at anyone who has market conditions, whether they're all under the same, or about the same conditions in which they operate, they take from everyone and put into the budget, or as the people say -- they take from someone else's pocket, they put it in their pocket. As far as smart social policy is concerned, you can see it on the first draft of the law. This law regulates two parts. Part relating to labour relations and part relating to the implementation of social policy, within working organisations. For the part that regulates working relationships, the termologically created replacement, instead of -- guaranteed earnings, is now talking about -- minimum earnings. The guaranteed earnings were something that had previously worked, the guaranteed profits were a percentage of the income average in the Republic, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The average profit or average amount was published by the Serbian government or the Yugoslav government, simply said state. By using data from official houses that are responsible for tracking statistical data. When this government proposed these changes, it erased its role in all of this. No longer will the average profit be announced by the government or the state. Now the average earnings are published by institutions that are authorized to monitor statistics, and the minimum earnings are determined by the director and the union. Director and union, if there's no board of directors. A question arises which union will negotiate with the director. Of course, the answer is always the same, or approximately similar -- majority. Which gentlemen, since when did you come to power - the majority union? The only thing that can be said is where your crisis headquarters are located. You only take these unions as relevant, you take them as real representatives of the workers. Countless examples are in the economy, in the working organizations where you did it. That union that is majority by membership, you declare it through your directors that the union is a regimeal, former regime, unconquered. Now you can think that the rights of workers will be protected when they negotiate and determine the price of minimum labour, i.e. the minimum wage, your director and your union. Woe to those workers that you protect in this way. Secondly, gentlemen, you have proposed this law, i.e. amending and supplementing the law, in order to carry out good basic preparations for your privatisation by model - strategic partner. In the part where you determine minimum earnings, and especially in the part where you propose minimum severance for those whose work has stopped the need, it's a good basis tomorrow for your strategic partners to fire most of the company's workers for fish treatment. What's your strategic partner's problem is that a working man from 25 to 30 years of age is counted on 750 marks. No problem at all. In this way, the burden, the labour force, will be resolved, one by one declared a technological surplus, given that severance, thanks to the very proposal, or amendments and additions to this law. You have established what are criteria and what is the rate of profit, from two to five months of average earnings. Gentlemen, you claim a nominal increase in the amount of workers. Yes, it's true. The basic elementary knowledge from mathematics, they say this is nominally larger, and let's see what has improved, realistically, the position of workers. The minimum profit expressed in stamps based on the currently published average of 150 marks is 55 marks, as in the economy it is a percentage of 35% of the average profit. So 60 marks, whether you want it or not, you have to agree, it's on the edge between what's social aid and what's an economic category that's supposed to be a fee for invested work or what's called, profits. That's the edge of existence. What can be done for 60 marks? What can a worker buy for 60 marks? The economy will be forced, in most cases, by your tax laws, to meet that legal minimum, to pay minimum income, means 60 marks, and for 60 marks, the worker can't even buy food. Perhaps you could have kept the prices, if you'd respected market law, but if you'd respected it. Gentlemen, you've made the decision to collect electricity, you've made a decision to collect telephone services, and in fact you've brought the working class into more misery. You're worried about the working class, that's what you can see. You've put in an ex-President of the Union for Ministers, and he's an MP at the moment. You might think, when the government thinks and defends and protects the interests of workers, how these interests will be defended, how these interests will be achieved. There is one other side, gentlemen, and that is when the finance minister from this speaker said a marketingly well-equipped sentence, that the government opposed the European Economic Community when the European Union proposed that the average be 80 marks. Then the government rejected the European Union proposal. We used to pretend, believe it or not, we got scared. It is not likely that this new government has dared to tell the European Union, to tell its employers that they are wrong, so at least in this matter of protecting the standards of the population. However, through the bill of these laws you can see how you do it. The European Union has given you gentlemen an indicative budget, but has made it clear to you that fiscal policy, that you need to adapt to what it has given you with a policy relating to labour and labour in the social sphere. You can make different models, you can interpret people through your addictions. The least of your problems are the opposition in this assembly, especially the Serbian Radical Party. You can solve this problem, you can easily convince us, as you've shown so far, insert the cards, most of it vote. You can throw us all out of this congregation, you can arrest us all. You arrested 11 radicals, you threw out the president of the Serbian Radical Party, you arrested the president of the Serbian Radical Party City Committee because he was putting stickers where it says - DOS is the worst. What do you think, that you can arrest so much as the widespread idea of Serbian radicalism? Do you think the police and your strength are as strong as your mistakes? Come out, gentlemen, explain it to the people. Do not enter this congregation to run across the street, to flee from those who chose you until yesterday. Talk to that people. It's my pleasure as a Serbian radical to listen to you say hello to the people on the streets, swearing to your family, but to a man, I have to say, it's not like it's a big deal to talk from this pay phone. Yet from this pay phone, we Serbian radicals speak under pressure. We don't know which gypsies and informants are sitting in these benches, so they're gonna run for this pay phone to rat out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4880	Mr. Mircic, time is up and I'm asking you to talk about the subject, if you can't finish it, not give a political speech. The word has a folk MP, Mr Jovanovic, then Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4881	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, I have reported in accordance with Article 96(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that I have the right to reply as president of the parliamentary group, provided that the speaker is insulted at the expense of the parliamentary group that I represent. I think I deserve the right to take advantage of such freedom. I would not comment on the remarks made by my predecessor regarding the position of parliament and MPs towards the party he represents. I think the facts have already told themselves enough. I think it is necessary in time to remove that part of the insult relating to the malicious interpretation of the government's and the DOS parliamentary group's efforts to further regulate relations in this House through this bill in a very important segment of our society, therefore working relations. As for minimum earnings, you correctly noticed the big difference between minimum earnings and guaranteed earnings, between 60 and 7 marks. It's a dramatic difference, even with 60 marks, you can't live decently, and you can't live with 150. Our desire is for these relationships to change as quickly as the changed relationships between 7 and 60 marks. I think you need to clarify the role of the union in the process of defining minimum earnings. The minimum profit is not defined by the union, nor is the minimum profit defined by the director. The minimum profit is defined by the standard of our society and the state of business. Therefore, the Republic Statistical Institute will assess the average earnings in the Republic and define in accordance with that average and minimum profit levels. The role of the union, not one, but all that exist in companies, consists primarily in the part in which the employer, therefore the director or board of directors, makes a decision to pay minimum earnings. In fact, it would be very bad if all businesses, using such legislation, would define salaries at a minimum profit level. If I were to say, there are no conditions for us to pay you a profit in line with the company's business, but we have to pay you a minimum profit and vote 60, not 150 marks, and that's that for you. There is an important role for the union and not for one, but for all trade unions that exist within the company. Whether it's the Alliance of Independent Unions, whether it's the Association of Free and Independent Unions, or whether it's the Union of Independence, is not in parliament to think about it. This must be considered by workers who by association, by creating lobby groups, practically protect themselves by trying to affirm their own rights and extend them. So the role of the union is certainly not in the part where you spoke, and so I think it is necessary in time to point out the kind of irregular interpretation of this proposal in order to avoid misinformation of the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4882	Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4883	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 96(2) You see, Mr. President, it's your fault that the DOS parliamentary group created a painful atmosphere in this assembly and you don't seem to me, at least most of you, overjoyed and happy about it. True, two groups of DOS MPs seem happy and show it to the bench events. They're the ones who don't know anything, they don't understand anything, and the other ones who sold their soul to the devil, and for money, they'd welcome here a notice that someone was killed on the street. It's your fault because when you're an opposition or you don't go to elections at all, or when you go to elections, you don't go any further than the National Assembly building's cashier. In the O.R., the government never sees you sharing a story of arguments with you here, and that's why you can't behave when you're in power, and that's why you don't know what the opposition is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4884	Mr. Nikolic, don't tell a story about other parliamentary groups, but according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4885	Now I would ask you to remain silent, as you have silent, Mr. President, while Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, by calling this same member, spoke of a completely different point. Please give me at least a chance to be equal as the deputy president of the parliamentary group with the president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4886	You will be equal if you do not make political speeches, but if you state what you have reported for, which is an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. And say, please, what and how.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4887	Of course, Mr Jovanovic spoke about the views of the parliamentary group he disagreed with and then turned to explain the law. And I don't agree with that right now...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4888	You didn't answer the line. Mr. Jovanovic reported by law for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4889	I said Article 96(2), Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4890	He reported for replica law because of an incorrect interpretation of the insults given to the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4891	I've told you - I'm referring to Article 96(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4892	And then thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4893	And then I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4894	And then you can't just talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4895	Well, how could Mr. Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4896	Because he had the right to a replica, not -- according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4897	I have the right to a replica, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4898	You have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4899	I went out and said I was reporting under Article 96. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4900	You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4901	Mr. President, can you see you're proving my claims yourself?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4902	Do you even know what you've come up with?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4903	Well, you know, Mr. President, you're now exorcising your hair in the egg, and now you're telling us that what we heard yesterday, what the stenographer recorded, that it's not true, but that you should be authorizing. Well, what kind of man are you, Mr. President? Yesterday morning at 10.00 a.m. from all over Serbia, people call me. You cursed your mother to the MPs of DOS. It was on television...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4904	So they called you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4905	Check with your folks, if anyone's watching, see if you said... You want me to literally say what you said?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4906	You want to go back to what you called in?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4907	Well, then what did they do tonight... And then you mentioned their family. Mr. President, you didn't react yesterday. You didn't react properly. You're not responding properly. You allow things to get out of hand and out of control, and thanks to us and the MPs of the DOS, but you only warn us, just throw us out, just remind us of the Rules of Procedure and just remind us of the subject, Mr. President. Never the MPs of the DOS. Yesterday, an MP here said we shouldn't wear green suits. I should remind you of history, when Serbs were forbidden to wear any color other than black and white, only during the Turkish occupation, Mr. President. That's when only Turks were allowed to wear happy colors. The Serbs wore black and white. I should remind you of what the ambassador was, which all of this came about yesterday, Vojislav Seselj said, reminded him that it was 500 years ago and that it is now returning to Serbia. Should I remind you of that, Mr. President? What have you solved?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4908	No, you should finish. It's already been four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4909	To be the Serbian Radical Foreign Court? We are telling you today that tonight, the president of the SRS Belgrade City Committee was arrested because he glued the stickers "DOS is the worst". Well, how much you've been jumping into the defense of the resistance children who've been lurking on the walls. The whole world has risen. The United Nations has been ambushed to criticize that crazy Vlajko Stojiljkovic for arresting those children...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4910	Mr. Nikolic, I warn you, you keep talking about what you haven't even answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4911	... And you're arresting party SRS activists for putting pretty stickers on the walls. What are you guys talking about? Take the word out, throw it out of the O.R. [[Sagar. Votes: Take away his word.]] Because you're preventing the truth from happening? Is it better in Serbia since you came to power? Are these laws good? Are you defending them properly? Please, Mr. President, respect the MPs the people here have chosen equally. We're not asking for anything more than others. Of course, we'll try to make it happen for the pay phone. Well, when you warn us, you sometimes think you're the president and the others you should also warn about. Well, when you make a decision to accept an MP's proposal to be expelled by another MP, and you know you have no right to do that, think about it, Mr. President. That you only made the decision because we started criticizing your President Kostunica. While we were talking about Djindjic here the worst things you kept quiet and laughed along with the secretary, and now that it's the turn of the main [[SRS ambassadors applaud]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4912	Five and a half minutes, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4913	When it comes to the front line, you're out of the O.R. now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4914	Mr. Nikolic, I really owe you an answer. And you know very well, the saddest thing to me is that people I think are intelligent and smart are knowingly telling the truth. Okay, politics is politics, you have the right to do that. But that's embarrassing. You will appear 15 times today to laminate about the difficult fate of Serbian radicals, in which I, as the speaker of this assembly, also bring them in by breaking the Rules of Procedure in the previous days putting them in an unequal position, as you say, in relation to DOS MPs. And you know very well, because I see that you are following the stenographic notes neatly, that I had the same relationship with DOS MPs, as with the MPs of your parliamentary group. Look at that again more carefully and impartially. Besides, that's what we talked about. I also took the word from my MPs, from my party. (Employer Nikolic - I don't know. You don't know? I'll remind you. Here's one of them sitting here, and they'll confirm it to you. I didn't give a word to Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic when he had no right to do so. And you've come out for a pay phone reporting -- according to the Rules of Procedure, talking about arrests, talking about what kind of policy is being led by the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, talking about it for five and a half minutes, and then you're entitled to three minutes, and then you're going to object that I have an incorrect relationship with the MPs of the SRS. Please focus our attention on what's on the agenda. Propose the President of the Assembly's discharge. Suggest an examination of the government's responsibility. They'll talk about it here, but they're on the agenda today. You have the right to express everything your parliamentary group thinks it should say and to criticise the government's proposals in the strictest possible way. You're right about that, and no one's gonna stop you. But I will continue to prevent all MPs, both on the one hand and on the other, in the way I think it is necessary, when you do not stick to what is the topic of the agenda, and you can put on the agenda everything you want, as is on the agenda and your MP's proposal, Mr. Marjanski's legal proposal. That's what we're gonna talk about here. Please be correct, too. There's no reply to the Rules of Procedure. [[Employer Nikolic, from the place - replica.]] You can only express dissatisfaction. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, you've received an answer, it's my duty. ... (Emissary Nikolic, from the scene - replica, you misread me when you said I was intelligent. There's no such thing as a replica. If the wrong interpretation is that I said you were intelligent, I'm still not going to give you the right to a replica. It's my duty to answer your question, I don't want to do it by the line, you have no right. (Emissary Nikolic, from the scene - replica, please put us in the same treatment, Mr. President, because the MP who spoke of me for five minutes...) You are an MP who pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and I, as president, am obliged to give you an answer. I'm in charge of the Rules of Procedure. You can agree with that, disagree and demand a statement from the congregation. I explained why I didn't think there was an injury to Article 96. You were talking for five and a half minutes, and now it's 8.48 minutes, so I've been talking for three minutes. If you are not satisfied with my answer, please make a statement. The congregation will declare that. (In the meantime, MP Dragan Cholic is looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? There won't be much left of you if you keep this up. Well, you should hear it. I'm not ashamed of it. [[Comment by Ambassador Nikolic is not heard.]] You're blocking the work of the Assembly. If that's your goal - destruction, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4915	Mr. President, the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is contained in Article 100. Mr. President, as the People's MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask you to allow me to explain my motives - which consists of a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then, eventually, if I am as a People's MP misread it, then you state your view of the situation and do as you wish. I'm just asking you to let me explain, no distractions and no interruptions. You know, I'm a very confusing man, and it bothers me when someone throws me away and disturbs me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4916	Just to be clear, if it concerns breaking the Rules of Procedure at today's session, not what happened five days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4917	Mr. President, I've been thinking for a long time, and I was in a dilemma whether to take my word for it. I didn't want to because I wanted to make my contribution to the successful work of the Serbian Parliament, but here is the glass that has taken its measure, and the gift of the measure, so here I am provoked to react now to what is happening, and to that I have the right as a national MP. Do you allow me to explain that? I've listed Article 100. I said - about the session of the National Assembly taking care of the president of the National Assembly, so I would like to explain how and how the president is getting older. Do I have the right to do that? Mr. President, your behavior is disputable and problematic, you often don't see, you often don't hear, which means, the symptoms of deafness and blindness, because when a man doesn't hear, he associates me with deafness, and when he doesn't see, he seems blind. You're in the pantomime business. We were all witnesses when for a minute, a minute and a half, and that's eternity, you followed the MP of the SRS and fixed your eyes until the moment he sat down. It's a pantomime for me. You don't often get to react, your concentration is problematic. You did not react when the DOS MP insulted all SRS MPs, saying there are no Serbs among us. Here, I call upon my son Dushan to light a candidium in front of the icon of St John's, our baptismal glory, and we Serbs will reap many more candidates on the altar of the Orthodox Church. You reacted wrongly to the skillful provocation, pre-planned by MP Mecca Omerovic. On the proposal of the MPs, which is inadmissible to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you vote shamefully, that it cannot be more shameful, and that you are making a decision on the distance of Dr Vojislav Seselj, the most severe political opponent and the man who has exposed you to the citizens of Serbia. Often MPs speak, and you do not turn on microphones, so remember and turn on only when we from the MPs' benches react and warn you about it. Dr. Vojislav Seselj spoke of your library, which contains works of bettrist, but also a large number of works of classical literature, where the honorary place takes hold of the plier, vine, etc. Perhaps those books are the cause of your poor concentration and bad conduct of the National Assembly session. By arresting Serbian sons, Serbian radicals, because these are your strongest arguments, you will not escape the wrath of Serbian citizens because of the cruel harrassors you have imposed on them. Your resignation would be a moral act. Explain to the citizens why this security in the Serbian Parliament, by 10 security workers, special forces, to a Serbian son, a Serbian radical.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4918	He has the word National MP Aleksandar Vukic (by the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia often uses the presidency for answers, i.e. for a replica of the SRS MPs. This wasn't the first time, it was article 90. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if you ask me about that member. I'd like to point something out to you in a few sentences, and yes, we seem to be making an effort to do things differently in this National Assembly in the future. So I'm going to tell you a few things that are totally amazing, that the papers don't write about. Today, on the headlines, the central pages of some newspapers, say - Dr Vojislav Seselj has been disfellowshipped because of religious hatred. Come out, and tell me what that word is, in no word has a single word of faith or a nation offended yesterday, in any word, but I'm going to say something else. Everyone else did it, you didn't react, Mr. President, even to me, when I pointed out that, you warned you about what I was telling you. And I would ask you to insist, as I now insist, that the MP of DOS, Meho Omerovic, come out and tell the National Assembly what Dr Vojislav Seselj said. What he said to him, that never, I guarantee you, all MPs who don't know, never speak to anyone, anywhere, outside the congregation building, never to anyone, nor to anyone, nor to anyone. Such words, such sentences, such terrifying insults, that you can't dream of someone being able to pronounce, and with such threats, which are absolutely incredible. So I would ask you, I don't mind, Mr. President, you can also curse your mother, not on a religious and national basis, we won't ask for your distance because of it, nor can we, but you can do it, and you can do it to all MPs, not just DOS MPs, and we won't say that it was on a religious basis, we won't ask the media to arrest you for it or to carry out the worst possible hack and harango on you, but what I ask of you as people, not as our political opponents, but as people, to hear, if you don't know, and I claim that you don't know, and you can see it on television video, what is said and what is said to the president of the SRS. I guarantee you that those words are never and never heard from anyone in any place, they're so scary, days I can say them at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4920	Just to discuss this issue one more time, the same introductory note as Mr. Nikolic's. You know you're not telling the truth, and that's the saddest thing about it, you know that the Rules of Procedure say that you objected to me misusing this place, not going out for a line in front of a pay phone. I remind you once again, and I've already done this on many occasions, that in Article 95. (you have reached out to the Rules of Procedure) it says that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. Absolutely, if you're the argument about what Mr. Seselj was saying yesterday, you made as an argument in favour of the claim that I violated Article 90. Rules of Procedure, I have the right to answer that. Of course, I won't, everyone's heard and seen it, but don't claim what's true and what you know is false. I don't abuse this pay phone, I answer your remarks about breaking the Rules of Procedure and nothing more. When I need to replicate to you, and I will rarely have that need for you, I will go out for this pay phone. Who? [[Mircic is looking for a replica.]] (Mircic, from the post: Jovanovic. ) So it was a replica, and the replica on the replica is where it stands? There's no replica on the line, what's wrong with you. It was a replica, Mr. Mircic, there's no replica on the replica. No, I'm not giving you my word. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4921	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing the law on complementarity of the Labour Relations Act for so long that we have had the opportunity to hear from the legislators of this law, experts from the DOS government, even from DOS MPs, who I could share in three groups -- MPs belonging to some association of independent unions, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the rest of the DOS. As for the Association of Independent Unions, I don't know if she was on the December 1994 election list and who are these people representing? Do they represent DOS or the Association of Independent Unions? I also don't understand what Mr. Minister was looking for in this government, as a unionist, because so far he's been rebelling against the state unions, which the state used, and he's been saying that they don't work in the interests of workers and the early class. Now, the gentleman, the president of a union so far, the minister, and he's got me on the next one -- he's riding a cop. That's right. The Association of Independent Trade Unions is a DOS cartoon, which is designed to calm social unrest in case the DOS comes to power, and in case it loses power, and as an opposition, stirs up social unrest. That was your union plan, Mr. Minister. I think you're going very badly, especially in Braničsky County, where I am, where in certain organizations you had to run from workers, when you led your candidates for MPs, to represent your unions. As far as DSS MPs are concerned, I don't know if the DSS was on the list, it was DOS. It must be clear to you that you are members of the DOS. So don't go out for this pay phone and say, "We're with the DSS." We have the right to the SRS. And you from the DSS are DOS MPs, and as such...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4922	I'm asking you to move on to what you've reported after 2.5 minutes, and that's the law and start discussing the bill. If not, I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4923	Each exposure has an introduction, a development and a conclusion. I'm finishing my introduction. Maybe it's a little longer, so I'm talking about what's been heard these days. As for the DSS MPs, it seems to me that a ship called DOS is beginning to sink slowly. On that point, I'll remind you of a folk proverb, the first to flee from a sinking ship. To get back on the subject, so I wouldn't be in a situation to be exclusive, to the bill made up by Mr. Minister, an expert. Most of all, I would refer to Article 15, which is, in section 6, as to the measure when determining whether or not the employer could have paid the profits. I will read that position, meaning "if the inspector in the control procedure finds that the employer has not paid the earnings, i.e. minimum earnings, as well as if he has paid the profits against the provisions of Article 64(2) of this Act, and has made the funds for payment in the account, he will prohibit the exercise of the employer's activity." That attitude was tried by the head of the DOS parliamentary group to justify, meaning that the labour inspector would determine whether or not he had an employer of funds on the jury account. I believe that work inspectors are educated people. I think they have some kind of condition for them to become, to finish some school. Not as individual ministers. Now I don't know if they have to know the financial business of a company. With which material assets the company has, with which the turnover of the assets is available, with which the turnover coefficient is available and how it will know all that, so that it can determine whether the employer was in a situation or not. So this attitude and this member of the law leaves the company at the mercy of market inspection or labour inspection, how it will enforce this law. Literally to mercy and mercy. As far as Mr. Express is concerned, this is evident from the stance of the 5th of this law, says - the notice of Article 4 of this article is delivered to the employer's seat inspector. In that part of me, this member and this attitude are in no way clear. First, who is it delivered to? And it must be clear to Mr. Secretary that the application is delivered to the labour inspector. Not to the inspector. He'd have to know, since this inspection is in his jurisdiction, that it exists in every district headquarters and that it's called the department of the ministry of that and that, the inspection of the work, that and that. So, by territoriality. According to how this law is formulated, so the application will be delivered to one of the only inspectors, although there are 10, so that one will do the job. Mr. Minister, you had to know that, that's your department, which is under your direct management. Labour inspections are with the authorities, the state authorities. Next, in point 4. - the organisation responsible for payment services is obliged to notify, no later than the end of the current month, the competent minister of work on employers who have not made the payment of earnings, i.e. minimum earnings for the previous month. What are the organizations responsible for payment? I think there's only one in Yugoslavia, and if it connects to this point 5, this law is essentially no good, and it's very difficult and broadly possible to interpret it. No wonder this is the law Mr. Minister made because he's an expert who enrolled in college when I was born.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4924	The People's Messenger Emilija Krstic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4925	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, taking part in the principle debate on this proposal, on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act, I want with these speakers and citizens of Serbia, i.e. the employees and others who will be present in the future, what this bill carries with it, and which will, of course, protect all of them, both in terms of the very definition of what is coming to them as a profit and on all the rights they have in this regard. Namely, the proposal clearly defines gross earnings, which has caused major controversy and criticism by the opposition's MPs. I have to say unargumented, I'd say a little hasty. The concept of gross earnings as well as this bill will only apply from 1.6. In 2001, it implies expanding the base of taxation and the definition of profit and what everything is meant for profit. In that sense, it should be said to Serbian citizens and employees that gross earnings is the most reliable way that the moment they get their pension right, the basis for calculating pensions will be greater. Everything that hasn't gone into the profits so far, and the workers have received, is thought of a regress, a warm meal and all other receipts, which have not been taxed so far, it will enter into the base of taxation by this system of gross earnings and thus provide a larger basis for the calculation of pensions. Furthermore, the severances, which were also criticised by opposition MPs for this speaker, and the number of earnings to be paid during the severance, are reduced this time according to this proposal. In fact, they are being reduced because it is now the basis for the payment of gross earnings, which is nominally higher and which will increase the amount of the severance, regardless of what will be reduced. All these years ago, we had a specific situation, i.e. a phenomenon in the private and social sectors, where the mass of employees was either unregistered, or had treatment of employees on black, or was reported, and they were paid the basis for their pension on guaranteed income. This draft law clearly defined that the employer would be prohibited from working, i.e. carrying out the work, unless he had concluded a contract with an employee and had not reported it, or at least two employees had not reported it. So in the private sector this will lead to improved employee treatment. Yeah, I'm saying it's been so far. As far as the social sector is concerned, employers will be obliged to pay minimum earnings. If they don't pay it, they will, of course, bear it as a member of the 140th Consequence because of it. The minimum profit defined by this proposal of 35% of the average in the Republic of Serbia, which at this point, as we have heard these days, is about 1,800 dinars, 1.6. In 2001, I expect it to be, or we all expect it to be bigger. If October's average salary in Serbia was 80 marks, and today it is 130 marks, it means that the minimum earnings and June of the month, when salaries are paid, or earnings for gross earnings, will be higher. All of this points to the proposal's intention to protect employees and their rights in every way possible and to ensure both the present and the future in terms of achieving their right to pension. I also want to deny the claims that all these legal projects that we have brought to this House will block any economic activity. All of these previous system laws, including this one, are the basis for what Serbia and all Serbian citizens are meeting, which are investments, the launch of business activities, loans. For all this, as a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia in this House, I think we should support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4926	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, followed by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4927	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I'd like to ask the president to regulate this climate a little bit, really, a lot of smoke on this side. It's all a setup, on some side. I think in the interest of all MPs on the left, I have said and there is no need to comment further. Let me take a brief look at the bill that has been under consideration for a longer period of time and for a long time. Our people say, where there is smoke, there will be fire. I think there are other things we should think more seriously about and talk about. That's why I would immediately tell Mr. President and ask him to allow me, after this discussion, a few more minutes to really advocate an urgent consideration and request to the government, which I will present at the end of my presentation. Firstly, I must say that the very reason is that the fiscal system in the Republic of Serbia is being laid on new grounds, starting with the fiscal system set out in European legislation. The newspapers, which are introduced in the areas of tax and contribution and profit, require appropriate amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act in the part which regulates the system of earnings, fees and other remuneration of employees. If we change only 10 members compared to 150, how many the current Labour Relations Act had, I can really say that the existing system laws, which regulated this area, were good and that this was only one adjustment of the legislation, as well as what we had in the previous period, given that most of the legal regulations and basics were good. Only at this point in time, the people of the newspaper are no longer aware of how much and what they will pay for, which will be the consequence and application of these legal regulations. I can say that I really cannot understand that there is no unity in proposing tax laws and laws that will later regulate procedures based on social and pension and disability insurance. That's the problem I pointed out last time. If we have a pay base, we don't have a rate. If we have a rate, we don't have a basis for payment. Last time we made tax laws, we determined the rates, and there's no basis anywhere. Leaving the basis for the tax administrations and the government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbian citizens do not know what awaits them in terms of payments, which is the result of these days, where nowhere in the legal regulations can income administrations, based on price increases, increase the amount of tax, in particular the property tax. It is only from 1 June that new advances, i.e. new amounts of property tax, will be established. There's something similar about this law. The basis for the calculation and payment of contributions for health and pension insurance has been established, and the rates are nowhere to be found. It's just that the rates are going to be slightly less due to the increase in the gross base. There's nowhere to be found, in any bill of law, to say how many feet they are. I would like to remind you that this assembly has already laid down 14% of gross earnings taxes and 3.5% of the fees, i.e. gross compensation for municipal budgets, which is already 17.5%. How much is it going to be for retirement and disability insurance? In particular, given the fact that the basics proposed by the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Act are not the basics. These basics will be consistent in June with the growth of net earnings in February - April, which means that the basics we are now adopting and the proposals of these laws are not relevant, for determining the gross earnings to be applied from 1 June. Also, what I'm saying is that through part of these regulations, we're pulling the sociale out of the company, and we're returning politics to businesses. We've been doing this since October 5th. What you said the other day you said hello here, about the flag, what's different than politics. I don't think politics in companies has done anyone any good. Also, these unions of yours are more concerned about returning self-management to businesses and more about hitting employers than they are about protecting the rights of the workers you have denied and reduced here. I must say, in addition to the destruction of the factory, allow me, Mr. President, another factory under the clear sky in the Colubary County is ruined. In the last two years, I don't know what kind of natural disaster the Colubary County has hit, and indeed this government of ours is not in this country. There is no Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management anywhere. The Kolubar district was hit by extremely large and catastrophic floods, snow over 20-25 cm, which was unremembered in the mountain-mounted area, great damage, catastrophic damage. She was the Committee on Agriculture of the Assembly, Mr. Zivko Selaković and, I think I noticed Mr. Micovic, and I was in the field yesterday and the day before yesterday, and they visited only part of the municipalities. So Lig municipality, Lykovac and, I think, according to Obrenovac. There are six municipalities of Kolubar County still left, the municipality according to Podlinjska della in the Mačvanska County. Indeed, I can say that the people of the Colubar region no longer have clean water, or drinking water, to do as anyone knows and can. (President: Mr. Mutsic, I've been a little tolerated after all. I'm done. I would therefore suggest that the Government take immediate measures, given that agricultural producers must once again sow what they have already sown, that the wheat is well-wrought and that the fruit is destroyed. I would suggest that we immediately appeal to the government to come out specifically of the program of emergency measures to resuscitate this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4928	The word comes from MP Dragan Tomoc, and after that, MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4929	I have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4930	Here, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4931	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have answered the line, not to criticise, not to rephrase my fellow MP, but I have felt the need to say, but unfortunately, we cannot tell our Rules of Procedure something that happens on the ground, in the fields of our farmers at a time when we are sitting here in Parliament, and, well, this is how we must manage to inform the public. The Agriculture Committee had a meeting yesterday during our Parliament's meeting and we unanimously decided that we should still go out in the field and see what was going on there. The Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, me as Vice-President, Zoran Nikolic as a member and Mr Rafaelovic as a farmer, MP and member of the Committee on Agriculture, went out and visited the municipality of Ljig, part of the Lajkovic Atatar, Mionic and then stopped at Obrenovac municipality, where we visited these endangered areas. Really, it's a disaster. When I say disaster, it's made by pouring out, to say streams. It's small rivers, Lig, part of the Colubara and some of the tributaries there, or streams. So I want to say that no one after that when we came back, I mean specifically Mr. Minister Dragan Veselinov, has asked us what is happening in our fields throughout Serbia. At this point, I believe that Mr. Veselinov is much more important to lead politics with Mr. Canka, some autonomy, the split of Vojvodina, etc., and that he doesn't care what happens in the fields across Serbia. So I want to underline, as my predecessor said, that still the government should have this in mind, to put it on the agenda. We have requested that representatives of these municipalities deliver to us the surface and possible assessment of that damage. And to support that, you may recall, I recently said through my discussion that agriculture is a factory under the clear sky. So, it happened, these peasants, by punishing God, what they were done, were affected that no other obligations, taxes, taxes were necessary. Now I come to what I stood for, that still through the tax system of contributions, and secondly, it's about the peasant. I want to remind the government once again that he has this in mind and that the more urgent he comes out with one motion on recovery, help those parts that have been affected by the flood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4932	The word has a folk MP Dragan Tomic, followed by Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4933	Dear gentlemen, the MPs, this law on amendments and amendments to the Labour Law should have been held in parallel before the law that will only come after Gjurdjevdan, which is the law on ownership transformation. Definitely, there is one of the most significant links between these two laws here, because one part of the rights of the workers that have been resolved in this bill will be greatly compromised. She will be threatened because the government of the Republic of Serbia has no serious social programmes in this area, not even in public with it, except for the political messages sent from this or from another pay phone. I have to tell you what's really going on. Here is one of the rights that has been established as a liquid of the previous time, I think it would be good to stay, because we've been through this era of severe sanctions, poverty of the state and economy. And in the previous period, to remind, even 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 and 1996, the Labour Relations Act was foreseen to pay 36 employees for whose work the need for the employer ended and 24 earnings later. Here the basic motive was for some of these employees to achieve some other form of requalification, i.e. to start doing other jobs. Many people who have used their legal right, today operate as small businesses, hired both family and family, or left their household members to do extremely important work in the field of services, production, small businesses, etc. This legal solution significantly reduces those rights. We can't exactly call ourselves here for gross earnings in some areas, because it really doesn't have its weight. The real essence of gross earnings has not yet been seen, because at the moment it comes to life, very little time will remain for talks between employers, trade unions and the government on new collective agreements, as they will be regulated. Also, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce has not been advertised at all, nor has it had any views, except for individual boards, which have warned to these regulations of serious shortcomings and what will happen to employees. What is important is to say that the Law stipulates that an employer can break the employment relationship, the moment the need for his work ceases, provided that he pays his severance payment. We have a debate next month on the property transformation law, which is announced at the big door. During the ownership transformation, and there are data from the press and statements by officials of the government, a large number of employees will be jobless. Of course, all of this would make a lot of sense if there was a serious social programme that would be resolved, i.e. enable people who remain unemployed to requalified or qualified, but should be taken into account by the Republic Labour Market Office. You can't see for now what the scope will be, in which areas and whether this country in these conditions has the power to overpower these 300 or 400,000 employees, who will be jobless, suddenly overqualified or qualified. In particular, this is a problem in certain areas, such as construction, meditation complex, textile industry. I must say that the skin unions and the textile industry have warned that there are mostly women employed in the age of 45 to 55, that the largest number has already crossed half of its working experience and one good part is under a certain degree of disability. Given the quality of this workforce, their need to remain only in the collectives where they work, where they contribute, no one will seek this workforce as a new workforce in some other branches or areas, where it is once again referred to as retraining. Those amendments, which have been offered by MPs from all parliamentary groups, I think they make a lot of sense and should be reconsidered, because, definitely, many employees now have the character of a social category that needs to be taken care of at this point. I think there's one cynical explanation in the draft labour law. The category of warm meal, regression, transport and field supplement has been characterised as an area of gray economy. I have to say, this really doesn't make sense, because that area, not that it didn't have the character of the gray economy, but it had a double character. First, she had character, according to the Constitution, rights belonging to employees, giving the employer an obligation to respect those rights. The other thing, which is the disturbed relationship in society, and it comes from sanctions, the unemployment of the economy and everything that happened to us in the previous period, has kept one social mile because these funds were enough for some mere survival. Of course, under those conditions and those prices in the area of life supplies that were in effect until September, and apparently that at these prices is not enough anymore, and that gross profit will not have a significant impact in areas where average earnings were at the lowest salary of 470 dinars, where the lowest labour price was paid. Because we see that in these legal solutions the lowest price will be worth 3,033 dinars, regardless of whether a single dinar will be paid net, with the obligation to pay that full amount by the 30th month, I think that a large number of businesses will be in serious trouble when it comes to treating the relationship between the employer, the state, the budget and the employee. We must realize that at this point, a large number of Serbian businesses are not working. I'm not going to characterize it with any political reasons. I just want to talk about social reasons. So, neither do I intend to take any political points here, nor do I need to, but I have to realize that the situation in the economy is quite difficult. Of course, again to some MPs, what we're saying isn't interesting, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Gentlemen, this is a very important topic. Bogdanovic, I suggest you go out and replicate here. This is very important, and I'm saying this for the reason that everyone takes this discussion very seriously, because it would not be good if the parameters that are disturbed by the downturn of production in the economy, because of the inability for the economy to work well, because of the announcement of ownership transformation, and at least at this point clearly defined by the walking of a number of people around Serbia, who offer certain companies for sale and means, a series of unargued stories that stand, and I don't think they need anyone at this point. We need to talk about the rights of workers, the social map of workers and how we will all survive together next year. That's what this story of ours is all about. Finally, to say a few more sentences, I would ask the Minister for Labour and Combat Affairs not to call much on the Union, because my predecessors from the Socialist Party have said that what we have received these days, and we have received letters from the Syndicates asking Mr. Dragan Milovanovic not to represent them anymore, nor their rights, they will exercise their rights as prescribed by the law. So, in the end, let's just say two sentences, let's do a few parameters of what the government is going to do in this case, whether it's going to come up with a social programme, whether this is a good category of the lowest profit that's being talked about, and don't talk about a warm meal, a regression and compensation for a field supplement as a gray economy, I don't think that makes any sense because of employees in Serbia's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4934	The word has been issued by MP Ljubomir Kragovic and he is the last registered candidate for discussion on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4935	Dear colleagues, the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act opens a debate on a single set of labour legislation, following the adoption of tax laws that fill the budget, which is unrealistic and inflatable. This law is restrictive for two reasons. One, because it's restrictive to employers and the other to workers. It is restrictive to employers because they are obliged, regardless of whether they pay their profits, pay their taxes, and contribute, means that they settle all obligations towards the state. According to workers, it is restrictive in particular in Article 1 which regulates severance, where the restrictiveity refers to the reduction of the amount from double to five times from once six to twelve times the amount of severance for these workers for whom the labour obligation ceases or becomes a technological surplus. The minimum earnings defined by this law create a dilemma, and Article 6 states that the minimum earnings from this article are 35% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic, while the reason is that this minimum earnings is 40% of the average earnings in the Republic. Not only is the difference in the percentages of 35% and 40%, but the difference from the average profit in the economy and the average earnings in the Republic, because the average income in the Republic includes that extra-economic activity, and we know that there is an average profit higher than in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. It is said that the introduction of gross wages and the taxation of a warm meal, the regress, the fees for a field supplement and the transport fees will eliminate the grey economy, and I argue that this tax introduces an even bigger grey economy, because there will be an even greater number of workers on the street, and it will be forced to do just that gray economy to survive this regime, which has no sense of what is happening in Serbia and which only imposes and some clear legislation wants to introduce some rules of the game, as if Serbia is at the level of the European Union countries, and not as a country that was 10 years under sanctions, which was bombed two years ago and in which it is very difficult to live. This law does not specify anywhere what happens to a population of workers living in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, who have lost their jobs, without their factories, without their businesses. What fate these workers will have and who will take care of them for the time being is an unknown fact, and the government is in no way declaring itself. What does the worker want? The worker is not asking for charity, but is asking that you, the six billion dollars you promised in the election campaign, invest in investments, in the economy, industry and therefore the worker will be able to live better and feed himself, both himself and his family. The penalty policy of this law, in fact, sanctions for the non-compliance of this law are very rigorous and because it provides for the closure of companies that do not respect this law for 30 to 90 days, as well as for the fact that the range of fines is 1 to 100, so that for the same act, for the same crime, someone will be punished with one dinar, and someone with 100 dinars, normally increased many times. However, the reason why workers' rights have been reduced by this law, which is precisely the upcoming law on ownership transformation, which you need to introduce so-called. strategic partners, so that they would have a lower obligation to those workers who were in those companies. It will go on to come, as companies will not be able to pay these taxes and taxes, as well as obligations due to a known situation, until the sale of enterprises in Serbia, but this law confers on the foreign partner or so on. a strategic partner, as you say, and not a working class that is responsible for the existence of that firm that has worked for many years and has spent its entire life investing in the development of this company and this company. So there's none of those six billion dollars. You put that in your pockets, and now you expect...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4936	Please stick to the subject of the agenda, the subject is the bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Law, not the law on privatisation, not donations, but amendments and additions to the Labour Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4937	That's exactly what I'm talking about. Listen to me a little bit better, and you're about to hear that I've been constantly talking about the subject of the agenda, the position of workers and the Labour Relations Act, which is on the agenda. As far as the restrictions of this law are concerned, it is one feature of the ruling DOS coalition, because it is restrictive not only to workers, specifically in this law, not only to citizens with these duties and taxes, but also to anyone else who does not think like him. This restrictiveity refers to the fact that a hack against the SRS is currently being led, that Serbian radicals are arrested in no fair way because the beautiful sticker "DOS is the worst", because the president of the SRS parliamentary group is far away, because of some words spoken by other MPs, i.e. Members of the DOS. It is a shame for this parliament, and I warn that such situations are no longer happening and that none of the MPs can declare it because it does not exist, because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4938	For the second time, I remind you to stick to the agenda theme and I give you a warning on the basis of Article 101 and Article 98, paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4939	Thanks for the heads-up, but I'm the one who figured it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4940	Meanwhile, they applied for a discussion by MP Aleksandar Vukic and Srdja Popovic. I give the word to the People's MP, Alexander Wolfich.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4941	Of course, I answered for the discussion, that's understandable because I've never been involved in it before. By reading the stenographic notes, I concluded that those who spoke on behalf of the draft labour law generally held political burdens, not trying to get into the essence of changes and additions, not trying to explain to the citizens of Serbia why some of the key members were changing, changing to worse, worse, and it seems to me that this is something that we need to talk about here today, as we tried to talk yesterday, until the president of the National Assembly prevented us from doing so. It is interesting, when it comes to severance, that those who have spoken about greater social security of citizens, about ensuring the social existence of every man in our country, that they will do so in an incomparably better and better quality way than they have recently been, to cut profits and pay off from six to 12 to two to five months, which is indeed a threat to elementary labour rights. What's this all about? Therefore, just now, the chairman of the National Assembly did not understand when some of our MPs spoke of some other system laws that are connected...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4942	Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie, I'm asking the MPs to be a little quieter, because I don't hear what the messenger is saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4943	So neither the chairman nor some others understood why some other close, related system laws related to the Labour Relations Act were also spoken of, because such a severance was provided precisely because of the fact that it was preparing for a different privatisation from what was announced. This different privatisation would take a large number of people to run out of bread, no jobs, but it shouldn't have taken an employer to burden himself and should be reduced to spending as much as possible, and what will happen to workers, those who get fired, who have to leave their jobs, whether in two or five months they will be able to find another job, to perform any kind of restructuring or something like that - it is left to the workers, to solve their problems themselves. I don't think it's democratic or reformal, and it doesn't look like what you said and explained to the people. Furthermore, I noticed several illogicalities in the very text of the proposal. You can check a good difference in the proposed text of the law and the very explanation of the text of the law. It is said in the text of the law in Article 6(2) that the minimum profit is 35% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic, and it is said in the explanation that the minimum earnings are 40%. (Minister, from the scene: - mistake. Here, now the minister says it's a mistake. But it's still an incredible mistake and something that shouldn't happen to someone who works in the government. Such suggestions or explanations should not be made before the MPs in this congregation. Let me get to the point and get to the point. Can you live with 35%? You'll say, there used to be seven marks, and today it's 60 marks. But prices are not doubled, not tripled, cost of life, consumer basket, but at least doubled in the meantime. At least tripled. Today, just to make 1,850 dinars, how much is minimum profit, or once guaranteed profit, however you like, you can't buy daily bread, milk and liter of yogurt. You just can't do that. And let's just let someone else in the people afford it. That's the point. So you can't talk about the nominal amount of money, you can talk about real money. You can't say - we've increased the salary from 80 to 90 marks to 130 marks. It is nominal. There is in our right and economy the principle of so-called monetary nominalism, but it has to be observed whether the salaries actually jumped, if they've really jumped the profits. No, on the contrary. They are actually significantly lower than they were because costs are incomparably higher and it seems to me that all citizens in the best possible way feel in their own skin. Secondly, I don't know how everything that's now being calculated in gross incomes is going to be able to secure the state. It seems to me that also what taxes and contributions must be paid at all do not have to be paid, but taxes and contributions must be paid, and I understand as the need for the budget to be filled, but I would like to see much more opportunities given to workers, those who will be fired, especially in their rights of severance, and that the employer with much more things to be committed. In the end, I just hope you don't mind me saying that it's totally amazing, which we found out this morning, what happened, so I'd like to appeal to you not to really do it, to look at what's going on. President of the GO SRS of Belgrade has been arrested for sticking the sticker "DOS is the worst".
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4944	Please, Mr. Wolfie, you've already informed us about this twice, and that's not the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4945	My people, what we've burned to and what's happening in this country. These things have never happened in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4946	He has the word as president of the Cedomir Jovanovic parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4947	Dear Presidency, Mrs Micic, I ask you to allow me, in accordance with Article 96(2), to use the right to reply, to try to minimise the negative consequences of the insults brought forth in the performance of my predecessor, which is addressed to the DOS parliamentary group. (Some MPs of the Radical Party detest. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4948	Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4949	I'll explain to you what the insult is. The DOS parliamentary group has been trying to build a correct relationship with all opposition parties in this assembly since the first day of its appearance in this parliament. We tried to do it with the SRS. All except the representatives of the SRS agreed to relations defined by the DOS, but with the will of the citizens in the elections, held on 23 December. There has been an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, to open up the possibility for representatives of the SRS to have a vice president in this assembly. That's the possibility you didn't agree to. There has been a change in the Rules of Procedure to open space for representatives of the SRS in the assembly working bodies, in line with the percentage won in the 23 December elections. All the time, DOS MPs here suffer most of the unsuitable attitudes that the representatives of the SRS make to DOS representatives. Now I will tell you what you specifically injured DOS MPs - not a single DOS MP, just because of his status, political, is an exception to the law, and, if we are not exempt from the law, do not expect us to have an understanding for the representatives of the SRS, in situations where they violate the laws or Rules of Procedure on the work of this Parliament. You hurt us because you expect us to act the way the MP majority acted in the last term. We are not the ones who will tolerate any violation of the law, nor the chairman of the SRS City Committee. To everything we've done so far, we've tried to introduce ourselves to a significantly different person than our predecessors, and so it's an insult to us when you say that everything we've done is not enough and that you expect us to be exactly what the SPS representatives were. Mr. Seselj has broken the Rules of Procedure, and the Assembly has made it clear, with our regret, but it is binding for him, as it is for me, or for any of the 250 MPs of this assembly. When the chairman of the City Committee of the Democratic Party is as the president of the City Committee of the SRS, do not expect us to be different than we are right now. So, the law will apply to anyone, it's the obligation of the D.A., the prosecution, and so it will be in the future. Stop insulting us the way it was before, stop looking at us as SPS and MPs who provided a legal basis for you to do what you did for the past 10 years. [[Tomislav Nikolic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4950	Can't replica on replica You can't, because the replica was challenged on behalf of the SRS by MP Alexander Vukic, and there is no replica on the line. [[Tomislav Nikolic from the post: I am looking for a replica on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group.]] You have no right to a replica, because a member of your party has caused a replica. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I am not looking for a replica regarding Aleksandra Vukic, I have the right to replicate the above-mentioned exposure, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4951	I think that at least the secretary of the National Assembly should warn you that I have the right to reply to Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's presentation. The fact that he had a replica of the presentation of Alexander Vukic prevents Alexander Vukic from having a replica, but since he mentioned the uninterrupted parliamentary group of the SRS, the SRS, the president of the SRS parliamentary group, as I am the deputy president, and the president of the session is not present at your will, I replace him and I have the right under Article 96(2) on the line. Are you giving me the right to a replica? So I don't ask you, what is the matter with you Jaffar? I ask him who runs the meeting of the congregation, and you don't get the speaker behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4952	I'm giving you the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4953	Thank you very much. You've given me nothing. You've only respected the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. A series of lies have been told about the establishment of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure were not changed for any concession to be made by the SRS. The election results say we have the right to the chairman of the board, two deputy board presidents in the National Assembly, and nothing depends on the will of most DOS. It can only depend on you not to give us, as you didn't, because you didn't want us to get into full discussions on all the committees, so let's agree on which committee the Radicals have a president, in which they have a vice president, but you asked for key committees to be established as soon as possible, that you have the presidency of the board, and later we'll have the other committees. We didn't want to agree to such partial solutions. Why did you extend the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly? According to the old number, we belonged to one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly. It is not because of us that we have expanded the number of vice-presidents of the National Assembly, but you need that number of vice-presidents, why some college of the National Assembly, which you have invented, is constantly replacing the Assembly, when the Assembly is to issue very important statements on very important issues, and then the president and vice-president of the Assembly, with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, of course, without representatives of the SRS parliamentary group, agree to issue a little brief statement, to condemn KFOR, UNMIK, DOS, to write to the United Nations, and tomorrow the media are talking about how the National Assembly wrote to the United Nations. She didn't write because it wasn't here for the debate and because it wasn't the decision of the National Assembly. Mr Jovanovic, you act the same way as the SPS when you have a majority in this National Assembly, in the same way you interpret the Rules of Procedure, in the same way you take away the word, you throw out MPs from the National Assembly. There's no difference, Mr. Jovanovic. All your efforts for democracy were valid until you created the necessary congregation majority. Now you're bothered by opposition MPs, you're bothered by our long debates, you're bothered by our stories that sometimes aren't about the subject, they don't bother your stories that aren't about the subject. Except for Minister Djelic, but he went over it twice, and no minister here came out to talk about the laws, everyone gave political speeches. That's what the MPs could have put up with. When, at the pay phone, Mr. Jovanovic, you always take the opportunity to start talking about the law, and then you move it to the MPs of the SRS, and everything goes unpunished. And don't ask that you, who belong to the Democratic Party, say that crime is when a pretty sticker around the city of Belgrade, which says "DOS is the worst". So then, where she built today's power of political action until now -- on which, on stickers, on graphs, on demonstrations, on the burning of the Assembly building. We can't do that. We can write a little sticker like this. It may sting your eyes, but don't arrest people for it, because it's not democratic, arrest a man, the president of the City Committee, until yesterday, the MPs of the National Assembly, because he's carrying in his hand a sticker that says "DOS is the worst". So please, let it go -- it's not true, and when it comes out, the police have taken away 22 "DOS is the worst" stickers. You threw out an SRS MP, Vojislav Seselj, for a word you say is ugly. The first time I heard her at the myths of your political group. You guys were yelling, "They can suck on you, Zoran," right? On the cover of "Serb Words" were painted three officials of the City Assembly and it said "You can suck on them, Zoran". I didn't even know what that term meant until you showed up in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4954	There's a word from MP Milka Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4955	Because of the service, my name is Milka Marinkovic, a female MP, whatever it is called, in this assembly I am a woman and an MP, in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, DOS, the Democratic Party, whatever you want. I ask that the Assembly declare by voting that the Vice-President of the Assembly has violated Article 101(6). The Rules of Procedure, which did not give a warning to the People's Messenger, who was offended by who knows which way, and not only him from the MPs of the SRS, about us women, when he said we were Jaftars. It may be that we have also thrown and violated the Rules of Procedure, the MP could also ask us to give us the measure that belongs to us under the Rules of Procedure, I have no objection, because I advocate that each of the 250 MPs is literally applied to the Rules of Procedure. This is not the first time such insults are brought to the MPs, as in the bar, half-drunk society could not be heard. We are characterized as temporary ladies with abstinent crises. I don't know, I'm not in any kind of crisis, and if anyone sees it best when they take a word here at the pay phone. What you're told off the record, past this pay phone, is already incomprehensible. If you heard that, I think that the citizens of Serbia would be baptized, they would not be able to believe what Mr. Seselj and some of the other radicals were saying, and even the female MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, MPs. If they were going to rip someone up in the hall, that would already be a question of who would rip who up, but it's not a topic here. We are Democrats, peaceful, quiet, but sometimes very bloodthirsty if necessary. So I'm asking you to ban threats. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] We're not at the market, we're at work. This is a responsible job. People sent us here to work responsibly, not to threaten each other and call ourselves the Mad Man Minister, Mr. Djelic Miki Mouse, who fell from Mars, Batic a scarecrow that scares children. I think it is high time to break this practice, even to the ladies, who are a bloody struggle to save themselves, their families, their children, and in the extreme line of the citizens of this country, came to this parliament. I ask that we make this clear and that the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic be warned about what he called the Jaftars. What a replica of the Rules of Procedure, all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4956	I'm obliged to give an explanation. I really failed to give a warning then, but believe me, I didn't hear it, because the messenger has turned his back, and I half of you don't hear what's said, believe me. I can give you a warning later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4957	To justify myself. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4958	You can't justify yourself, I didn't give you my word. You used that. Sit down, I didn't say you'd get your word. According to the Rules of Procedure, First National MP Lazar Marjanski appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4959	Are you giving me a replica? It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4960	Before I give the Rules of Procedure to the People's Parliament to Lazar Marjanski, I hear we're proposing to vote. So I find that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I have indeed missed the reminder of MP Tomislav Nikolic, but I have not really heard him insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4961	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4962	I'm saying it did. Then I suggest we make sure there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4963	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4964	You'll get your word when we're done with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4965	I get the word when I ask for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4966	Read Article 95. Sit down and read article 95. I propose that we make a statement about the proposal by Milka Marinkovic, that the Rules of Procedure in Rule 101 have been injured. [[Applause]] I'm putting the motion to a vote. For 110, against 37, the three abstentions, were not voted 28, a total of 178 MPs. So, a violation of the Rules of Procedure was carried out, Tomislav Nikolic, who gave offensive expressions to Milki Marinkovic and her colleagues. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, we have multiple reports. I gave my word first to the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski. (From O.R.: He quit. He gave up, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4967	I don't know why you're so rude and so rigorously breaking the Rules of Procedure. Why do you make most of them vote for what you suggested, even though they know that the Rules of Procedure has been broken. Article 95, which you are referring to, is paragraph 1 - to the MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives the floor immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. That's what I was warning you from the bench. The previous speaker finished his presentation, and I'm looking for a word, reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't give me that word, you want to do some more shops. If you'd listened to me, if you'd given me your word, you wouldn't have put most people in a position to vote for something that's not according to the Rules of Procedure, and it could be called Sunday. I accept that. I've had such a president of the assembly in nine years as long as you want. The lady felt bloodthirsty, Mrs. Bloodlock felt threatened because I, who got the word, had to react to her being thrown out of the bench, and she had no word. When you can't calm her down with your bell, how else can I react but so she has to shut up. Now I choose a word that is not offensive at all, and especially not for a lady, until she's exaggerating the lady and proves to me she's not a lady. I chose a word in Serbian. The word Jaftar refers to a woman who talks a lot without any meaning or anything else. That's not offensive. Please ask around, I grew up...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4968	Mr. Nikolic, I give you a second warning about the insult you have made to your colleagues again, as well as to me as chairman. That's a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4969	You know what, you're a young woman, you seem nice -- you can challenge, don't be afraid of what you look like to your patients, I'll just say once more that you're still and happy, otherwise you're a veterinarian by profession -- you really seem like someone who won't use such tricks. Please do not execute the dictatorship of the majority in this assembly. (From O.R.: Theme. We've had enough already. We've had enough already. You'd like everything to be honey and milk in this congregation, if I told you, my dear lovely gentlemen, and you every night to fly in like hillbillies into the flats of the radicals and to arrest people. No one ever arrested you. Even that dictator you say was a dictator, while he was in power, none of you bothered with politics, you wouldn't have come this far. You've found an opposition party to stop. Take it easy and don't get me to tell you again that you're a Jaftar.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4970	According to the Rules of Procedure? (From O.R.: He'd given up. Did you give up or did you not give up?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4971	I didn't give up. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, paragraph 4, and I believe that position 4 is the cause of Article 99(1) and Article 2(2). Read one and the other members, and you will see the cause of all these discussions, why this is happening to Article 101(4), I think it's the cause of everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4972	I don't see a member of 101 having an attitude 4, so I can't even comment. There's no point 4. It's called different, it's not called that. If anyone objects to the application of the Rules of Procedure, he must also learn to read it. I'm sorry. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Messenger of the People Cedomir Jovanovic, then, according to the Rules of Procedure? It's the same in the Rules of Procedure, isn't it? Then the People's Messenger, the Wolf. We've got plenty of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4973	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I apologize to those who came here to discuss, explain or criticise the bill, but I am obliged to, as head of the DOS parliamentary group, ask once more for the right to reply, calling for Article 96's position, a harshly injured parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. First he gets the word of one who points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4974	That's right, you're right. So, there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You will be entitled to a replica once we have finished our objections to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, in order that all MPs have applied. He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was absent, so he did not hear that Mr. Jovanovic was given the right to reply, although I did not insult the DOS parliamentary group. I was talking about the law for five, five and a half minutes, and in the end I just said it was against the law or, you let me know if otherwise, the president of the SRS City Committee Dragan Ljubojevic was arrested, because he glued the sticker - DOS is the worst. On no basis, under Article 96(2), you had no right to give the replica to Cedomir Jovanovic. On no basis. He could have reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, because I answered and participated exclusively in the discussion, and I didn't talk about anything else. The bottom line is, you're in a state like before, you're in a position to give a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but to call upon a replica, shortly before the Madam Chairman. When the MPs of DOS speak, it no longer matters what they say, whether they call on the Rules of Procedure or call on a replica. When someone from the Serbian Radical Party speaks, they can say anything and anyone can. I'll tell you now, since the DOS representatives spoke here a little while ago, so they said they were throwing away, and every time I go out for this pay phone, you throw. I used to tell you good day in the hallway, and I'm not gonna tell you any more good days, because it's gonna be offensive to you or I don't know what. And I can't even tell you a good day anymore, when you tell yourself about this pay phone that you're bloodthirsty. (loud from the O.R.: I said that. ) Well, that is commendable for this National Assembly and for the ruling majority, that you are bloodthirsty, but for a lady it is not commendable. You know, at least that's what it looks like to me. It seems to me that no lady should be proud of it and boast of it. Just once again, I urge you not to use double arches, that you do not have different approaches to MPs. Here, believe it or not, there's been another thing that's never happened, and now it's happened. Tomislav Nikolic was warned because those who threw him out of place, so they brutally violated the Rules of Procedure, said they were Jaftars. That's why he was warned. Well, it was never in any congregation. Please think about it and don't do it, let the debate run in the most normal way. If it's normal for her to say that she's bloodthirsty, that she's bloodthirsty, and that's not an insult, and it's an insult if you tell her she's a Jaftar, and that's why the warnings and the distances from the session are pronounced, then it really doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4976	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 99 and 103 of Section 2. Let me just teach you a little bit, it wasn't about dots, it was about an aline. It's for those who aren't directed enough. Don't give us lessons, we know so much that we read laws and Rules of Procedure and interpret it properly. Why am I advertising the violation of Rule 99 Rules of Procedure? "The People's MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly." As the dignity of the National Assembly is respected, I suppose everyone interprets it in their own way, the way it comes out for this pay phone, the way it comes into the debate, the way we treat each other in this room, but it's obvious that you gentlemen, during the session, you in DOS, read the paper, fill out the puzzles. I would suggest from this place that we form a committee to determine if you have properly filled those puzzles, well, if so, to remain MPs, and if you are not, let's do it again. Article 103(2) refers to the president of the National Assembly, who threw this to me: "You won't be left much if you continue like this." Let him say he didn't say that. Is that how my physical or moral integrity is threatened? I guess so. I really don't know what he meant but to interpret it the way I did. Maybe he thinks someone here in the National Assembly building is liquidating me to do something that's inappropriate to a lady. Let him explain it, but he can't deny that he said it. On the basis of the same article, you voted on the proposal of the MP yesterday to exclude Professor Vojislav Seselj from the session. I ask you in the same way, on my proposal, to put the vote now, no matter how the vote ends, whether the National Assembly president should be expelled from this session because of such a threat sent to me as a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4978	I'll give you an explanation, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. I admit that I said what I said and I say that to the press when they ask me how I see the current work of the National Assembly. I am just explaining that yesterday and the previous days the National Assembly has made probably the most difficult decision, which is the measure of distance from the session of a National MP. It is a measure that must be applied if at certain times other means do not help to enable the normal work of Parliament, when there is a danger of the strategy of blocking Parliament's work as an institution, and we had it in action yesterday. Look at the stenographic notes and see, I looked at them in the meantime. I've read all this stuff you objected to. I looked at the whole stenogram and saw yesterday all day about what was said on the agenda for about 25 minutes, all day long. It represents nothing more than an attempt to block Parliament's work. I don't know how you interpret it. As the last measure of yesterday afternoon's incidents, the National Assembly has brought the most difficult measure of distance. If it continues with such phenomena and functions, it is perfectly natural and it is the obligation of the National Assembly to continue with such measures, in response, to continue. Until one moment, the tolerance of the congregation’s majority can bear fruit, and from some point on, if it does not bear fruit, then the thresholds change. That's what I said and it's an interpretation. I will, of course, put your proposal to a vote if you stay with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4979	I want to tell you, Mr. President, since you talked about it again, you talked about what happened yesterday, although the Serbian Radical Party's MP spoke about what was happening today. I need to tell you a few words. First, you have now admitted to us that because the labour law has been spoken of for so many and so many minutes, that because of this you have expelled Vojislav Seselj, you could not find a single word of faith, nation or anything else. As you said and as you spoke yesterday and today all day, I invite you to say once again how he put it at risk was whose national and religious rights, which, by which terms, and I'll tell you that you're not... You say that three times. (President: Don't throw it away, there's no need. And you won't warn him? (President: I just did it if you heard correctly. ) I'm just telling you one more time, you threw out a man with a completely wrong explanation, no explanation whatsoever, and you hurt the Rules of Procedure in both material and formal terms. Here's a stenogram, I can't falsify stenographic notes. It can go to authorization if it was some sort of correctional error, but not a fake to bring, not to completely change the content. In that stenogram, you could read the most difficult and worst possible insults expressed at the expense of Serbian Radical Party MPs that you had not responded to at any time. You're talking about tolerance, Mr. President, whose tolerance you're talking about. The worst terms, the worst words you've used here, and you're throwing out our MPs, not guilty or indemnity, you're still saying you're toleranced, so you're going to keep throwing out. How much you're going to throw out today, one, two or three, when you're scheduled to take a break, so you can make a deal. Don't just, please, talk more about your tolerance, because you've shown your tolerance. We do our job in the best possible way, unlike the good part of your majority, we read the laws, we try to get out to talk meaningfully about them, but don't give us sermons, don't give us sermons about where there isn't any place, and especially not about tolerance, and that those who distance MPs from the National Assembly have been telling us about tolerance, which hasn't really happened since 1990.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4980	It's always hard for me to talk,... It's not your turn, you can point out the discrepancies with the arguments that have been used. You said it was the wrong argument. The argument, the argument can't be wrong, it can only be unsatisfactory for you. I think we agree here, unsatisfactory for you, and for the majority who made that decision, it's satisfying. It can't be wrong or true, it's what it is and what it's like in the notes that you're referring to. I'm going to put your motion to the vote first that the National Assembly declare that there has been an injury, but on whose side, on the part of Gordana Pop-Lazic or on my part to propose my exclusion? Please specify, now she's saying something else. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: She asks us to vote on your exclusion from the session on her proposal. That's right, on my suggestion, you can't on your proposal after... View the authorised notes. Mr. Budimirovic made a proposal, and I pointed it out as self-serving. What can I do for you, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? At least we realized that there was a hole in the Rules of Procedure, that there was no one to propose the exclusion of the president, except him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4981	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure have been violated by the provisions of Article 98(2): "No one has the right to warn the MP who exposes him and to draw attention to him in any other way while he is behind the pay phone." It is quite true, while MP Tomislav Nikolic was behind the pay phone, several MPs practically conducted direct dialogue and direct speech with him. With that in mind, it's inappropriate for someone who's been advertising the Rules of Procedure and suggests that this, who couldn't speak for it, should be given a warning. It's unprincipled and incorrect. I'm no one's lawyer, I'm just acting in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Speaking later in the form of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milka Marinkovic said she had come to the Assembly, among other things, by fighting bloodyly. We need to know what the consequences of this struggle are, who is damaged, because the bloody struggle implies very serious real consequences for political and other opponents. That's true. So it is quite true that the MP was not allowed to begin his presentation, as it is quite true that he who did not make it possible to do so later stood up for this speaker and advertised the Rules of Procedure by saying that he was injured by a statement from the MP. Therefore, I ask the National Assembly to declare the violation of Article 98(2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4982	On whose side, who hurt, Mr. MP, Mr. Baralich? (Rajko Baralić: Mila Marinkovic. The vice president of the assembly didn't respond properly, and I know that wouldn't have happened to you. ) Okay, Article 96(2)? It's not, just a little bit, Article 98(2). I am putting the National Assembly on the statement of Mr Baralic's proposal that there has been... (Goldana Pop-Lazic, from the site: Please give my proposal first.) ) Does this apply to this too?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4983	Mr. President, I'm reading a stenogram and in line with a stenogram from yesterday's session, I'm asking to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, as I just put it. You said yesterday - I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Vlasimir Budimovic to give the MP, Mr Seselj, a measure of distance from the session. I demand that on my proposal now the Assembly vote on your distance from the session, because you have violated my physical and moral integrity, threatening me from that chair. Yesterday, there was a whole House of Representatives' room behind us when you announced your break and after you turned off the microphones, she yelled, "Out, fascists." Who should be disfellowshipped from this session, who here is spreading and religious... (DOS emissaries earning: Fascists. Did the fascists, you said, you confirmed it. Please put in line with my proposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4984	I can't really put it on the vote to decide what you were supposed to react to yesterday, if you noticed a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday... (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: Today you have broken. )......................................................................................................... After the Assembly's measures were taken, three other MPs came forward for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you, look at the stenographic notes, were discussed yesterday, I think three or two MPs of your parliamentary group came forward, noticed by their conviction that the violation of the Rules of Procedure... (Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the post: It was easier to take care of the Rules of Procedure. ) Of course, and that was yesterday and now we can't put something that's history to the vote. Here, look at the stenographic notes and we're working on the Rules of Procedure, I really don't have anything to put to the vote on your proposal that yesterday the Rules of Procedure was broken? (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: Today you broke it. In yesterday's decision? You threatened me, did you threaten me? I asked you if you put it to a vote, then it's not what you just said. I'll put it to a vote, and I'll just write down what we've got. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? We have two proposals from the MP, Mr Baralic, that there has been a violation of Article 98, by the chairman... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Read a little of this Rules of Procedure, cannot be a member of Article 98.) No one can interrupt the speaker, please, that's what Mr. MP called for, it's not my place to change. Article 98(2) (Tomsilav Nikolic, from the post: You said Article 98(2)) It's in the stenographic notes, it'll be right. I accept the remark, I was wrong. I place this proposal on Mr Baralic's plea to the National Assembly. For 53, against 98, the abstentions were not voted 27, and a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has established that there has been no breach of Rule 98(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to vote on Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic's request that the National Assembly make a decision that a breach of Rules of Procedure under Article 103(2) has been done on my part. That's a suggestion. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this by voting. Here you go. We're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4985	Please, Mr. President, don't engage in public deception. Gordana Pop-Lazic did not ask to determine whether you had hurt the Rules of Procedure. She asked us to vote to exclude yourself from the session under Article 103(2). It doesn't say "infringement of the Rules of Procedure," it says -- the distance from the session is taken in two specific cases. I think that's how I vote that you really deserve to be disfellowshipped from the session. You have threatened the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group that we will not be in this room. That is the decision of the Assembly. All you have to do is put a vote on Parliamentarian Gordan Pop-Lazic's proposal for you to be expelled from the session's next course. That's what her proposal looked like.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4986	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4987	Mr. President, the respected presidency, Gordana Pop-Lazic is not president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and therefore its formalised request cannot be put to the vote before parliament, since such a thing is exclusively in the power of the National Assembly president. The Assembly can only be declared whether or not the President of the National Assembly has broken the Rules of Procedure. The assembly will declare this, but no Parliament can assume on itself those powers that are exclusively in the hands of the National Assembly president. That's how we acted yesterday in the case of Mr. Seselj and the proposal of the MPs from DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4988	Here you go. Mr. Ivkovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4989	Dear Mr. Chairman, ask the MPs not to do what they did while MP Tomislav Nikolic spoke, tossing. Although the assembly now voted that there was no discarding, the MP who threw the phone at the speaker said he was throwing it away. It's true. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4990	Don't throw now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4991	Dear Mr. Chairman, I estimate this assembly has come a long way. What happened yesterday afternoon and what's happening now is far from the agenda point called the Labour Relations Act, the agenda item, which, Mr. Chairman, has been spoken by 17 Socialists and in none of these speeches you can find anything that was past the agenda point. Therefore, I do not know where you found these 25 minutes on the labour law, when 17 Socialist Party of Serbia MPs spoke exclusively of the labour law. I think this assembly has come a long way. This is all that's going on, I mean, past the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs. We will not rush into the trap of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and those MPs who speak for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who are powerless to explain the draft laws, because the proposals are disastrous and make us talk about the past. We're not going to accept those nicknames about the past. We won't, because we want to make you talk about the labour law and tell the truth, that working people know that their president of the Union of Independent Unions...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4992	Mr. Ivkovic, you are now in violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you have applied for the Rules of Procedure for the ousting of MPs, and are now talking about the government's strategy. As a citizen of Serbia, you cannot speak in Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4994	I'm a representative here of the citizens of Serbia and I want to say that the citizens here have chosen us to do our job. Here, the citizens of Serbia have chosen us, that 250 MPs bring legislative projects that will bring order to Serbian citizens, peace, bring prosperity, economic and family, and we are here in a situation that political debates between Members of the two political options. I have to tell you, Mr. Chairman, now that she's back, and the vice president hasn't returned, I highly respect you, Mr. Martian, and I think you're taking very well the meetings of the Serbian Parliament, but know that the lady who replaces you is far worse than you do. She's really a cheerleader. It allows MPs, DOS representatives, to say those things that are not in the agenda at all. I was ashamed to read last night a stenogram from a discussion that preceded the exclusion of Vojislav Seselj. In those stenograms I found all kinds of, rusty forks and spoons, pulling out my eyes. It is a shame to say such things in this congregation. I call and appeal to all MPs to return to the agenda, and that's why I answered. Please, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4995	Mr. Shabic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4996	I refer to Article 99, which requires all of us to respect the dignity of this congregation. A moment ago, Mr. Ivkovic, we from DOS and, with circumstances, and for the first time, I guess together, and the gentlemen from the Serbian Radical Party, received one warning about how we should behave. Not to quote now the countless provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which here, in the work of this Parliament, are unfortunately systematically being violated. I will appeal to something that is right at all, and then thank God and the Rules of Procedure, as it is a couple of excellencies legal acts, almost as strong as law. No one who violates the rights should base their rights on that fact. You know, Mr. Ivkovic, the other day I watched the whole group and you guys open up the quorum issue -- when you're already here to figure out how we should behave, how we should and how we should do it safely -- how you draw cards, so you call on the quorum, and then when the quorum clearly exists and you ask for a count, then you leave the hall with a running step. Then when the workers count the MPs in the O.R., then you walk in the little door, and you sit down. That's disastrous. Someone like that can't tell us about the dignity in the work of this assembly, and especially not the representative of the political option that he's sending us from some rally in Novi Sad, which I'm not going to quote here. It's not my idea to say it, and this isn't about you, Mr. Nikolic, it's about the party of the gentleman. I'm sorry if I went too far, but again, no one who violates law can be called first.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4997	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4998	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for giving me the word for the replica. The DOS has 176 MPs. Don't expect the opposition to give you a quorum. Keep 50 busy, and 126 in the O.R. you have to have. The opposition will never give you a quorum, because there are 176 of you and you must have your 126. It is a principle that is not only in this House, but in all parliaments. If it is something that is really of great importance to a country like southern Serbia, such as Kosovo and Metohija and everything that is happening, then we will sit down 126, because it seems that you will not be enough when it comes to these things. As far as taking out the cards, I say it was one time, when DOS wanted to take advantage of the fact that the MUP suddenly remembered that the papers with Vojislav Seselj's jeep might have been wrong, and that way you took all the MPs out, when you wanted to take advantage of the fact in a rather unpleasant way for you, for your reputation, that it was done until the agenda with 26 points of the legal projects ended, when you showed the Serbian citizens that you wanted to manipulate that agenda and make it the way the government suggested, and then we rebelled. If you knew, if you had a quorum, we'd all go out at every point, because we don't let things that are of any interest and importance to the citizens of Serbia get messed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u4999	Here you go. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5000	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to point out the violation of Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure: "The President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." In Article 100, "The National Assembly, on the proposal of the President of the National Assembly, may, without search, impose a measure of distance from the session" and apply Article 105. The Rules of Procedure "and the measures imposed by the National Assembly shall be applied for the sitting at which it is spoken". Mr. President, first of all, the National Assembly has made a decision that opposes the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. By doing so, you cannot apply Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you did not respect the previous procedure for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5001	You again yesterday? Is that it? About yesterday? When, about what?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5002	Mr. Chairman, if you respect this Rules of Procedure, you cannot respect Rule 105 because the decision was taken against the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5003	What decision?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5004	About the distance of the Serbian Radical Party president.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5005	Yesterday?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5006	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5007	That's what we've decided, Mr. MP. We've already had several discussions on the subject, and we've decided on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5008	It wasn't this thorough. So there's no legal fact. He is the Rules of Procedure of the Maltena Constitution for this assembly. You have to respect that. If you don't respect the Rules of Procedure, how will you comply with the laws that you now serve here?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5009	Don't worry. Is anyone else answering for a word in the Rules of Procedure? Let's do some work. ) The word has a folk MP, Srda Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5010	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has an hour and 20 as the president read that I should speak next. It is a picture and opportunity of this session, but to cheer Mr. Ivkovic and the MPs who came here to work and adopt the laws, and I am sure that the MPs of the DOS are here with that intention, I will now say something about the labour law. This labour law is part of a broader context that we are considering at this session in the National Assembly. It is possible that the MPs, and even the viewers of this transmission, have forgotten some of it. Because we entered this story 14 days ago, so it was our first intention to regulate things in the area of tax laws, so we managed to adopt laws that reformed our tax system, so we returned some of the jurisdiction to local self-government, which was very important so that it could work. And now we've come to the harmonisation of the Labour Relations Act with amendments to the Tax Relations Act, so that our businesses can function normally...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5011	Mr. Mircic, don't get it. That's my concern, not yours, we've been trying to figure it out for a while. [[There is no comment from the Messenger Mircic.]] Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5012	With this labour law, which is just another step towards the transition that will happen to me in this country for hours, days or months and waiting for MPs to speak for 15 minutes, two or three hours, some MPs from the O.R., were running back to the O.R.,.... Is that one of those who complained about throwing himself at them? With this law, ladies and gentlemen, if you had looked at the table and addressed the minister with something else, except to determine what his union, union or association was called, and whether he was in power or not, that he represented trade union law, that you were informed of the consultations that the government and representatives of the ministry had with the unions, you would have come to the conclusion that we from DOS would vote for this law because he is good and he gets both his employer and his employees. The average salary in the economy, namely, is in the direction of this ministry, and of course no one has talked about it, which is now 4,087 dinars, according to current regulations, relatively easily digitron can be calculated, that the employer is on an annual level for one worker with such an average salary is burdened by 45,500 dinars. Under the new law, when the salary is calculated grossly, which we talked about and what is the essence of tax reform, the transition to gross wages, means a warm meal, a regress, that base is 5,434 dinars, and on such gross pay the burden is about 43,000 dinars. So, the law is good for the employer because it reduces, though small, burdens. This is about some 2,500 dinars on an annual level, for a worker with an average salary, but he is a much more profitable employee because of his retirement insurance base, which was much talked about by Minister Djelic, comes in 5,434 dinars instead of 4,087 dinars. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of this story is this: there have been a lot of concerns about workers, about unions, about businesses, about half-breeds, warm meals, regresses -- workers will receive salaries. That's the first difference. And that's the first quality this law brings. There won't be any more enterprises as social categories. To pay off some church girl who then doesn't go into retirement ground, then pensions are a social category and pensioners, as are most of our country's citizens, social cases. This is the situation that this government has encountered and which this government has to address. It is a situation that will be partially resolved in the draft of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, it's our job to sit here and pass laws. So I'm not going to congratulate you on what I look like, please God, the last registered speaker, and we're finally going to move on to the rule of law decision in principle, after three days, where the statistics were next -- we talked about the laws on Monday about 60% of the time, and 40% are not, on Tuesday we're about 35% of the time, and that session ended yesterday as it ended, we talked about the law. I'm not saying the MPs were or weren't on the subject, but they weren't talking about this bill, they were talking about who was slaughtering whom, about what the president of the Parliament was drinking, about who was adding bottles here at the bar. That's what we heard here yesterday, so we spent 20% of our time discussing the law this morning. Who wants to know what brand of my jacket is? Ask me in the hallway. We don't have to talk about it at the pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finally doing what the Assembly is supposed to do. After the labour law, we move on to a package of laws in the field of social policy and then, thank God, to the law on ownership transformation, which will allow us to restructure our economy. As for those who don't understand that the time of the circus in this assembly has passed, "Forgive them God, they don't know what they're doing."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5013	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5014	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I spoke among the first speakers, when the Law on Working Relations began to be discussed, and I had no intention of answering the word again, that I had not had the chance to listen to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs last night, that he was making a statement here, in front of the door of this hall, and in that statement, very per se: the opposition is distracting, talking about us. Therefore, when we consider the overall behaviour of our MPs here, in this room, which we have every right and obligation to ask the citizens of Serbia and on their behalf here, we must also consider the behaviour of all of us, but also of the members of the government, when they speak in this room, and of us MEPs in front of television screens. Let's start with a good -- the Socialists support the idea in the Law to introduce minimum earnings, instead of guaranteed profits, and that's the only good solution in this law, the solution that we absolutely support. The problem with applying this minimum profit solution is that employers are required to pay 35 per cent of gross earnings in the Republic of Serbia from now on, and we are now coming to an answer to the question - why is this law not good? The law absolutely adjudicated the current situation in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. We have an explanation for why he's like that. You don't have to listen to that explanation, so I won't tell him, but the fact is that from September to today 50% of the economy has stopped working, relative to the economy it's been working. The fact is that only 25% of Serbia's economy is working today. The fact is that we here in the Assembly have to initiate government incentives to move, make it stand, make it better to sell in tomorrow's ownership transformation. What we are doing -- we are now harmonising with tax laws, which is the result of tax laws -- is that now the business manager has no exits to affect the social status of his workers, in the light of what the union president, even if he is called independence, would have to represent. You can't afford 1,500 dinars to pay for a hot meal anymore. They're going to pay 700, because for their future 20 years, they're going to have to think about investing 800 in retirement for 20 years. Please, gross earnings are an EU commitment, we need to introduce gross earnings, but we need to have our eyes open, clear our glasses, and realize that business executives cannot now easily pay off this "damak's sword", which carries the Labour Relations Act. Can't a manager, can't a valve, can't pay for a regress, can't pay for a ride, can't pay for a field allowance, can't have a stimulating effect on the standard of his workers, can't bother them more to work. We could have said, "Let's make gross earnings on July 1st, 2002." We socialists would vote for that law right away. But here we have now tied our hands to the business executives, if you will, and to the company owners, tied our hands to have a social valve to repair the standard of their employees, so they can move on. We're strangling them with these legal projects, like we're strangling them with taxes and taxes. We simply, by this law of working relations, where we are ashamed to say that there is no gray economy, there is no grey economy in the law of extra profit. We will vote in favour of this law, and you will receive amendments, to which and how to hit the gray economy, to explain all those who were in opposition, and now they are in power, where their apartments are from, where their houses come from, and why their taxes are 8,000 dinars per month, and they have income of over 200-300,000 marks. It's not a gray butt economy across the union. The grey economy was importing cigarettes, importing coffee, selling on black. We'll talk about it here and how, and who's what he's gotten these eight years, and how we socialists are open to it. However, this law declares a grey economy something that was necessary and something that is still necessary today, something that allowed employers to stimulate workers who are doing well and that, paying them a warm meal, a stamp, a regression, a field supplement, in fact, gives them a valve for social status. I'm telling you, we'd like to vote for gross earnings, and that gross earnings have been going on since 1 July 2002, to give the economy a chance to get on its feet. What we're doing -- this law not only taxes everything, but workers should be told -- it's going to be less, it's not going to have a regression, because it's going to be twice as small, it's not going to have a hot meal, because it's going to be twice as small, because it's going to be twice as small. That's what you have to say, the truth. But, by this law, unfortunately, the minister who holds the presidency of independence reduces their rights to severance. Not that I don't know how to count net and gross, so they don't remind me here that I finished math, but take gross earnings, take twice gross earnings, take six times net earnings, and you'll see that the severances have been reduced twice to the workers. So why are you doing this to them? And now, we come to the finals, to the law of our own transformation. I can't help but say that this is the preparation to sell social and state property easily and that this is the preparation for future employers, who can easily buy, easily and fire workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5015	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5016	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am glad that we have managed to get back to our jobs, although part of it is, quite certainly, parliamentary obligations and opposition and mutual opposition, which, unfortunately, often goes in a direction that may not be desired, which we should not be too proud of. I'm going to try and do what I did now, I think, more than once, so I'm dealing with facts. My predecessor, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, a party that has created the character of our society for the past 10 years, called for facts, but I am sure that in no case has mentioned these facts, not a single fact, not in detail, just clear political views, but absolutely unargued. You have accused the government and the DOS parliamentary group that this bill practically wants to provide preconditions for the sale of social and state property. Social property, Mr. Ivkovic, as a representative of a party that has been in power for 10 years in this country, you've been trying to transform for 10 years, and when we do today's analysis of the transformations, you'll see that just the representatives of your party in power have made possible what you're accusing DOS today. You're accusing, repeating, without any fact, and accusing us completely unfounded, since I don't know why you can draw that kind of conclusion about us, because just two months ago, you've criticised us as those who are delaying reforms in society, by holding back the existing Law on your own transformation, which led to an unimaginable paradox, that the last two months of your authorities involved 100 times more social enterprises in the privatisation process, than was the case for the past 10 years. That's a very clear fact. A hundred times more companies have been involved during the transitional government's privatisation process than it has been for the past 10 years. At which prices and how the directors of these companies, which as a rule, did not always, but by the rule of the SPS members, begin the privatisation process. It doesn't contribute to social justice, which you here formally advocate. When we talk about the right to work and existing legislation, which defines such a right for the citizens of this society, I will remind you that during the period of your government, 14,000 companies in this country have failed, that 1,100,000 people without a job, that 60% of the working population is either on leave or on forced leave, or on a salary of 200 dinars, or without work, to live in a country that is in debt, not externally, but internally, an enterprise -- a company, a social enterprise, a company -- a state, and a state enterprise, for over 800 billion dinars. And when finally, we're talking about social justice, then we need to look at the facts that your authority represents in a significantly different light. We are ready at all times to account for what we are doing and to point out, among other things, both before the congregation and before the citizens, the way we have acquired all the property, if we have it. This can't be q45. For years, nor is the law whose draft was forwarded to the public, an attempt to bring this society back to q45. On the contrary, the extra profit tax law is our attempt to re-establish the principle of social justice in this society, which obliges us that the representatives, by the rule of the party that you represent here in the Assembly today, are taxing because only they were able to borrow funds from Serbia's renaissance loan, that only they could have had the funds from the primary mission, that only they could have had a monopoly position, and based on a monopoly position to do so, that only they could buy foreign exchanges from the NBJ on the official course, which on October 5th was five times lower than the real one. These are the basics for taxing extra profits, and none of our wish is to go back to c45. One year, we're going through people's apartments and houses, wallets, bags, billing only for situations where they're possibly our political inextricators. So, by dealing with facts we'll get to it. You support the principle of gross wages and minimum earnings, but at the same time you are not ready to accept what is logical as a result of gross principles and minimum earnings, which is a severance which is different in a formal sense from the one that exists so far, but also in the essential one. It's more than 13 to 25%. Maybe we didn't want to do math for a congregation speaker. We can do that somewhere else in the congregation, but here we can only argue on the basis of the fact that we call upon them when we are ready to announce them. No one in parliament in front of the DOS wanted to manipulate the law, nor to ratify the responsibility that follows us as a legislator. We're fully aware that the moves we're making are unpopular. Unpopular because we have to change the ten-year or even half-life heritage of a country and a society that itself has no perspective. It is true that the worker will receive the salary or his company will be prevented in further work. There is no point in keeping company workers, in a situation where he receives 200,00 dinars and thus define his future for the next 10, 15, 20 years, as a future without basic living conditions. Through the budget you have had the opportunity to see that we have prepared budgets that will be available at those times where certain social programmes need to be touched, especially in situations where expected and real social dissatisfactions occur. Since some workers will have to lose their jobs, but how do you think 35,000 flag workers are working on a program that itself is a program that has no perspective. How do you think workers in the textile industry work with technologies that were exceeded 20 and 30 years ago, with products that are not competitive, with prices that are certainly higher in terms of their invested work than the prices that their competition faces. So if we talk about this bill and if we talk about what the government is trying to do, as an executive authority, which we have authorized to do something like that, let's talk about it on the basis of facts, and the facts are difficult. We accept them as responsible people, because we are aware that these are the moves that will make a society in Serbia, which I believe you want too. Society can't make it through the policy that you and the policy that we're not prepared to lead. So, social justice, burden on those who can be burdened, fair laws and a clean debate in parliament with arguments and facts. (Apaluz. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5017	Mr. Ivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5018	It's not a replica, check your records, this is my third date for this bill because of the length.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5019	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5020	I thank Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic for his exhaustive presentation and for giving me the space in essence to further explain the facts to the ones they are. To return to what is not the subject of this agenda, I have announced, and Mr Jovanovic has passed the extra-profit law. I repeat, all that is proposed in the extraprofit law, extra taxation of those who had the right to buy foreign exchanges in the lower course, I support it all. We will vote for it, but we will give amendments that will show one reality that has been in this country for the last 10 years. The reality of the tragic grey economy, which was deliberately caused by the international community, which had imposed this state's embargo and which was destroying this country. The same Kragujevac, the same flag, is not Sloba Tomovic, a people's MP from Kragujevac, to blame that the bombed flag is a Kragujevac flag, has been destroyed. Therefore, because of the embargo there was a highly developed grey economy, because of the embargo part of society, the large capital of this society, which is financially powerful, and some in this hall know it very well, created huge capital in the gray economy. We'll be looking for socialists, if we need a social map, there's Bane Ivkovic and everyone to prove where they got everything they got. There's an extra profit to be paid for, dear gentlemen. Not only those who directed or paid 6.00 dinars instead of 30,00 dinars to the brand, but those who acquired goods and five apartments in Belgrade and apartments on Zlatibor and apartments in Petrovac at sea will explain where they are from. Let them stay, but they'll pay extra profit. There are at least 50% in this country, and sometimes in the troubles of the embargo and 2/3 of the capital went through illegal flows. They're these big financial guys, who now have an interest in buying companies with their capital. As far as social property is concerned, if we were wrong, and I agree here, we were wrong not to speed up the privatisation process. However, the opponents to me in the ranks of the party I belong to were those who claimed that social property should not be sold out at the time of the embargo. You have to admit, at a time when there were no easy imports of re-compromiseds, when there was no easy exporting, when you had to export over three and four and five persons, you had to open private accounts so that you could even accept capital on those accounts and buy re-promaterials. At that time, please, at that time social property absolutely couldn't have the real value it should have. That's why the Socialists didn't rush the privatisation of the embargo, especially after the bombing, because it was unscathed. Please, Mr. Chairman, I have a good voice, but please, a very good voice, Mr. Minister. Do you notice what the Minister of a Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5021	I didn't hear it, but if he threw it...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5022	Mr. Minister thinks there are independent and free unions in the Union without being in the government of the Republic of Serbia and throwing the speaker out of the bench. Just so you know what the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia are doing. Therefore, the process of property transformation could be accelerated, but the transitional government of the Republic of Serbia, in which both DOS and SPS and SPS both made the logical decision necessary to speed up the property transformation process. She re-valorated the value of the brand dinar relationship from 6.00 dinars to some sum that was then, whether 25,00 or 30,00 dinars. From that moment on, Mr. Jovanovic, there have been hundreds of requests for the privatisation process, because you now had a realistic asset, not six times the value of the property. It is therefore an accelerated process of property transformation. What's going on? Now that you have a truly valued social property, instead of letting them own the property they created, it's such a coincidence that you know, many have not received salaries because they have invested in an extended reproduction, instead of allowing them to create an autonomous own transformation, Mr. Jovanovic, you are passing a law that prevents it. You're making it impossible for workers to carry out their own transformation and you're preparing a law that, fortunately, not just 10%, is how things are, but allows only 30% of the capital to be privatized within this country's collectives, and 70% of the time, at one point, you intend to give it up for sale. I have to say the sale, because 5,000 tons of chocolate doesn't cheer you up, and one chocolate you're looking forward to. When many assets of this country appear on this World Bank website, they will not be reached anywhere near the price that would be to go a slower pace and to enable businesses, without such legal projects, to stand on their feet, to emulate that horse, and to sell themselves well. As for the flag, the Kragujevac, I know very well that the Pejo has long been present and wanted to do so, but it had been preventing the work of the international community. I want, because of Kragujevac's workers, because of this state, to negotiate with Pejo, because that is certainly the way to invest foreign capital, by investing new technologies all this country puts on its feet. For the sake of truth, Mr Jovanovic, only one example - if you have a Article 1, says: up to 10 years of insurance, at least in double profit. That's gross profit. I know so much about math, as one MP said. And earlier, up to 10 years ago, there was an insurance rating rate of at least sixfold. If we take the example that the average net profit is 4,000 dinars, if we're going to get facts, 6 h 4 = 24. If we take that net profit of 4,000, gross 9,000, 2 h 9 = 18. On the simplest case for you, you have reduced it to the workers of 6,000 dinars. And if you'd just taken an example in 30 years and compared a 12-fold net salary and a five-fold gross salary, then you'd come up with two times less getting, well, the facts work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5023	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5024	Mr. President, I ask you to determine whether I have the right to reply to Mr. Ivkovic, who mentioned me personally, and he also mentioned the legal projects I am defending here on behalf of the Government and the MP group of DOS, and that he was given the word as head of the SPS parliamentary group, under the law that belongs to him to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5025	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5026	Zainsta does not stand for what you have stated here as a fact that contests such a bill. In the transition between net and gross wages, there was a need to change that relationship in the severance. It cannot apply the gross principle and retain the number of severances prescribed by the 1996 Labour Relations Act. In this respect, the need to reduce the number of severances, which does not refer to the amount of each of these severances. When an existing tax burden is applied, when the assumed average profit is applied, when a minimum profit is defined, when reliefs are determined through reductions made by the suspension of taxes, taxis, through tax reform, from 13 to 25%, depending on the model, are the advantages of this law compared to the existing one. There can be no less, and at the same time we can enter the severance and severance levels that have been paid to workers who have lost their jobs or workers who have asked for such a thing. Finally, there is another component of social justice, since we often resent not taking care of the interests of workers. The fact is that some workers in the privatisation process will lose their jobs, because it is not realistic to build Serbia's future on the collectives of enterprises that we inherited from the socialist period, which, as a rule, functioned on the compensation of social justice for production, which in itself was not what the profits and wages were, and today we have to think about the million-dollar debt we have to the world, whether it's a London or Paris club. This country owes billions of dollars, precisely because the communist regime and socialist society bought social justice with loans they took abroad. So, every worker in the 24-month period will be taken care of by severance, for every jobless worker, budget funds for retraining have been provided. Finally, we count on the privatisation process to create new jobs, because there is no example of a country in the world where privatisation took place, and that it has received fewer jobs in its final term. Privatisation is a step that we and you both want to take and a step that this society will move forward and so will the workers, opening up a space for new jobs, for companies that will come from abroad, attracted by this law, because they have strategic investor status. The Pejo won't enter the flag if you share 80, 90 or 100% shares to the flag workers, and then you expect to do some capitalization. (President: Time. It's not reality, and it doesn't work anywhere in the world. Our reality is cruel and we must face it. I believe that this society will have the strength and that it will overcome these problems, because, as a rule, whenever we did, we were the ones who ultimately had no reason to be ashamed of their profits, except in situations where they were hampered by either bad laws or incompetent management or the unreasonable relationship of the world to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5027	The word has a folk MP Rajko Baralic, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5028	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, socialism, above all, characterize socialist production relations. One of the most important principles in these relations is the principle of social justice. As funny as you react to it, that's the principle that has allowed the largest number of people who attend here for decades behind normal and regular schooling, to become owners of a large number of goods, to normally get apartments, to fly and to perfect themselves, to live in a country where life was worthy. From this pay phone, even your Prime Minister, he said we should get back to the level by 1989. What, gentlemen, wasn't good enough in 1989 when it broke down in the meantime. To accuse all of us that, in decades behind us, everything has been ruined is completely immaterial and unprincipled. It should be as a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia... (loud from the O.R. - to kill yourself. Mr. President, the gentleman I can show you whose name I don't know, he said to kill yourself. So, are we going to work or aren't we going to work? If I have to show it, I can get to it, because only a thief and a naked man is shown with one finger. So, he's sitting in the fifth row, he's got some kind of bug hair and he's got a little book in his hand right now. Let him call himself so I don't get to him so I don't show him. So it doesn't make any sense what you're doing. Mr. Darling, who and when are they going to kill themselves, it's decided by someone who doesn't walk the earth. It's the least in your jurisdiction to bid on my life. Don't even try, you'll have a bad time. Nenad Bogdanović, from the scene: Baralic, it's not us, Mothers. Don't throw it away, please. Stop throwing and let the MP speak. I repeat, where an rude man interrupted me, as a socialist I should advocate and vote for this law because it would be a negative reference to your political option. But for collegiate and political reasons, I can't vote for this law, as you suggested. The head of your parliamentary group, I am sorry that he is all the president of the parliamentary group, because also a number of people among you I have different views and I have a different relationship with them, he said, among other things, that we are responsible for creating a political and social environment for the past 10 years and that everything has been ruined. Dear gentlemen, in the last 10 years, the international community has created such a social and political environment... (President: Please stick to the topic, that we do not conduct general political debates here. ) Everything is absolutely in the domain of the agenda. An international community has been created, which has been created by the unprecedented sanctions, the pressures, the fragmentation of the state, to get us into the position we were in and that has allowed you to come to power. That's the point. You can talk now, it is one way or another, but when you're alone in front of you, tell yourself, don't tell us. The labour law is the most subtle law that regulates the rights of employees and the obligations of employers. You said, among other things, that this law would satisfy both workers and employers. There's no law like that in the world. You create conditions called liberal capitalism, above all. He's still on stage, so-called. the initial accumulation of capital. You will be responsible for the social situation in this country that has begun and continues. As loud as you are today, drowsy, it is clear that what is happening does not go into favour with the option that today holds power in Serbia. You have a minister for a man who was a union fighter. I don't have anything against it, I don't have anything against a man personally, absolutely, but he talked differently at a rally in Chačka and visiting on TV shows in Chačka, from what he's saying here today and what he stands for here. But that's his problem and the problem of those who frame him. I'm just saying that the political struggle isn't consistent with him and that he was saying one thing and that he's doing the other. The law that you will adopt today, as well as everyone else, will disqualify you. In the time to come, you will have to explain to those people whose rights have been laid, but that is the weight of the exercise of power, and that is an opportunity for those MPs who are in opposition to criticise you on those elements and to draw political points out of it. Don't be angry about this, when some MPs apply all the means of political struggle. That includes, among other things, what you call obstruction. So anything that's allowed can't be banned. I'm not a socialist because it was modern before, I'm a socialist because I think socialism is a system that can provide every man with a decent life, that his children, normally school, can be treated normally, and that can do for those goals what Dimitria Tucovic and those before him did. But today being a socialist is much better and much more modern than a few years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5029	Mr. Baralic, please return to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5030	There will come a time when all of us will be a bit of a socialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5031	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic. Please stop throwing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5032	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not answer the discussion to extend the time of work of this assembly, but to say something I had not heard in the previous debate. I spent my entire working life in the economy and believe me, I know the situation in businesses. Believe me, it was never harder in the economy than it is today. So many laws, or amendments to the Labour Law, sound a little unreal when it comes to the real situation in the economy. I said, I've been working 26 years in the economy and I'm not saying this because my firm is in such a situation that it doesn't pay taxes and contributions, because this law won't hit those companies that have worked successfully so far, even if Minister Djelic's promise that they will be reduced to earning workers. What's reality, what we all as MPs have to see, is that the biggest part of the economy is in such a situation that it will be drastically affected, precisely by these legal solutions. For objective reasons, I have not been able to submit amendments to this law, but if I were, then I would suggest to the Government and you, the MPs of the DOS, that some of the solutions of this law be postponed in terms of economy. Especially to delay when it comes to large enterprises, large systems, and especially when it comes to companies listed in the 75 names of our largest systems that need to be transformed according to the previous government's decision under special law. Also, the future laws on this agenda are in this context and I think it's a shame we didn't put together a discussion on this issue, so we discussed pension and disability insurance, the protection of the unemployed and the health insurance of our workers. Why? Because in this context it is important to mention that in the future, according to this labour law, we will pay commitments on the lowest basis of 3,033 dinars of net earnings, on the highest basis of something over 12,000 dinars, for the Doctors of Science, for the high professional preparation at 9,400, for the higher professional provision of 7,000 and something, etc. Now the question is, how are we going to do it in conditions where the economy is inequitable, and when we are as employers obliged to pay off, if we don't earn it, then the minimum profit, and at the same time this law requires that these payments be made exclusively in cash. Why do I mention that provision of the law - exclusively in money? Because, as a man of economy, I certainly cannot see any reason why a part of the profits could not be paid, we often mentioned it, and by half, but under the obligation of the employer to agree with the union, to make appropriate decisions on the board of directors, and to make tax returns, and to contribute, in accordance with the law. Why am I talking about this? There's a lot of companies that did the job... Please, gentlemen of Parliament, it would be correct for you to listen to me, if nothing else, I speak neither politically, nor speak as an SPS MP, but I am speaking as a man who has some experience in it, and I think we will come into a situation that and what we can do for our workers, if we apply a strict and non-selective law we do not do. If the union is agreed, if the worker is in agreement, if the Management Board is agreed to pay off part of the profits in goods, in half, in any other matter and rights, and the corresponding taxes and contributions and provide pension, health and social insurance, what is the issue here? It is a dispute that employers at this point do not have the money to pay off those full earnings in gross amounts, and they have done jobs that cannot be charged on the market. So it takes a selective approach to this thing or a provision that the employer who has not paid the minimum wage can be punished for being banned from working for 30 to 90 days. Please, that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5033	Please, don't flinch from the scene, answer the word, so say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5034	Please don't count me this time. Take this situation: I have money in my account, I have a tax liability on the basis of profit taxes, property taxes, sales taxes, taxes on services, I have a million dinars in my account, I have time to pay minimum personal income. What am I going to pay first, minimum personal income or taxes to the state? If I pay my taxes to the state, the inspector determines that I had money in my account, I haven't paid a minimum personal income to a worker, I have a potential risk of being banned from my work for 30 to 90 days. What does that get the state? Or, we agreed to the union, the workers, the management, the board of directors, we made a decision, we took a loan to the business bank, we want to buy a machine that improves labour productivity, provides greater earnings to workers. I've got the money in my account, I've raised my loan, I've got to pay the worker, but my employee is asking me and he's agreeing with me not to pay him off that month's salary, but to buy a machine where next month he'll make twice as much pay. What's the problem? So we can't just nail things and say it like that, this is our proposal, and you, gentlemen of the opposition, say whatever you want. Life imposes other solutions. So I couldn't stand the amendment, but I suggest you all consider that this law, as proposed by the Government, can be arranged in this context that I was talking about. That's what this is about, gentlemen of the Parliament. We here, in an explanation, are strongly calling for the need to protect workers' rights. None of the reasonable employers are against these workers and are against the protection of workers' rights. Do you think there's a normal employer who'd have money in his account without paying the workers' salary? You can't make a rule on exceptions. There are other laws for that. You punish in another way and you, Mr. Minister, you must know that not all employers are corrupt, not all employers are in a position to make what you call a gray economy, but it's not a gray economy or a warm meal, or a regression, a lot of other things that's being said here. Of all the receipts, I can only accept that the regress for vacation is something that could be counted as a profit. A hot meal isn't that. I came to work, so I have to eat something so I can work. It must be explicitly stated here that those companies which provide their workers with food during work, therefore, a warm meal, are not subject to the obligation to collect taxes and contribute to the height of that warm meal. My company organizes that when my employee comes to work, he has a bon, 9 o'clock he goes to breakfast and has breakfast. Is that a salary? Should taxes and contributions in these amounts be accounted for? You don't have to. My employee, who's only two or three miles from work, has transportation secured from my company, but he paid for the transport. Is that a salary to come to work and come home? It's not pay. Believe me, fellow MPs, there is no relationship on which the monthly map is below 800 dinars, which is a base that is not taxed. What about the builders, gentlemen? I'm in the field, separated from my family, and, if anything, I have to spend those 50 dinars a day on toilet paper and stuff. I don't live with my family, I'm separated, and you're counting on me to be paid and paid. That's not true. It's not a profit. Such incomes simply cannot enter the base, because it is not normal for them to enter into the base, but it is normal for every employer to force the law to the extent that this situation allows. So we need to make a selective approach. We can't suddenly give the patient too much medicine, he'll die. We now have a sick economy and are asking her to stand up and run. It's impossible. One more thing at the end, I apologize, Mr. President, we have deadlines, and by June 1st, we have collective agreements, and by June 1st, we won't finish, if we do this, the debate under these laws. We don't know what our retirement rate is, we don't know what the health rate is, we don't know what the unemployment rate is, we don't know much, and we don't know how to comply with collective agreements, and how do we apply these laws from June 1st? It's time, gentlemen, for us to start thinking rationally, not thinking from the point of view of our political parties, so that something can be one way or another. If we're already talking about the interests of the workers, we're passing laws that can be applied in the interests of the workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5035	No more registered speakers. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are having a debate in the principle of this bill. It was very fruitful and directs us, MPs of the opposition, to warn the citizens of Serbia and something that the representatives of the government have said here, which the law does not say, and which is likely to be the fate of many citizens of Serbia in the coming months. That's what we need. We heard that the country's economy will no longer count on enterprises that, at the time of the Socialists, Milosevic, employ a large number of workers, in which technology, whose production programs are below the limit acceptable to foreign partners, has become obsolete. One who has entered a factory in Serbia in life can rightly conclude that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not count on any factory that currently exists in the Republic of Serbia. That doesn't count on the factories, so be it, but what about the workers? The basic problem of this law, the whole bunch of laws that await us afterwards, is what about workers who are inevitably out of work because there comes a cruel exploiter who will no longer have reason to think about them in the way the predecessors thought. Why am I saying that? From the mouth of the ruling majority in this assembly, I have heard two definitions. They told the opposition that we were circusers, and that the ruling majority were bloodlocks. They'll think of the citizens, here's the circus boy being replaced by the bloodsuckers. If the bloodsuckers are really coming, you're not all in the MP's group. Then it is bad for the workers, especially if the laws that will be terribly cruel and painful are explained here by the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic. Then they are ill-written if those laws here, as the only government official, defends the minister I heard in the hallway, standing surrounded by five or six DOS MPs, I don't know what he was talking about, but when I passed, he says - and then some crazy radical shows up and just presses the button. Let him say I'm lying. Let him say it wasn't like that. (Dear Milovanovic, from the place: lies. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5037	Don't lead the controversy from the scene. You can answer the word and answer Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5038	It's said to me in the people - who lies, eats... Minister, your sinful soul. I don't lie in my life, but since you've deceived the campaign workers, how you've been raising up against the previous government to be a minister, that's how you behave in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not lying, Minister. There were five or six DOS deputies. You can keep your mouth shut now, because they're embarrassed, and you said-- then some crazy radical shows up and presses the button. What did you mean, I don't know, but I heard that. But there's a story coming about privatisation. We were warned by the president of the DOS parliamentary group that the privatisation so far was not good, that people had become rich, that in the last two months the rule of the transitional government had a hundred times increased actions on privatisation and businesses, that it had been initiated by the Socialists - directors, the privatisation minister, in order to have some wealth. I didn't just understand who was here and how he got rich, but I know why the workers insisted that privatisation be carried out before you came to power. You suggested that the workers would get much less from the factory, according to your law. You said there'd be a privatisation law right away, and here, it's been gone for three months. But some of the solutions that you provide to the press, from time to time, spontaneously, say that workers will get only 30% of the action, or maybe I'm lying again. If that's 30%, it's more than twice as much as workers have been given on the basis of the right to enter free shares and on the basis of the right to buy at affordable prices. It's a sign that there's a completely different sale of social enterprises. And how else am I to interpret than to prepare for kidnapping, the fact that Minister Vlahovic bought the Economic Institute under the old law. Which he did not wait for a new law so that he could enter into the buying-in of the Economic Institute, but the first value was taken off from three million marks on 350,000 marks, so several of them were very easy to buy, and now they, with the joint investment of the "Diloiti-Tush" in the Economic Institute, are the reviewers. They even evaluated the Federal Directorate of Special Reserve, our war reserve, military reserve, as well as the evaluation of the Deloiti-Tush, foreign companies, foreign agents. This is a warning for all workers, and also for the flag workers who, with you, are pressed with blackmail, agreed the other day, and here today I hear information from Kragujevac that you have already trampled those agreements. I'm not saying they shouldn't take agreements with you. I don't want to look like you from the past. If the government is agreed - the employer - the union, there's their agreement, let them sign, let them act according to the agreement, I'm just warning them to pay close attention to what they're signing, because they'll cheat on you. You're talking about retirement grounds here. I've been listening to that story for days. I can't go out for a pay phone. There's not much worth explaining to people anymore. Turns out the whole package of laws we're making so that from this month, or next month, pension workers get gross earnings to suddenly get all the double pensions they've had so far. There are very few of you here from the ruling majority, who do anything serious in your life. If you were as serious as the previous speaker, you'd know that the computer itself rules out the best 10-year average for a retired employee, and that average is mandatory 80 years ago. It's the time when my wife (94) got fired, like a surplus, but the severance was 4,000 marks, so we did something about it. Now the severance is 700 marks. What's the worker gonna do now? We'll see each other at this pay phone, if you don't shoot us, more than once, I'm telling you, all these workers don't stay out of work temporarily. They're out of a job forever. You take social care out of a factory on the street. The government has not taken over any law on the resolution and social care of those who lose their jobs. There's no law. There is no law which obliges the government to take care of people, even these people who have more than 30 years of training have reduced the rights they had during dictatorship until a few months ago. Suddenly they became equal to those of you who have 25 years of employment. I'm asking you, to have a private come to the world's most willing to invest in this country whether they're going to hire people at 35 years of age or if a black man is going to have our children who are 18 and 19, who can get stuck and work. And where will those who are 30 and 35 years of work, whose hunchbacks will they be on? Who's going to solve social problems with him? When he's going to come in at all to count on his retirement base, even if by this law of yours, it's a hundred times his pension, when he gets to 40 and 35 years of internship, respectively. I repeat, you're getting into a rough game. In the game of molding capitalism on a society that needs social justice for a long time. I'd like you to secure a lot of revenue in the budget. I'd be happy about that. If you were a successful government, why would we do politics, what would the opposition do, if you could succeed what we didn't, and forget the sanctions and the war. If you were to provide people with what you promised them in the election campaign. I'd like you to fill the budget, so there's nothing left to spend on. But that's impossible, my dear gentlemen. Even if you get some money on the side, that minimum aid only achieves to reach the level of social rights that existed in this country without any help.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this place we finish our morning work, we have more registered speakers and ministers who will give the final word, I suppose, and we have Mr. Jovanovic for the replica, so let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5040	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that there is just time for a replica, it is finally more polite to take advantage of that right now and answer Mr. Nikolic, than to do it in two hours, so I ask you as MPs to preserve the quorum so that I have a formal right to something like that. Namely, I agree with the freedom in the criticism everyone enjoys, but I can't help but insist on arguments. Anything you, like the opposition, and so do you, Mr. Nikolic, put on our souls today, are just assumptions. You assume that one day we will be as you described us in your earlier appearance. But we take away your moral right to something like that, because we, not based on assumptions but on facts, know that you are not the man who can take the liberty here today to speak for the workers, perhaps on behalf of others. But, for example, on behalf of the workers of the Red Flag Institute, you have absolutely no moral right to advocate their social justice. Perhaps there is another radical, I believe Mrs Pop - Lazic, Mr Vucic, Mr Vucurovic. They weren't on the board of the Red Flag Bureau. Perhaps they don't even know that the board of directors of the Red Flag Institute, in which you were a member, paid the SRS on behalf of the donor, by your decision, 128,000 dinars, on 19 May of last year, Mr. Nikolic. After ten years of sanctions, after the bombing, after the chaos of foreign agents. You've found 128,000 dinars in the board of directors of the Red Flag Institute in the workers' register to pay on behalf of the donor to your party. You have no moral right to qualify us for what you did earlier, nor am I allowed as head of the parliamentary group to agree and not to answer you, because you are not a person whose morals allow such a thing, because you do not have it. Every day we prove such a thing to you by facts, evidence, arguments, whatever you do not have.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5041	This is the end of the morning, gentlemen. [[Employer Tomislav Nikolic requests a word after a break.]] [[After break - 15,50]] I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to continue the session. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. Right on the line, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why Mr. Jovanovic isn't asking his party colleagues who are digging up our files to finally answer his question - is there anything on radicals that can be expressed behind this speaker as compromising material, as proof that we are criminals and immoral people, or is there no? It's already getting a little drab to talk about a few apartments that we got from the state and one donation from the SRS to the car factory, worth 120 and a few thousand dinars. You said I had no moral right to protect the interests of the workers. That's your opinion, probably supported by something reasoned. I'm not going to say at all whether you have a moral right, it's going to be decided by the people and this congregation. You are now the DOS representative in this assembly, you are the head of all DOS MPs. Now, what the people think of the Martian, they look through you, what they think of Professor Simonovic, looking through you. All DOS MPs in this assembly are you, you're their boss, you command them, you order them, you give them a word, as one of the MPs said. But, Mr. Jovanovic, ever since the DOS came to power, there's been so much bad in the possession of state and people's property, that we've done little kindergarten kids for sure, compared to you, and I think you've overcome what the Socialists have been learning for 10 years. Mr. Jovanovic, your cars, your security, cost the state 3,000 marks a day. You drive an Audi S8, completely blinded, you drive it yourself. Three cars are escorting you, eight to ten people, probably now employed by the MUP, your personal security detail. It's two or three more cars, wherever you go, Mr. Jovanovic. I don't know how Slobodan Milosevic drove, but no one in this country with such an escort and with such security was driving, no one until you showed up in power. You've estimated that your life is in danger, I don't know who, I don't think any of us in the opposition are from. You'd also pick up toothpicks from our pockets, how many searches you've already done with our people, which you think they have. But don't call us for something you don't even pay attention to -- you don't pay any attention to the costs you're bringing to this country right now, and you're just starting to exercise power. You do not notice that on the floors of Germany 22 metal detectors are now placed everywhere, now none of Minister Batic can enter the hallway until he passes through an additional metal detector. Already ten people from the Serbian government are driving in armored cars. How much does this country cost? And how come you're driving a car that says the state gave them away, and Milosevic Slobodan and Marko Milosevic? Now these cars were given to you by the state. Will one of the journalists press the loop and say - the state gave Cedomir Jovanovic an "audi S8", blinded, ridden, or maybe it's not a state car, maybe it's your own, maybe you've earned it. But don't give me any moral sermons if I haven't really committed a crime. I invited you 15 days ago to either call me an investigative judge, or leave that story alone. I don't feel like I'm morally unclean for this time of year since I've been involved in politics. [[Employer Cedomir Jovanovic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5044	There's no replica. This was a replica. (Employer Cedomir Jovanovic asks for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5045	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no need to avoid any issues. You have violated the Rules of Procedure in that part of him in which the freedom of MPs is defined to exercise the right to replication. I've replicated to you, you've asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you've received a promise from the President of the Assembly that you will have the right to speak about the Rules of Procedure in the follow-up session. All the issues of our basic personal security and the threats that follow the work that we do, the issue of security that surrounds us, we can solve through congregation working bodies, the Security Committee, survey committees, therefore, we will go through every form of parliamentary control and we will not run away from it. But our objections are not directed to you, for reasons why you're trying to criticize us. So you don't have the moral right to act that way, because you assume something, and you rule out everything that is your character, given that specific events were committed with your presence, consent, even if the donation was one dinar. So it's about the Rules of Procedure, given that a mistake was made in that you took advantage of the right to the replica, and you only had the right to breach the Rules of Procedure, which you finally requested.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5046	Mr. Nikolic has requested the right to replica after your third address. It lasted 10 minutes and the line for the replica is not disputed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5047	And now I'm entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5048	It's nothing to argue with, at least for me. The word has a National MP, Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5049	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, the Honorable Presidency, I went out for this pay phone, because in the speeches of some people, and especially the gentleman of the opposition, from the SPS, I found something honest in him, found a man who spoke of the subject, telling the truth about what he meant. Not to talk about those who go out, talk about one thing, and do everything else, talk about the suffering of workers, and they take money from those same workers. Why, and where do we differ when we talk about all this stuff? We differ from that, unfortunately, you ran a company in an economy called the chaos economy. The chaos economy has been invented for this reason that those who are at the head of that state can hunt in a dim state. They took the money from the banks, then they headed for the companies, and in the end, these companies were poor and led them to the beggar stick. I care about your employees, and when you talk about those halves you've been giving, they're really personal to you. This government, I must say responsibly, the smart government with the economists that we have chosen, as we have chosen them, forms an entirely different economy. It's an economy that comes from the West, a market economy, that will take care of the worker, his future, his pension, his children.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5050	Mr. Marinkovic, I ask you to stick to the agenda here anyway, so that we don't have a debate in principle on the programme differences of parties, but on a concrete law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5051	Yes, yes, I was struck by the theme of a gentleman who spoke like that, I see from his heart, unfortunately we listened to him a little. I just want to tell him that this law that we're discussing today is just one of the laws that would have to bring this people good. There are the first ones who, unfortunately, do not care or worry about this people, and these are the ones who take and draw the last penny out of his pocket. I just want to get this over with, the other day I'm asked by an opposition MP, I'm not going to say which opposition party, because radicals would be angry, he says, sir, since you've been in DOS, you've come to power, business in this country has stopped. As he stopped, I was surprised, so -- he says -- pressed the police, there's nothing to be done. It is so about in the chaos economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5052	If there are no more registered speakers... You are most well-intentioned, not mistakenly interpreted, on the contrary, you are commended. What's this? The replicas started when we boasted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5053	I'm sorry, gentlemen, I've identified myself, and I don't want to distract my fellow MP, but there's only one thing I want to clarify.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5054	Please, let's hear from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5055	There's one thing I want to clarify. I'm not the CEO of the company that paid the workers in the halves. On the contrary, I am the CEO of a company that exists for 20 years and has paid 15th month's wages for the previous month. All 20 years, gross with taxes and contributions. Even at the time of NATO bombing, we did it. So I'm one of those businessmen who's been filling the state's budget, but I've expressed concern for these speakers for those companies that won't be able to move quickly to a new system of accounts, taxes and contributions and to charge state funds. That's what I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5056	No more reports, closing the search. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5057	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, before you go to the vote, I would just like to make some conclusions and answers to some of the remarks that have been made by the MPs, which seem to me to have dominated these exhibitions. The main objection was, I think, why pay only in cash. Well, I think it's the basic human right, that's the right of workers to get their wages in cash and no one to tell him what they're going to get for their work. I think that the workers in this country are absolutely able to manage that money and buy whatever they want for their money without being the employer who's going to give it to him. There were examples in our country, that employers paid workers wages in kitchen cloths, so they were forced to sell after these kitchen cloths on a variety of fleas. I think the payout is cheaper and cheaper for the employer; I'll remind you that when they pay off in goods, the employer pays taxes and contributes on the same basis as in paying off profits in money.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5058	Please keep your voice down and let's hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5059	If the goods that are given as profits are obtained by compensation, sales tax shall be paid. If he gives his goods, accounts and pays sales taxes and practically, when paying off profits in goods, the goods given to the employee on behalf of the employee have a retail price. I think it's cheaper to make money than it is in goods. The second big remark was about a warm meal and a regression. I don't think this law abolishes either a warm meal or a regress, but is legally defined. The employer is obliged to pay for a warm meal and a regress, which is also defined by a general collective contract, Article 41, so that workers are not cut off on this issue. Since a colleague who spoke before me asked whether the workers would have this warm meal, that it would be regulated by the bonuses, of course they would still have it. The employer is obliged to organize a diet at the factory for workers and to keep the diet at the height of that regression, meaning that the worker can normally eat lunch in the factory cafeteria for his bon. No law has been abolished on that matter. The second question was about severance. You know very well that this right was stated, but it was not respected. It's simply a very small number of workers who have received any severance. At the break of this session, I was contacted by "Cablara" workers, who were forced to sign off on their severances, so that they could move to the labour market and that they could get that compensation on the labour market. This law guarantees that these severances are paid. They may be smaller, but they'll certainly be paid. I think this labour law increases the safety of workers, as currently, even in the future when they retire, and some of the debaters put it. That's why I'm proposing to the MPs to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5060	Don't get upset if anyone picks up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5061	They're nervous, Mr. President, because they don't think to go out for a pay phone, or read the Rules of Procedure, or the laws proposed by the Government, but only to get it over with as soon as possible and go home. I went out for this pay phone to point out a few things to you, and I'm going to mention to you a member of the Rules of Procedure, but first, I would like to talk about the Constitution, which says that the public needs to be assured of the work of the competent state authorities. This is the Supreme Body of the Republic of Serbia. We ask the question of who and whose order did the TV broadcast of this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia lift? For those of you who don't know it, it happened and everything that happened in the afternoon session no one could hear or see. When I talk about the public, I know that the president will tell me that she will be provided by making many of her reports and reports on various daily TV shows and tomorrow's newspapers. Given our experience and given the distortion of truth, falsification of truth, the silence of what the radicals are talking about, and the favoring of what the regime is talking about, I call upon you to provide a TV broadcast. You swore to it as a parliamentary majority, and we were transferred when we told that there was no provision in the Rules of Procedure for direct TV transmission, so that you would never end it, that you would not end it. You need to tell us what's more important this afternoon, why Serbian citizens can't watch TV, why they can't look at their MPs? I think it's still more important to work here than any sports event. You're like the directors at the games. I think you'll agree with that. I know it wasn't for you, but I thought it was supposed to be something that was supposed to be. (President: The MP will receive an answer. I'd like to ask you one more time to establish a quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5062	The public of work is the obligation of the National Assembly. Of course, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure, nor in the Constitution, has the law found that the public of work implies public TV. We have stood up for them as opposition parties for so long, and you have not given them to us. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: That's not true. Today we introduced them and did not lift them. That's my answer, and you can disagree with me. I'm giving you an answer about the TV broadcast. So there is no obligation under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to conduct direct TV broadcasts of sessions, and we do them. I personally gave consent to the RTS editors to transfer the transmission, and it was not removed, but transferred to the Third Channel because of earlier commitments regarding the transfer of the match to Yugoslavia and Russia. So the TV feed is in progress, but it's on channel three. At least that kind of consent was given.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5063	Just to point out one harsh untrue by the president of the National Assembly, Mr. Martian. It is true, Mr. Martian, that your MPs and we have once jointly advocated direct TV broadcasts at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we did not have them until the beginning of 1996, if I am not mistaken. Is that what happened, Mr. Nikolic? When we were in government, since 1998, there was a direct transmission of every assembly session. That's what's true, and that's what Mr. Martian and you who supported him in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5064	Since we've established two falseties, first of all, that your TV transmission has been shut down, and it's not, and my lie that you've been instigating TV transmissions while you've been in power, now we can move on with our work. If Mr. Vukic came forward after he broke his rules of procedure... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: He said you have told a lie. I answer to that. I'm bound by the Rules of Procedure to answer. (Božidar Vucurovic, from the place: The truth, not the truth. If you do not want answers, do not ask questions. I'm finishing the initial search. You asked to establish the quorum. I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to work with. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law, in principle. For 116, against 55, the abstentions did not vote four, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill, in particular. On the 1st National MP Bozidar Vucurovic, he tabled an amendment proposing that article 1 be deleted. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that I asked to be a member of the 1st Parliament. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act is deleted. By erasing it, it remains a previous solution, a solution from the previous law. We have been trying here for days to convince, not you, because you know it, but the citizens of Serbia, that this time and this legal solution are getting less. You've convinced us all these days that they're getting more, until today the minister comes out and says -- they get less, but on some other side they'll get more. This, as suggested now, is how, as you say, only in one case, in case all workers in this country get guaranteed or minimum personal income. Ask them nicely, Mr. President, since you're asking them nicely, and you're kicking us out, ask them to die nicely. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5066	I ask the People's Messengers to listen to the People's MP, Bozidar Vukurovic, as the submitor of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5067	A.F.G. again. In guaranteed or minimum personal income, workers will receive little more, but there are few workers who receive it. If I fire today, and I'm going to have to fire 50 of my employees soon, I'm going to send them to the Assembly so that you can support them for a little while, I'm obliged to pay every worker between 60 and 120 thousand dinars. With this solution of yours, I will pay them from 12 to 24,000 dinars, and that's fine with me. Then don't swear on the rights of the workers. The rights of my workers are very well cared for, they get paid every first month, the state gets their contributions, their taxes. You can't even write a number as much as I did last year, excise, tax, contributions, customs and other fiscal obligations, paid this country. Are you going to make a public note here or are you just going to ring the bell? I don't mind the bell. They don't seem to mind. They're noisy still. But what to do, you're so good at laws, so are the good guys who defend them. A union official who became a minister and head of a parliamentary group who could not properly complete a high economic school, and now defends economic laws in front of this assembly. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5068	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5069	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for this amendment would completely dissipate the law that we very much care about. This is part of a comprehensive reform programme, whether it is about those fiscal ones, which we have already made concrete decisions, whether it is about reforms in the field of labour rights, or reforms that will follow, in the area of social policy. I don't think there are any arguments that have been made before parliament by the proposer of this amendment and yet we insist that this amendment be rejected, and then we do the same thing with all those amendments that are, above all, motivated by the effort to keep things in the society in their existing state. Perhaps in the time left behind, someone could build a company, be successful with their employees, but it certainly did not allow the existing legislation to enable everyone, nor guaranteed rights specifically implemented in the case of this law. We have cited a number of examples, and the minister mentioned to you, for example, the procedure that the workers of the "Cablara" went to the labour market and I am surprised that those who were advocates of a critical relationship to this law have no comment on such a flagrant violation and law, and labour rights. So, for us, this amendment is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5070	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5071	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, reading the amendments, I have noticed that the MPs of the opposition have tried two ways to correct this article. It's a bill of law. The first is the one that tried to make it happen, MP Bozidar Vucurovic, to delete the first member, so that the law applies in the text in which it has been in force so far. We are confused here by representatives, on the one hand by a representative of the government, and on the other hand by the head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority. A moment ago, the minister in charge of this law told us that it was true that receiving workers, based on the severance, would be less, but would certainly be paid, he said. When Bozidar Vucurovic explained the amendment and said there would be less income, the head of the DOS parliamentary group came out and said that it was not justified and that it was not true, and that we want to keep old relations in society, and that was already a political story. One thing is quite clear - the workers will now have less severance than they have so far, it is quite clear. This twisting in gross earnings compared to net earnings can be accepted, but it can never be accepted that gross earnings is three times higher than net earnings, as the legislator here is trying to get us through and constantly reduces workers by one profit. You said -- now it's 1:1, and you said -- you're going to cut even the employer's obligations, so these obligations will be only 70% of the net personal income paid. In that case, this will be even less for the workers. It was very difficult for us to respond to this law, to the bill. On the one hand, a man has to think about employers, and on the other hand he has to think about employees. The opposition must find faults that will damage the employer and mistakes that will damage the employee. In this case, it is only a one-time obligation of the employer. In fact, he stops caring for the worker at that hour. When it comes to such a member, we must take care of the worker. His rights to the employer are extinguished by the severance payment. The question is whether, by the end of his working century, his right to the Constitution will be fulfilled in the first place, as well as his right to work. In that case, you must have souls, not only the market economy of foreign ministers, as said by one predecessor, the DOS representative who spoke here. In this case, you have to think about the workers. The preparation of the privatisation law is obvious that many workers will lose their jobs, and you are already pointing us to the fact that factories are unable to employ our workers with capital in them. You've already told the flag workers clearly and openly, only a third of those who are now employed. Then why are you reducing the obligations that someone has towards workers who will certainly lose their jobs? At the very least, the procedure is soulless. If they are really out of work, if they no longer have the opportunity, and they will not have the opportunity to get a job, especially people at the age of 25, and more, don't diminish their rights, as much as they had until yesterday, or until the day of entry into force of this law. I therefore advocate that you adopt the amendment, I advocate that when you propose some law, amendments and amendments to the law or a comprehensive law (and these so far comprehensive laws have been in fact amendments and additions to existing laws), we always find the best solution. The best solution, first for the worker, and then the best for the employer. We do not ask you to now pass a law which will be subject to a fivefold fee, or 50 times the salary to give to the worker rather than so far. We know it's insane. Don't ask us to vote for something that's immoral, and shortening the right, a smaller financial amount to the worker for whom the factory gate is closed forever, at least it's an immoral move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5072	I have just received information from the National Assembly Service, that in the same text as Article 1 of the amendment, the MP Srboljub Zivanovic also submitted. Would you like a word as an amendmentr? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5073	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1, paragraph 1, point 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law replaces the word "double" in the word "fourfold". An explanation - in order to protect employers' employees, I believe that the proposed amount is small and that it does not protect the economic security of an employee who, past his will, remains jobless and profitable. The proposed amount gives the employee some assurance that, for a period of time, without employment, there is at least some provision for existence. The economic situation in the country is very difficult, especially after the Friday-October revolution, when no business branch works or works with reduced capacity. It is very difficult to re-employ workers, and this proposed amount must be doubled. The amount given by the legislator must be doubled. Also, Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law arrived before MPs of the National Assembly without any consultation with the union. Now you don't need them, when you came to power, you used these unions, workers through crisis headquarters, choirs, rallys, to come to power, and today these unions have become social cases. I would also refer to the economy in the Mačvan County of Great Giants, related to this Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act. It's: "Viscosis" - Loznica, Velika Majdan Mine - Ljubovija, Chemical Industry "Zorka" - Shabac. "Viscosis," once one of the model collectives, didn't run its drives this winter because it didn't have any energy. The workers, about 70% of them, are paid, the factory is unable to pay any severance to the workers. The Great Majdan - Ljubovija is in similar working conditions. The Zorka chemical industry, the Sabac, once a unique collective, and then holding a company, and today it's nothing, you don't know what kind of organization it belongs to anymore. The severe crisis, the unhappiness, because the Zorka Chemical Industry, Shabac, should, according to its business structure, be protected by government and state. The imports of fertilisers, not raw materials, components, have brought the fertilizer factories into a difficult position, as well as their workers. The management of the Sappac fertilizer factory is trying to provide alternative programmes with salaries for workers and to pay the state tax, although the Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic, during his visit to the Holding Company "Zorka", Sabac, said it is archaeological value and needs to be closed as soon as possible. Today, the workers of the Zorka chemical industry take their fate into their own hands, in solidarity, will not allow any worker to leave his post as a technological surplus. We'll offer government representatives such severances when they become technologically surpluses. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday you interrupted me when I discussed the principle of the Labour Relations Act, and I think everything was on the agenda. Mr. Vesenovic, after taking the factory, bakes an ox in front of the factory on May 2nd, and Mr. Batic, minister of justice, on a beautiful and white horse should ride into the factory.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5074	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under these amendments, in the same text, to Article 1? No, I don't. I am putting this amendment to the vote and I am asking the MPs to declare themselves by voting. For 14 MPs, against 102, there were no abstentions, there was no vote 17, a total of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Nikolic Tomislav, submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5075	I don't need to give you any further explanation. I think by reason of the previous amendment, which requires the abolition of this article, I have also explained my amendment. Practically, accepting this amendment wouldn't have left the text of a law that's been in force so far, but to whom I'm telling it, there's no Minister anymore. If you run this assembly according to the Rules of Procedure, although there is no government in the whole system, at least the minister, whose law is on the agenda, should sit in benches. It's incomprehensible that not one single member of the government is sitting in a session. I am convinced that no member of the government will even make it to the end of the game at a session of the National Assembly. Then it turns out that we're only talking here for MPs, a team before the transfer was transferred to the third program, and the citizens weren't informed about it. I think the session will be interrupted very soon. I wanted to put gross earnings into severances, but to make it at least in line with what people had so far. There's no government official, no one to answer me, but we're taking off one gross profit to the workers just because instead of six net earnings being three, eight being four, predicting that the former 12 times the net profit is now a five-fold gross profit. It's a cut-off for one gross salary to the employees, compared to the incomes so far. Their salaries may be higher, but the higher the salary should not be the basis for abolishing and reducing the law's rights. Oh, God, make them bigger, so pay them more. They're out of work, taking care of those people. There aren't as many of them now as there will be before the end of this hot summer. Please determine the quorum before voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5076	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was pointed out by MP Tomislav Nikolic, because he suspects there is a quorum. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards to determine the quorum. Before calling for the service to determine how many MPs are present, I ask the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party to comply with the article. The 80th and 113st points 1st insert identification cards into their MPs' units. I'm asking you most nicely. The Serbian Radical Party has left the hall. I ask the service to determine the quorum by counting the MPs. The count found that 138 MPs were present in the hall, which means we have a quorum and we can continue to work. The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5077	I'd like to appeal to Article 166. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says the National Assembly sessions and its committees are public. Our wish was not to discuss this law, whether it is a debate in principle or a debate in particular, lead without public presence. We do not want to enter the termological evaluation of whether journalists or direct television transmissions are sufficiently concrete, but in time, as an opposition, we have criticised every situation in which parliament is working without television transmission, so I ask the assembly service to determine whether there is a possibility that the Radio - Television of Serbia can transfer the work of parliament and if that possibility is not possible to realise that Article 166 has been broken. A Rules of Procedure that guarantees the public work of parliament and that the session is suspended until the public is enabled.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5078	I am setting a break of ten minutes until we receive the necessary information requested by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-25-0.u5079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I'm obliged, before I realize that we don't have a quorum to continue the session, to inform you that television transmission, from 14.00 hours, when we gave a break, there wasn't, in our afternoon part of the work, television transmission wasn't done. In that sense, Mr. Vukic was right, and I apologize to him for saying here that he was false. I came from the fact that there was an agreement between me and the television editorship to transfer the transmission from another channel to the third channel, to allow their earlier commitments to take over the game of 14.00 hours and 17.00 hours on the second channel. First of all, we have the fact that we don't have a quorum to continue work and the fact that, probably for technical reasons, we don't have a secure television transmission, even though it's our decision to transfer the sessions directly. I conclude that the session will now be interrupted due to the lack of quorum and will continue to work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, with the notice that tomorrow will be the last day of work this week and that we will continue to work after the first holidays, so, on May 3rd, on Thursday. So we'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
