ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a package of five laws ahead of us, which should, at least according to the proposal's idea, be better regulated by the area of justice than has been the case so far. Unfortunately, no one is present today in front of the government or the Ministry of Justice, and I think that at least in this debate, if anything, we might learn something. One question can indeed be asked here -- how in the past ten months the government has failed to prepare a single quality law in this area and to discuss today the draft laws proposed by the DSS. This, of course, I do not want to reduce the quality of the proposings and the bill tabled by fellow DSS MPs, but I would like to say that the government is essentially not fulfilling its pre-election promises, because they were talking about having, prepared, full legislation and only waiting for the Republic Parliament and the Republic government to be built up and that these laws would be passed. And when it comes to the laws themselves, I will only direct your attention to three laws, since the time for debate is limited. First of all, I would like to say that I support the proposal's solution not to abolish any municipal court, which so far exists, and there are 138 in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that no district court is abolished, and that I understand 30 in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I am so grateful to the promoter for accepting one of my earlier thoughts or demands, that the Municipal Court in the municipality of Krupanj, which, as you know, is located in the area of the Mačvan County, i.e. in the area of the District Court of Sabac. When it comes to the other two laws - the law on the regulation of courts and the law on judges, I want to say a few sentences. When it comes to the law on judges, I think the proposer still had to come up with a solution in which the choice of jury judges, both for municipal and county courts, is done in about the same way as for regular judges. As a young man, I was able to be elected judge of the Joint Work Court. In today's terminology, it would be like a jury judge. But that's what I'm saying because these judges back then, and I think the jurors today, were able to decide equally with the judge in certain disputes. So, yes, as a rule, two jurors in some disputes can outvote the judge, and they can agree with him. From that fact, it seems important to see that the choice of jury judges should be done in the same procedure as for judges. The bill that we have received says that the High Council of Justice appoints judges as jurors, unlike decisions relating to judges, when that jurisdiction is in the assembly procedure, that is, in parliament. The High Council of Justice appoints jury judges on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, and the Minister of Justice is obliged to, before proposing to the High Council of the Court of Justice the names of the jurors, obtain an opinion from the general sessions of all judges, both municipal and countyal, or those for which the jury is elected. Now the practical question is raised here -- how are we going to get to avoid a variety of political influences on the choice of jury judges, if we don't know how the minister of justice comes up with an initial proposal for jury judges. In the case of regular judges, appointed by this assembly, or on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, we have a situation where the High Council of Justice announces an ad and that all people, who meet the conditions and who are interested in performing a judicial duty, report to that ad. In the case of jury judges, this is not the case, and we do not know how we are going to get to who is actually interested, and according to their professional abilities and according to their work experience, it is appropriate for them to participate in the resolution of various disputes. That's why I think the proposer could make this effort to equate the procedure for the election of jury judges with the procedure for selecting judges, in that section relating to the obligation of the High Council of Justice to announce the need to elect a number of jurors in municipal, county and all other courts, where these jurors are in an active trial before courts. I think it's important, among other things, and so that we don't have a situation where, when resolved in certain disputes, people who are less qualified to do these jobs, although by nature things don't have to be lawyers, to decide in some cases which, for example, are. as regards accidents, accidents, material damage or loss of life, or, for example, in economic disputes, etc. That's one thing. Secondly, I think that the role of the jury judge must be approached in a way that, compared to solving the material position of the judges in the courts, improves the position of the jury judge. According to my knowledge, these fees that the jury judges have to participate in the work of courts at all levels are to this extent low and symbolic to receive a more expensive pack of cigarettes for the whole day in court, as judge of the jury. When it comes to the jurisdiction of the courts, or the law on the regulation of courts, I would like to express my concern regarding Mr. Michael's statement, which said that there will not be much change in the number of courts, in the district courts and in the municipal courts, although some of the powers, or a large part of the jurisdiction, have been moved from the municipal courts to the district courts. And it seems to me that we will come, at least for a while, to the situation that we will have a lack of judges in county courts and that we will then be forced to move judges of municipal courts to district courts, since the jurisdiction of district courts is expanding, especially when it comes to labour disputes. We have before us the adoption of the Labour Act. I expect that, based on the application of this law, we will have thousands of labour disputes, which, by nature, will, according to Articles 19 and 20, be in the jurisdiction of district courts. Then we will have the increased costs of these disputes and trials because the people of Loznica will have to go to Shabac inevitably to resolve the work dispute, from Krubnja to Sabac, and from all other municipalities in the district court. That seems to me to ignore this necessary principle of economicity in the conduct of court proceedings. Then, in my opinion, the logical question arises whether the whole labour legislation had to be moved to the jurisdiction of district courts or could have remained in the jurisdiction of municipal courts. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: What does that have to do with it? It has to do, Mrs. Milka, and don't throw it to me and ask the president to give you a warning. Furthermore, let's say, the area of disputes in the residential area -- why would housing disputes be exclusively in the jurisdiction of district courts, if these apartments are located right in the areas of municipalities where we have municipal courts. Which is why municipal courts couldn't discuss housing cases. For me, it's a rational solution and there's no need for people to have to go to the district court headquarters in Sabac to settle some housing dispute. And finally, if I weren't to take time away from other fellow MPs, I would ask the promoter -- wasn't it more appropriate to keep the name of the economic court for the area of all economic disputes and matter that regulates the relationship of entities in the economy than to introduce a new name -- a trade court? For me, as a man who has worked for many years in the economy, the name of a trade court implies that only trade disputes are involved and that these disputes should be decided by that court in the manner laid down in the law, and that the mass of other disputes relating to business, registration in the court register, arbitration and so on is simply not subject to the jurisdiction of that trade court, if we only understand that as a symbolic name. So it seems to me that it is more appropriate and competent for the Court of Commerce to hold on to that name, to be an economic court as it has been before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13278	The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic, and then by MP Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13279	Dear People's MPs, discussing five legislative proposals that should be regulated on the basis of a new set-up of the judicial system in Serbia, we seem to have managed, despite the occasional strong polemic tones, to bring important views into line. All parliamentary groups, the Assembly in general, agreed on several very important issues. First, we agree that the situation in Serbian courts today, unfortunately, is not good. We agreed, then, that it was necessary to change. All parliamentary groups believe it is necessary to change the situation so that courts in Serbia, as well as in other civilized countries, gain the necessary degree of independence. So these legal proposals, which are formally submitted by the DSS, are not the legal proposals of only one party. These are the legal proposals of a society -- a Serbian society that seeks to be democratisation in the beginning of the new century. These are the laws of a state -- a Serbian state that seeks to transform itself from party to authentic rule of law. However, our country is no longer a party; it is - and it must be mentioned, a good part thanks to the merits of the SPS - now a multiparty state. But the multi-party state doesn't become an automatic and legal state. In order for one state to be legal, it must have a stable and according to certain rules established judicial system. How many of the laws offered by the DSS, or this Parliament, contribute to this objective? All these laws, and in particular the Law on Court Order, have exactly the tendency to show: that the future in Serbia - regardless of which layer, which nation, which religion, which the party belongs to - each of its citizens will be before the law equal to any other citizen. This simple rule of law: that, in the same circumstances, approximately the same sanctions are imposed, is an alphabet of justice and an independent judiciary. Unfortunately, it hasn't always been like that with us so far. With us, they say, the verdict could be bought; with us, a great, wealthy man was more equal to the court than the poor; with us a man who had strong social ties, whether family or other, wider social ties, could be before the court in a privileged position compared to one who had no such relationship. It's cancer-- the wound of our judiciary. This is what is called a corrupt judiciary, or corrupt justice. This is, of course, one logical absurdity: justice cannot be broken. If it's broken, it's not justice; and if it's justice, then it can't be broken by definition. However, such absurdities and illogical compounds could have survived. We really had a judiciary that was corrupt. The laws we are considering today are trying to introduce this simple principle: that every citizen before the law is equal and that the law applies to every citizen, and that in the state the government does not have this or that party, this or that structure - in the modern state and in modern society there is a law, and before the law everyone must always be equal. If they're not equal, then it's no longer justice. In the Law on Justice and Court Regulation, it was proposed that the Supreme Court, as the highest court instance, be freed from certain administrative disputes so that it could commit itself to this particular objective, so that it could strongly affirm the principle of unification and objectification of law. The law must be objective, and the Supreme Court must make sure that the law is applied in one way and the same way in Subotica and Vranja, both in Kladov and Užica. So far, they say, there was a great colour. The Supreme Court will take care of it from now on, and the entire other judicial system is aimed at ensuring that kind of objectiveization of the right. However, the law will not be objectified by judges applying laws mechanically, as robots in the future. That's what the Justice Act tells us. The Law on Judges is also an extremely important law so much that it seems to me - and that is not sufficiently highlighted in this discussion - to point out two new moments in the court's calling. He also underlines the country's obligation to pay for the professional training of judges after the entry into office. He prescribed the Supreme Court's obligation to develop a program of professional training of judges. The whole law also encourages judges to moral self-experience. The goal of professional training and moral self - training is for the judge to be what he used to be, to be a gentleman man, a decent man, a man who does not do any other work but his own, a man who enjoys his reputation in the middle, not only for his own knowledge but also for his high moral integrity. This law, as you have seen, provides for the principles of continuity of the judge's office, which is not a newspaper. Judges have been given a certain degree of immunity owned by MPs; and that immunity, as well as the continuity of functions, are actually in the service of profession. Now, when a man looks at what all judges are getting, he can ask himself: is these laws a social layer favors, is it privileged, is it separate from the whole society, and judges, or are those involved in judicial bodies getting higher rights than other citizens? It's not like that. These laws only restore the justice system's dignity. He's getting a chance to be a self-sustainable system. Self-sustainable is only the system that is able to produce from itself the personnel who can handle it and who is able to highlight high professional values and criteria, which then become a principle and ideal for all participants in the process. In other words, a healthy competition is now being introduced into Serbia's judicial system. The same principle will, of course, be introduced into all other systems in Serbia: the education system, the cultural system and the economic system. As we free the judiciary from political influence, in the same way we must free the ideological influence of the cultural and educational system and, in particular, we must kidnap the economic system from political oligarchy and make it self-sustainable. These are, therefore, laws and reforms that will follow and support this law. The real purpose of these laws will only be shown when society is fully democratisationd. Because in order for a society to be democratic, it must have an autonomous judicial system; but an autonomous judicial system can only exist in a democratic society. If the judicial system is autonomous and society as a whole is not democratic, then we have no democracy but enlightened absoluteism. I believe that our common goal, the goal of all the parties sitting here, is to achieve a very democratic society, a society in which only then will one law show its strength. These laws will also be exemplary for reforming all other essential systems. It clearly shows us that politics, political power, must withdraw from important social systems so that these systems can breathe freely, so that they can reproduce values from themselves, so that they can create from themselves a leadership chamber, rather than be under political tutorship, under which they are, unfortunately, still. And that's something we can agree on: we still don't have a built democratic system. We don't have democracy, we have partyocracy. We have not a single-party system, but a multi-party system, but between a multi-party system and authentic democracy, we need to build a whole series of society-organized institutions. So the multi-party system is a condition of democracy, but it is not enough guarantee that democracy will be realised. Dear People's MPs, we are today ahead of the adoption of laws that do not satisfy the political ambitions and political aspirations of one party, but meet the respective social needs of one society and one state. We heard from the SPS MPs that they too thought to propose a similar law; they made it, but for some objective reasons and subjective weaknesses did not adopt it, and it is a pity that they did not. I think they're looking forward to what their principles and their notion of the justice system today can be realized and I suppose they'll be happy to accept that we continue where they left off. They created a multiparty site, and now we're going to create a democratic society together. I believe, too, as far as I know the SRS programme, that this is in principle a completely acceptable law to them. The SRS is also for an independent and independent judiciary. That's why I was a little confused yesterday by the statement by the representatives of the parliamentary group, Mr. Vukic, that they would not in principle vote for this law. Maybe I didn't get it right, because I don't think a party that serious can not vote for its principles. He may not vote in favour of the methodology in which this principle is implemented, he may not vote in favour of "workers", or people who apply that methodology. Only the principle, I believe, is no less of your heart close to your social consciousness than it is to the DSS MPs. So, by adopting today, with the help of God, these laws we begin not only reforming the judiciary, but we give a strong impulse to build a democratic society, build a rule of law. What's important is these laws give us a strong impulse and our moral restoration. In these laws, many, in different ways, insist that judges must not only be independent and free, but also have a built sense of freedom and a sense of dignity. Finally, judges must protect the human dignity and rights of every citizen, and the human dignity and rights of every citizen can only protect one whose rights are not only guaranteed but who, therefore, the human dignity and the right of every citizen, feels as his being, as the contents of his cultural consciousness, as part of his moral attitude. Regardless of how anyone votes for this law for tactical reasons, I demonstrate once again that this is the law of the National Assembly of Serbia, that this is the law of a society and of a state, and that it will follow similar laws, and that we, however we encourage, will support those laws with satisfaction. By the way, the question has been raised why these laws are proposed by one party, not by the government. You know what, if all the democratic initiatives were in the hands of the government, we would get enlightened absoluteism. Democracy is that there are a lot of sources, a lot of initiatives, sources that are being poured into the common flow. All initiatives that are heading towards Serbia's democratisation and which seek to make Serbia a rule of law will no doubt receive DSS support, as I assume we will today receive support from all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13280	After the replica of Mr. Vucic, Dragan Tomic, and then the National MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the SRS programme writes and stands for our fundamental commitment to the independence of the judicial branch of power. We believe that in a system of power-sharing, full or almost complete, the independence of the judicial authority must be fully restricted or removed from any influence by the executive authority in relation to the judicial branch of the government. That's all true. It is also true that we believe that the public prosecutor's office is an independent state body, not a special independent state government, as some of them misread yesterday, whether by accident or on purpose, I don't know, but an independent state body does. What we're different about is the key things in these laws. Our programme also writes, above all, about the law on the regulation of courts, that we advocate that there are only courts of general jurisdiction, of course with different departments: criminal-law, civil-law, administrative-law, economic-law or trade-law. We believe that this would be the best solution for citizens and that citizens would thus ensure the best judicial protection of their rights, incomparably simpler than the proposed set of laws has been done. We also believe that even the proposed laws violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 73, which says the presidents of the courts, judges and public prosecutors are elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do we have the right to transfer most of those powers to someone else, even if it's real or "expert," the body? Can't we just break the Constitution like that? Remember that the High Council of Justice, under this proposal for a law, directly appoints judges as jurors and has the exclusive right to propose to the National Assembly of the Presidents of the Courts, judges and all other officers of the judicial functions, and we can only accept or refuse. Then again, they will present their candidate list, their candidates, and we can only accept or refuse. At the same time, the functions of the executive authority are greatly strengthened, its ingenuity strengthened. I'll tell you that on the basis of the public prosecutor's law, and I'll speak a little more in detail in my second 10-minute statement. So, according to the current law, the republican public prosecutor is solely responsible to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The bill now strengthens in an incredible way the powers and prerogatives of the authorities, the executive bodies of the authorities, or the competent minister of justice's affairs. That's the part that has to be prevented anyway. That's not a good solution. It's a much worse solution than it was before. (President: Time. ) As to the fact that SPS representatives are satisfied or not, it is none of our business. Yesterday, someone said that because of our rejection of such a bill (i.e. it was similar or almost the same, it doesn't matter) in the Serbian government, he couldn't go to the assembly in his time. They, if prepared in 1996, had a new democracy in the government, so they could do it in the Assembly. But it's true that we didn't want later, a year and a half later, that such a law would pass, precisely because we are against such a law, because our ideology is different, because our programme is different and because it is fundamentally different from the attitudes, in this case, both the SAA and the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13282	The word is Mr. Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13283	I thought MPs of the National Assembly should always be concerned about the interest of the people, the interest of Serbian citizens, the interest of the state of Serbia. Neither of us socialists, nor today, nor those who speak, mentioned any single political party, nor the reasons why the proposal was not in the process. We said, and we remain in that we had similar or the same bill in 1996 and 1997, but we could not, out of correctness to our coalition partners, then refer it to the congregation procedure and discuss it. I must say, since it is not clear enough for some fellow MPs that we, representatives of the SPS, have always taken care of the national interests for the past 10 years. We were in a coalition, and on a state, republican and local plan, with multiple parties. We've never put that party part forward compared to the general interest. At times, we have paid the price of our commitment, but we have remained consistent with that definition and are ready to discuss every issue, including this, and to adopt only those solutions that are in the interest of the state of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13284	The word has an offerer, Mr. Michaels.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13285	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's just try to clear up this matter of one proposal, another proposal. The following should be said: Minister of Government, then-SPS, Mr Markicevic, formed a team that worked in 1996 to prepare the law on the regulation of the judiciary. The team was composed of professional people who were now on the government team. There are Professor Ivosevic and Vesna Rakić, Professor Lazarevic, Professor Milkov, Professor Grubač. They were working on that team back then. They prepared a bill that passed through one government, in which there was then a New Democracy, along with the SPS. After the government changed, the law did not go through the new government, or the new government did not want to propose it to the Assembly. There was a small political controversy about it, until the law was put into effect because it was too liberal for that time, to insist on some coalition partners at the time, I don't know which. That's the whole truth about this bill. So, the most professional people, because perhaps then the minister of the SPS government had the ear to make a bill, so he called on people of different political definitions, definitely people who weren't in the SPS back then, to work on this bill. They made a good bill, why not say so, but the bill is too liberal for some members of the coalition at the time, removed from the agenda, put in a drawer and dusted on it, while the current government and the DSS decided not to work on judicial reform and give their solutions which, why not say nothing new, but solutions that are present in foreign practice and which apply there. Simply, that's how these solutions happened. I believe they'll confirm to the SPS colleagues that it's, like, the whole truth about their bill. (Tomislav Nikolic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13286	You don't have the right to a replica. At this point in the agenda, the parliamentary group represents Mr. Vukic The representative of the parliamentary group at this point in the agenda is Mr. Vukic. [[Tomislav Nikolic: The right to replica has a president or representative of the parliamentary group.]] You've defined who it will be. (Tomislav Nikolic: We do not define ourselves on the replica. The right to replica has a president or representative. ) Of course, you have also defined yourself to be Mr. Vukic within this item of the agenda. Otherwise, you're not mentioned. I just want to tell you that on this basis, the parliamentary group represents Mr. Vukic. Let's see what you wrote, and I'll answer you. [[Tomislav Nikolic: Yes, but not on the basis of the replica, but on the basis of the agenda.]] "I inform you that the representative of the SRS parliamentary group will discuss... to be the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic. "It solved the issue -- either the president or the representative. You've appointed a representative and that's the solution. What's the problem? (Tomislav Nikolic: Read Article 98, paragraph 2.) I'm reading to you the letter you wrote in that article. (Tomislav Nikolic: He refers to the debate on the proposal. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13287	Mr President, I have informed you in writing that the SRS parliamentary group in the debate on these drafts of the law will represent MP Aleksandar Vukic, but now, while the debate is taking place, we are coming into the situation that the parliamentary group, that the party is mentioned, that it is insulting expressions, that the right to replica is exercised by a completely second member of the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 98, and the right to replica is not even represented by the parliamentary group, but solely by the president of the parliamentary group. That's what you've changed, Mr. President, to the Rules of Procedure, in the last amendment to the Rules of Procedure. So far, the right to a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group has had someone else. He now has the sole president of the parliamentary group, as he has the exclusive right to object to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think that's quite clear. He writes in Article 98 paragraph 2: "The President of the Parliament Group has the right to reply". It doesn't matter what point is on the agenda. Now I'm wondering if you'd like to give me the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13288	In the meantime, I read, you're right, you're entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right now we really need to break this bill's fate. If the draft law was made in 1996 and it was done - the draft law (an notorious lie was made) did not pass the then government of the Republic of Serbia. In 1996 and 1997, when the SRS was in opposition, it was not a bill set before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There was no possibility of an SRS stopping him in the adoption procedure. There was a parliamentary majority made up of SRS and New Democracy MPs. If the bill was made up in 1996, what was he waiting for? All of 1996, 1997 and March 1998, so now someone says it was stopped by the Serbian Radical Party. We would have stopped him if he had come to the procedure, to the Serbian government, in front of the Serbian Radical Party ministers, because it was not judicial reform and because many of the provisions of the Constitution have been violated. I agree that you want to reform the judiciary, but change the Constitution first. You ask the Serbian Radical Party to ensure independence. Simply, the Assembly would elect judges of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court would elect all other judges. And there's your independence. And not like this -- you put in high advice, the National Assembly becomes the technical organ of another body, so it just declares the decisions that that body makes. And we certainly wouldn't have put the deputy attorney generals on probation with eight years of office, so we'll decide later whether he's good or not, and that's the man who's running the process; after all, in Western legislation -- in the name of the state, in the name of the people, that's the one who's representing the lawsuit. So, please, if you want to mention the SRS, say the name of the party so we can have the right to reply and use the facts. From the moment that bill was completed, yesterday was shown by an SPS MP, writing on it - a draft. You know what the bill is. It's some commission that got the money to do one law. She did a draft and just handed it over to either some public discussion or the government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal is something else entirely. The bill goes into assembly procedure. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had no law in the procedure ever. The government of the Republic of Serbia, where Serbian radicals were never in the process of the law, and could not have it, knew coalition partners that we would certainly not miss such a law in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13290	Before the next speaker starts saying that I should give one explanation, so that we know in the future how we work - I ask you to remind yourself of a member of the 38th in which it is clearly defined that a representative of the parliamentary group, and in certain points it is not the president of a parliamentary group or its deputy, assumes all the powers of the president of the parliamentary group, so I ask you to keep that in mind in mind in the course of the session. Please, the word is by MP Dragan Tomic, and then Božidar Vucurović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13291	Thank you. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, we have a set of laws in the area of justice. We've all witnessed in the last year that everyone has the right to say a lot about justice and judges even more. These days we have had the opportunity to hear probably the most interesting or funniest people in this country, which are ministers, whose deadlines are the shortest, because both directors and employees and everyone else lasts longer than any minister in any government or state, but with the right to pronounce sentences that they have no right at all. They fall within the domain of only us known political nonsensus, they say, "We will publicly publish a list of unspeakable judges." Who are these people who will establish the criteria of incompatibility? I guess those who were tried? Are they you? Or a third or a fourth or a fifth? Whoever says that has to say who he's going to be, or I guess he knows two to three thousand judges in Serbia, so he knows exactly who's right and who's wrong. You know, it's a lot about a single minister. When we talk about this bill, any law can be observed on both the positive and the negative side. As an opposition in the congregation, we often play a role in having a critical tone of every law. And here, too, there are a series of elements where you can give a critical reference to the proposal. There are always elements that can give certain improvements. We have, accordingly, said through amendments not to objections but a simple desire to integrate all of this into the elements of the bill and not only when it comes to prosecutorial function. I guess you can see that the pressure on the prosecutor's office in the last year has been extremely high. of officials, representatives of political parties, various associations, NGOs and, in recent times, one of the criteria that is installed here, and I really don't think it should be here, because all of them on the side, some society of judges, and some NGOs, so associations have the highest quality lawyers in Serbia. Not true, gentlemen, Serbia's finest lawyers are sitting in courts. They're doing their job fair and square. There is a rule in the law that states under which conditions a judge can no longer do that job, or he can't be a judge. That's why we advocate, above all, for the continuity of the judge, and especially for the continuity of the public prosecutor's office, which we qualify in a certain way by a more difficult function than the form of work they are dealing with. When I talk about perseverance, it brings out two new elements. It's absolute independence in running your job and your mission, and another criterion, which is certainly the expertise and quality of the man who was chosen for that job. There should be trust from the executive, and it's ugly at this point that we have a bill that the government didn't give to us, that we have a bill before us that the government didn't make a final statement, and she didn't say anything about the amendment part, and I guess this government has a problem with this assembly. The resolution minister has withdrawn two laws from the procedure these days. In some normal parliamentary democracies when that happens, at the very least, the minister is resigning, and in us, God forbid, when two MPs vote for the minister, he will think that the chair belongs to him. That level of dignity of the executive government seems to me, according to these proposals, to me, to the highest extent. We can argue here whether this is good, who's the promoter, whether someone, perhaps, has come up with something similar before (I'm talking about proposals from the period when the SPS had a proposal like this). The most likely truth about all this is that they couldn't get into the process because they weren't some new writers. The problem of the Socialist Party in the next period was that she trusted everyone. She's been in coalitions with everyone, and today we've come into a situation to see that our country, our nation, our people, we don't respect the Constitution and our laws. That is why we had the opportunity for the president of this country, who was elected by the people, to be handed over to The Hague Court, to all in Serbia who do not understand in the judiciary the way the court works and manages it. It doesn't look like what Western democracies have brought, but it has the character of an ordinary political court. In some times, everyone wants to say something, in a critical tone, it's times like that. Communism that has been in power for the last 50 years in this country, the judiciary has never been a part of the public. Not because it wasn't supposed to be, but it was, however, in a certain way, a regulated state and there was some kind of trust in the judges. These laws are good on the one hand, because they are trying to find a form where they will single out from these fast political changes in Serbia, change of political interests, change in the power of political parties and the need for all state institutions to express their views. They say their attitude in an ugly way. It's ugly to hear the government say that her judiciary is bad -- when it's said that the judiciary is corrupt, that all judges are bad, maltenes. Is it possible in one country, where we have educated the Faculty of Law, where we have educated lawyers, peers, prominent lawyers, who have written laws, and some are now very close to this authority, and representatives are in various parts of this government, so these lawyers have learned by what they have written (now in power), based on which they have become judges, now they say that they have not learned them well and that they are bad judges. That's just impossible. It's a total replacement of thesis. These laws will in a certain way ensure the continuity of the judicial function. We're not gonna play around anymore, we're not gonna put people in a position so they don't know what's gonna happen to them. When it comes to the public prosecutor's office, I must also say it's important, and we have said it in an amendment, to preserve the continuity. We don't think, when it comes to the high council of justice, it's the best solution for lawyers to decide which people to be judges, and in particular we don't think it's a good idea to be determined by some kind of prominent lawyers or experts. Who determines the criteria, an issuer or an expert, do the media, TV, radio, or some independent group, that will tell who is the lawyer or the prominent expert whom the state appoints? Did the people who were defending the Cypriots so highly these days ask them to amnesty, and with our people, nothing happened there, they continue to feast in prisons? Are those people? Are these the people who are already coming to a point that might be wrong? Therefore, I see the tenacity of the representatives of the Committee on the First Justice and Management to make certain amendments to skip this fact. I don't think that's a good thing, and that the Legislative Committee needs to reconsider the fact of the continuity of function. What does an eight-year-old mean? It doesn't mean anything. It means again that it is not a permanent function, and when someone enters the fifth or sixth years of their work, it comes to the situation that they will lose their jobs, because they may not like those people who are then in power. I want to say one more thing: people who are employed by tax administrations, courts, prosecutors, financial police, means in that state apparatus when they decide to stop doing that job, and when someone orders them not to do that job anymore, they come into a situation that no one will, because they've spent too much time working for the state. Is that how we want to get a generation of people into a situation so that tomorrow they can't work anywhere, that they can't support their family? We hear the minister these days when he says, "I made a deal with the bar when we get these people out of work so they can't be lawyers. "We won't let them be lawyers. As a result, the resignation shall be submitted at the very least. Then I ask, why didn't the government make its proposal here, why don't we talk about the government's proposal, why didn't the government say anything about the amendments we've made, not even about the bill? If the problem is who wrote this, it's not a problem at all. The problem is for all of us in the future to keep the judiciary, to be independent. Please, gentlemen, when you talk about justice or when some people talk about justice, I understand only a sentence relating to judges, that part of the court's function, because they all have an interest in having influence (that they can put someone in jail, because they're going to want to). It can't be a practice anymore. It must never be a practice. For these reasons, I think that these laws have a certain quality and that if we adopt them, we can do it later and further, but let's see how this practice works in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13292	There is a word from MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by MP Dusan Budishin. (Glasses - let the quorum be determined. ) Please determine the quorum. I realize we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a break until 12:00. [[after breaks]] Please first determine the quorum. I figure we got a quorum and he can keep working. In the words of the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13294	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if these legislative proposals were adopted in any country of parliamentary democracy, this would cause not only the resignation of the minister of justice, but the fall of the entire government. When the ministry, with all logistics, with funds from the budget, along with large teams of experts, fails to pass a single law to this assembly without withdrawing it from the procedure, it is quite a reason to at least justify the minister to resign. And when the creator of these legal proposals gives such a minister so much authority, then there's something wrong with the legislator, or maybe it's okay, but it was the price of political trade. You give me authority, I give you laws, I get you laws, you get us elections in Kosovo, or something like that. And you heard to whom ye gave such authority, that he who threatens the judges would drive them out into the street because they had judged according to the law. Maybe the law wasn't good, maybe it was restrictive, maybe it was even vengeful, but the judges had to judge by that law. They couldn't possibly have been judged by a manual on metal processing or by a gas cook. They had to judge exclusively by law. However, it is a man whose law is only a catcher for his personal interests, and that is why it goes so. We heard from the legislator that it is necessary to pass this set of laws because of the great crowd at the borders made by foreign investors, waiting for what Nasha Canak said to give us money. There are no foreign investors, no one will invest, not because of this set of laws, whether it is adopted or not, because you have not invested all the laws that you have passed so far gave a clause of restrictiveness and thus destroyed the basic legal postulate, postulate legal certainty. No one will invest in this country where the government has a monopoly on all profitable branches, maybe invest in Kladovo. They're not going to invest, because no one's smart enough to invest in a country where taxes are on the market and on services, and on a 20% profit. Why would they invest when it's in Cyprus, for example? 9%, with a grace period of five years and when only capital investments are not taxed. This is just pre-election marketing. These laws are designed for pre-election propaganda. We have received a report from the Committee, or we have received two reports from the Committee, we do not know which one is the real one, and we have received a report from the Government. The government says - we are against the adoption of this set of laws and the second opinion of the government has not been obtained so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13295	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13296	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, when several months ago, the question of which laws are the most impediments to be passed in this country, there were different answers, but very often it was heard that it was necessary to approach the work and legislation of this very matter as soon as possible. Why, it is not necessary to underline it again, it is quite prominent in the very proposal of these five laws, and there have been plenty of conversations and explanations by previous speakers. I'd just like to make a few views, and part of my own objections, based on what I've learned and found out in agreement with the practitioners, primarily the judges of the county courts. And they had an undivided opinion that these laws had to be approached, one working version circled for quite some time, and there were a lot of objections to it, just by the practitioners themselves. It seems that the farthest and most serious in these objections went from the judges of the District Court in Zrenjanin, who in a very documented and very serious way pointed to the lack of the first proposal, which seems to have been well overcome now. Let's take the turn - firstly, if it is a bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, there have been a lot of objections. As it turned out, I think it would be very bad, there were several courts highlighted as an example, where a citizen, in order for a first degree court to exercise the right to judicial protection, had to cross 200 and more kilometers in both directions. That, of course, is very bad and this legislative proposal, our DSS proposal, has been overcome. The municipal courts, as basic courts, are primarily there to provide protection to citizens directly and mainly in the first degree, not to tell citizens to travel far to such protection, so they do not present them with particularly unnecessary costs and do not make it difficult for them to protect them, on which they have the right to enter the Constitution at the very end of the line. That's why this solution is much better. I will point out only one example -- it was envisaged that the citizens of New Vienna, who were threatened by the abolition of the municipal court, so the first-degree court, were to travel to Kanjiz, with the competent court, which is exactly an eclectic example that in two directions they should cross more than 200 km, and that is what is very bad. Now, fortunately, it's not there. If this is about the draft law on the regulation of courts, I think the solution that has been given in these legal proposals, specifically in the draft of this law, is far better. True, there may be a possibility that the system of courts can be developed using foreign experience, but we do not currently have such opportunities, and in particular we do not seem to have a suitable number of judges to respond to these needs. That's why it was better to go to an existing organization, because in the end, as foreseen by these legal proposals, we only get two new courts. These are, therefore, the administrative court and the Court of Appeal, for which it has been very well noted and criticised that it should be unique, regardless of having four departments according to this legislative proposal, because this will result in uniform court practice and that is what is good. What we can still talk about, and there is one in that direction and the amendment, for me is a somewhat controversial - working legislation. According to this proposal, labour legislation is entrusted to the trial in the first degree of district courts. We've had a lot of work legislation in practice over the past few years, so to speak, equilibristics, because for a time this matter was judged by the courts of joint labor. That practice was very bad. This practice was bad and these joint work courts failed to achieve their purpose and were therefore abolished. But I guess this is where the importance of matter was going, which is why as a first degree court for the trial of these legal matters is determined by the district court. It would be good on the one hand because it's about rights, primarily labour rights, but there's another flaw, and that's the one I just pointed out, speaking of the territorial organisation of courts. It is, above all, a distance, because citizens will have to cross also great distances to achieve their labour rights. If the Labour Act is adopted and how it is adopted, this remark may not stand, because in any case, there will be fewer disputes like this. At that time, however, this finding may stand to be tried, that is, to judge district courts in the first degree, if these district courts were the way they were set out in this proposal. In that case, only cases would come quite significant before the district court, i.e. before the court in these working disputes, because at that time, labour disputes will, if I say, be passed, be reduced to very serious disputes which, however, will be rare. That leaves one question for me. I think we'll take care of it on committees, and by joining and considering the amendments, we'll sort it out. As far as the law on the High Council of Justice is concerned, it has already been said quite a bit, and that seems to me to be something that was missing from our justice system. That sounds nice when it's said that judges should choose the National Assembly as the highest authority of government, but it's also said, and in the light of this proposal, no one can argue, that it has one big flaw. It has a flaw so much that, despite all its seriousness to the high home, the congregation is not qualified enough to decide for itself such significant functions. Therefore, it seems that this solution is right and passed at the right time, and plus remains what this law underlines is that the High Council has five permanent and calling members of the judge and the public prosecutors who, of course, are changing, given the matter being discussed. This will certainly bring results in practice, and almost without a reservation, such a solution has been accepted by the judges of the practitioners, mostly the judges of the district courts that we have consulted. Finally, as far as the public prosecutor's bill is concerned, I would just remind myself of something that is most important to me, which is that the public prosecutors are independent state authorities, they will be, but in no case will be a special state government. However, they, as well as the courts in the end line, will remain under control, and are subordinated in the extreme line to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, but also to the National Assembly and the Minister of Justice. It's a much better solution than the previous one, and it fits into the concept of the other four laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13297	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13298	Allow me to say a few words at the beginning of my presentation on this set of law in the field of justice, first of all, about the conditions in which one of these sets of laws is considered. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the government who have been faithful and paid due attention to this very important set of laws and to begin by pointing out the absurdity of the time foreseen for the discussion and this is really very high. If such important laws were to be discussed, why have we adopted the debate and united the debate in principle, and subsequently extended the time for a debate by 100%. In my humble opinion and in the opinion of many people who follow the work of this Parliament and the work of the Government, DOS, of course, is not a priority in the time in which we live to deal with justice issues. However, as the case law has been evaluated very differently over the past 10 years, we can also talk about this, although the opinions of many agree that it is more important and more important to discuss at this point the fall of social production, the fall of standards and the fact that the people are barely putting an end to the end. However, in order not to deviate from the subject and risk the penalty, the similarity of these laws, this set of laws proposed by the SPS in 1996 and 1997 is obvious and should not be used up too much. What is more important is the fact that in practice, more specifically in public, two draft laws have appeared from the DOS itself, draft laws governing the area of justice - one DSS, based on the one created by the SPS and which was due to go into assembly procedure in 1997, but because of the known circumstances it is not. The second, who proposed the Republic Ministry and who went to a public debate in courts and who, by all its contents, represents a much worse version than what we are discussing today. Fortunately, the DSS managed to put in the assembly procedure their draft law, based on the SPS proposal, and we today do not have to discuss whether to abolish the district and municipal courts, whether to return to some solution that will be retrograde and that will deny the independence of the judge and which will represent a literal braking or annulment of judicial independence, but can we talk about a set of laws that is acceptable, of course, with some changes that we have tried to introduce through the amendments. I must point out that I was not surprised that one of my 12 amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Office Act was accepted. I must say, at the same time, I am a little concerned with the statements that I could hear on the Committee on Justice and the Legislative Committee by the representatives of the ministry, who did not commend themselves on the laws, and who announced that in the implementation of these solutions, therefore legal solutions, there would be a lot of problems. Of course, they didn't want to give an assessment until the official attitude was taken, but what I could sense was that Mr. Protic didn't have the most positive attitude on all of this. But that's another thing. To begin by respecting the fact that I won't have much time to talk without denying that possibility to my colleagues. The draft law on the regulation of courts is in principle good. In particular, I am in favour of the provisions of Article 4 which say that the judge determines by accident. So the judge is not determined in any other way. I can also agree with the introduction of appeals courts as a form of discharge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, but I really don't understand the need to deny it or to annul the good work of the courts in the previous time, to the extent that it was, renaming businesses in commercial courts. So if I go further through the law I can say that I agree with the provisions that regulate the reception of judicial trainees and that will enable the reception of quality people. Normally, with one notary fact, that if our economy doesn't work and it doesn't provide money it won't be possible to attract good people to the judiciary, to school, to health care, and that's much more important. Also, I have to say that one very strange mistake has been stolen around article 80, which is listed as the reference date of September 31st, 2002. The Law on Judges as one of the most important laws in this set can be considered to be a good basis for further work and, as I have already said, is a better variant than that of the law proposed by the Ministry, because it retains the continuity of judges, does not provide for a surplus of judges under some political criteria or according to the relationship between those judges in the earlier period according to some legal provisions. This law partially regulates the Supreme Court issue, introduces appeals courts, but does not foresee a review of the work of judges so far. Of course, I do not like the fact that this law reduces the possibility of parliament's influence on the choice of judges. Let's say, however, that the proposal and that variant are both partially acceptable. In the end, I have to say about this law that the amendments that we have submitted talk enough about and that in the amendments we will give more concrete objections. I think that you are able to contribute to a better work of the judiciary in perspective, but this is a new form of work and a form that needs to be confirmed as good in practice. The SPS considers that Article 4 in the position of 2 out of the two members of the public prosecutor's office, the minister responsible for the judiciary, and the other Republic Public Prosecutor, is not acceptable, and why the minister, as a member of the executive authority, should be given such jurisdiction, if it is one authority that needs to provide or ensure the independence of the judiciary. Also, the amendments we've tried to contribute to making this bill better. The public prosecutor's law is also very interesting. To the extent that we could have done it with 20 amendments, and an SPS expert team in the area of justice and justice tried to restore and repair this law. The only SPS amendment adopted is to Article 25, which says -- that the official of the Republic's public prosecutor is not appointed by the minister in charge of the judiciary, but rather by the high council of justice. At the end of my presentation, I have to state one notor fact, which is that, as in many areas of social life since the coming of DOS to power, a general confusion and general uncertainty have been reported, and in light of the upcoming elections that Mr. President of the Assembly announced for the first half of next year -- I have to point out that this is extremely necessary so that we do not have a situation to report parallel proposals from the ministry, the DSS and I don't know who else. So, in order to prevent uncertainty, in order to prevent further decline and the collapse of our country, it is necessary, and in this case, to call it, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13299	The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, and then Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13300	Ladies and gentlemen and distinguished citizens of Serbia, today is on the agenda of a set of laws from the judiciary, and a clear failure of the promoter. The judicial function is one of the most important social functions of the state and has a central place in every political system. In the first stages of state development, the judicial function was in the power of the executive-government authorities, but more and more self-determined as the activity of specific institutions, which today represent a comprehensive subsystem of the global political system and its function based on the principle of organisation and functioning. In order to make the functioning of the legal order as efficient as possible and to combat the tendency of red tape, by suppressing the activities and creative initiatives, the state also introduces significant divisions in the judicial branch of the government, by dividing it into five components, whose competences are strictly different. These are the courts that we share in regular and special, public prosecutors as a law enforcement body, as a prejudicial body of representation of state interests before courts, lawyers and judicial administration. Since there are disputes, conflicts and conflicts of interest in each society, whose entities are all individuals, social groups and institutions, the state must not give up the functions of the main arbitration officer. Without legal order, there's no state. Since the function of judicial arbitration is historically older than the state, the state must constantly prove that by taking over this function it has maintained its social meaning, improving it effectively. The state, through the assembly as a legislative body, determines their structure, jurisdiction, hierarchical ties, prescribes conditions for selecting judges and jurors to the point, regulates court proceedings. And the public prosecutor's office has a certain degree of independence, even though it carries out a criminal prosecution policy. The Serbian Radical Party is that it is necessary to pass a single law that forms the basis of judicial authorities. The current proposal by the Minister of Justice has taken over all jurisdiction in judicial functions, along with the legal advice that you wish to set, which is unacceptable because this is why the state loses any authority to judicial authorities, and mixing the minister of justice is in fact a policy, i.e. the politics of your DOS. The Serbian Radical Party will not support changes and proposals in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13301	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13302	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed set of laws by the DSS, which we are considering today, raises several questions. The first question is the government's responsibility, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and local self-government or, in particular, the Minister of Justice himself. It has been 10 months since the constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we still haven't received a draft law on the area of justice from the Ministry of Justice. After the only law that came from the ministry, it is the law on the amnesty of Cypriot prisoners in Serbian prisons, we received nothing more from the ministry. We are here today to discuss a proposal submitted by one of the MPs. If there is a responsibility, then it is logical for the minister of justice to resign at the very least, and the government itself could. The second question is why there is no justice minister here, when a set of laws is being discussed that want to be fully regulated in the area of justice. The minister of justice did not favour this assembly to at least attend this session and to help some of their suggestions to improve the proposed laws. The minister of justice is busy, these days he visits Serbia along and across, visits Serbia's courts, asking the president of judges' court lists who have tried according to previous laws, who have tried according to the Public Information Act and who have participated in any way during the previous period. The second question, which is raised by this set of laws, is the issue of political trade. For the sake of our public, we need to know that last week we started discussing these laws, so the debate was terminated. Seven days were traded between the DOS coalition partners, so that today, when the trade was obviously successfully completed, we would continue to debate. In fact, seven days ago, we had a situation that the parent board rejected these proposals, the government also, and today we have a situation that the parent board accepts these proposals. All I care about is who's gonna pay the price for this political trade that happened the last seven days? The third thing is the essence of the laws themselves. Namely, the proposer here said in his opening statement that these are reform laws, that these laws are hit by the foundations of an independent and fair judiciary, a judiciary that will be independent and material, and independent of politics. If these laws are read in detail, it turns out that there is nothing of this reform, and even less of an independent. In fact, I'm only going to point out two things, because time doesn't allow me, which is important here, two things that indicate that this political independence has nothing, that nothing of quality has changed. First, the judges, the presidents of the courts and the public prosecutors continue to elect and resolve the National Assembly, which was also in the previous law. So it's nothing new. This means that whoever has a majority in this congregation will have a significant impact, as so far, on personal solutions in our courts. The other thing is the provisions on the jury judge, which indicate that in this case we have nothing new, that we have again a great influence of politics on the choice of jury judges. The solution offered here is that the minister of justice proposes to the high council of the jury's judiciary, which means that we have a direct and major influence of the minister of justice, or politics, on this area again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13303	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13304	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is indeed an unusually important set of laws in the area of the judiciary of systemic character. In spite of the fact that this proposal has occurred, I think it is most important for all of us MPs to talk about the quality of the proposal that is ahead of us. Certainly, it would be better for the state to have the government of the Republic of Serbia behind such important laws, because it is an excellent role and a task than any parliamentary group. But I give primate, first of all, to what is the content of the proposed solutions. As for that, I think the proposed solutions are broadly consistent with the constitutional position that the judiciary has in the constitutional concept built in 1990. I think these laws well affirm the basic principles of the Constitution, above all the principles of judicial independence and the continuity of judicial function. For this reason, I am particularly concerned with the final provisions of these laws - the law on the regulation of courts, the law on judges and the law on public prosecutors - which provides for the continuity and continuity of elected judges, or public prosecutors, with laws so far in place. It is also important that courts, educated under the 1991 Law on Courts, continue their work as educated. This is very important to adopt, because in this way it puts an end to one controversy which seems to me to have artificially begun to be created, from irresponsible statements by responsible people, who wanted to be manipulated by fear of the holders of judicial functions, stories of re-election of all holders of judicial functions by the end of the year, etc. Be assured that these stories and statements also had consequences for the situation in the judiciary. It is good that the transitional solutions to these laws remove this dilemma, which seems to me to be artificially imposed by individuals. As far as the affirmation of this principle of independence is concerned, it has been woven through several members of these laws. I'd just quote some. It is beautifully written in Article 5 of the Law on Regulating Courts "that the use of the public position, the means of public notification and any public dispensation affecting the course and outcome of the proceedings is prohibited, and that any other influence in the court is prohibited. "This is written as a ban, but we are witnessing that exactly the time in which we live to this extent is burdensome to the performances of public figures, which exert one influence on the court and on the judiciary that is not allowed, just that these norms are not in the law. It is not permitted for the vice president of the Republic Government to express a surprise as to why a person has not yet been punished or has not been subject to a surgical or other procedure against him. These are things that can't be passed without conviction in a civilized rule of law. I hope this norm will affect the behavior of people who think they can. It is also a little undetected, but very well, at the end of the law on the regulation of courts, the norm of Article 74, which gives the authority's authority to ask the MUP to provide special protection to judges, judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutor, judges for violations and their families or property. It may be better that this norm has been introduced as an obligation by the Ministry of the Interior to provide protection at the request of an elder of the judicial authority, rather than as an elder's right to request, but I believe that in practice in the implementation of this standard, if adopted, the MUP will act as such, because there is no doubt that a large number of probational convictions that have been issued in criminal proceedings, and statistics say that so, certainly, conditioned by fear of the holders of judicial functions against the revenge of perpetrators of criminal acts. That it is necessary to provide, indeed, physical protection for people who are pushing their honor, their cheeks, the knowledge to implement the law and the Constitution of this country - should, and therefore I think that this solution is good and that it requires a special organization, first of all the Government, in the realisation of these principles. It's also good, no less important and not ultimately, material independence. Article 4 The law on judges suggests that the judge has the right to pay the salary necessary to maintain his independence and the safety of his family. It is clear that without material independence, judicial functions have no essential independence either. However, some other provisions of the same law questioned this principle, since some other provisions are the most valued functions in the judiciary, the post of Supreme Court President, related to the post of Prime Minister. Salary in the government and everything in the government is politics. And the height of the salary in the government is a policy in the narrow sense of words and I can freely say that it is a category that can also be called a demagogue, because it is unserious to come out in public voice these days that the salary of the Prime Minister is 10,000 dinars, and if that is how that fact will affect all holders of judicial functions, if the pandan should be the demagogue that this or any other government has to do in the area of wages in the state administration. For this reason, I think that the system of rewarding and the system of wages in the judiciary is necessary to arrange otherwise for judges, prosecutors and staff(employees, meaning) to be independent of the government's policy in the field of award. As for the organisation of the judiciary here, we have nothing against these solutions. The highest position of the Supreme Court, which is a constitutional obligation, is maintained, as the promoter respected. We believe that the introduction of the Court of Appeal and the Administrative Court is a contribution to the discharge of the Supreme Court, that it will return it to what it is priority to do, which is that in the second degree it makes the right decisions, because practice has shown that there have also been decisions in this area that have injured the rights and equality of citizens. On the other hand, to allow the Supreme Court more time to deal with the uniformity of judicial practice, although our case law is not a source of law; unequal judicial practice and how equality of citizens can be insulted. I remember a memo a few years ago, I don't know, it's about an insurance organization that complained about damages to traffic accidents according to the practice that courts apply for serious physical injury, e.g. Breaking hands, in Belgrade compared to the province, is like 10 to one. This really calls into question the equality of citizens and their right to judicial protection. As far as our remarks are concerned, which we believe if they adopt so many laws will be better, I would divide them into several groups. The first one is related to the structure of the High Justice Council. Our objection was to the fact that there was no need for the minister of justice, who is a member of the High Council for Justice, to have the right to elect a public prosecutor, besides a republican public prosecutor, and I believe that in the talks that have been conducted on the Justice Committee, such an objection has been accepted. We also feel that it is incompatible with the spirit of the law that the Ministry of Justice plays in these laws, or that it is overly stressed. I must tell you that we have tried to replace it with one series of amendments everywhere where the Ministry of Justice or the Minister of Justice appeared, meaning as a representative of the executive authority, whether it's a large personal council of justice or some other body, but in this way we express our relationship that it is contrary to the spirit of the proposed solution, a large number of provisions that entitle the right of the Ministry of Justice. We also believe that another norm is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia (referring to Article 66(2)). The proposal for a law on judges, which says in the first position that a hearing with the judge ends a working relationship, and in the second position, which is disputed for us, that he cannot apply for the choice of a judge or a public prosecutor or an application for appointment as a deputy public prosecutor or a judge for violations. It directly affects the right and freedom of every man to work, to work, to work. You cannot limit anyone to at least compete or report to an ad, and the fact that they are resolved will certainly be taken into account by the promoter as a serious fact, and will likely decide not to be proposed to the National Assembly for the election. To make one parallel: the person who committed the crime, and even a serious crime, has been convicted and endured the sentence of the law, provides the possibility that the sentence should be deleted from the court record over time and that no one, no single body, can be called upon to his criminal past. So it seems to me that this is a bit of a rigid attitude towards judges who are resolved without need. The third group of objections refers to the position that judges jurors have under the draft law. He was also discussed by colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, and I agree with those remarks. First of all, the position of the jury judges has been established by the procedural laws, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Prosecution and their vote in the judicial council is an equal vote to the judge. So, there's no reason for their election procedure to be seen as their degradation, for judges to be elected by the National Assembly, and for judges to be jurors, with a position like this, which is now, by the procedural laws, these valid ones, is chosen by the High Council of Justice, on a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Especially this - on the proposal of the Minister of Justice - we consider it absolutely unacceptable and here we have given a few amendments, related to equalising this position. The last remark, and perhaps the biggest one, I'd like to conclude, is about the deputy public prosecutors. The Proposer is in Article 7. The Law on Public Prosecutor's Offices said that the public prosecutor's office are -- public prosecutor, deputy public prosecutor and staff. What's the status of all three categories? The D.A.'s office is permanent until retirement. Staff - The Law says - the Labour Relations Act is applied in state bodies, meaning a basic working relationship for a certain period of time until retirement. Only the deputy public prosecutor, who de facto carries the job (the public prosecutor is responsible, but the deputy attorneys of the public prosecutor carry the job in public prosecutors), go to check every eight years. It is neither principled nor constitutional to us, because the Constitution says that the public prosecutor's office is also permanent. If the promoter shows good will to accept these remarks, primarily related to the status of deputy public prosecutors, I am sure that the SPS parliamentary group will support this package of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13305	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, followed by the MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us draft laws from the field of justice, five laws proposed by MP Dejan Michael. So, Dejan Mihajlov is proposing these laws against which the SRS will vote, in which nothing good can be found, that our judicial system, as one of the basic pillars of the state government, in every country, would be independent. That's what I'm saying to remove any dilemma about who is the legislator of these laws, not the Democratic Party of Serbia, which is probably behind these draft laws, but Dejan Mihajlov, and in that sense both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Committees of the National Assembly have declared themselves. What we have ahead of us is a package of mutually non-compliant laws and laws that will not lead to our judiciary being impartial, independent, highly professional, so that judges can judge by the Constitution and the law, but the strict control of those who are today in our country over the judicial system will be even greater. And as the proposer once said, whether here or in one of the TV shows, they want to break down the existing judicial system through this proposal and that is something that will make it very difficult for Serbian citizens to seek judicial protection to exercise their right. Because the question arises how will an ordinary citizen know what the court is, in a bunch of specialised courts that are proposing to us, where he will be able to seek his own judicial protection. After all, there are also specialised courts besides the regular ones, and what Dejan Mihajlov offers us as a proposing, it is outlined in the new project of the Constitution of Dr. Zorica Radovic, where it unequivocally points to the necessity of such courts, which is opposed to the programme and our definitions that we highlight. We've been really in favour of an independent judiciary for 12 years, when we're talking about even having to abolish existing economic courts and federal level, as well as a military court, and all we need to do is leave two-degree courts and, in exceptional cases, in the most serious crimes, three-degree courts. The motion cannot convince us, through a project of the existence of a high council of justice, that it, allegedly expertly and independently of the executive and legislative authority, will be a newly formed body, to propose a highly professional court office, when it is borne in mind that the justice minister, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, etc., and we know well that they have been chosen by the majority and the will of the majority DOS group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13307	We still have about an hour left to work, and the SRS has 31 minutes left. There is the word of the People's Messenger Đura Lazic, let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13308	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is before us a package of laws that regulates a very important area, the area of justice, because the judiciary in our people has always been valid for a significant state institution. Because when people are going to argue about something and they can't come up with a final solution, they say they're going to settle it in court. It is no accident that the authorities of the judiciary are called the palace of justice. That's where justice comes in, and justice is shared. However, there have been cases in the practice of the judiciary, especially in the last year, that some decisions in the courts may cross this institution into the palace of injustice. In a package of proposed laws, the Proposer sought to regulate relations in these significant bodies of our country and particularly insists on the independence and independence of judicial authorities. As one of the main preconditions for this goal is the continuity of the judicial functions, I think that principle extends through the entire package of these laws and that it is an important segment and a prerequisite for achieving this principle. In these proposed laws, there are many alludations and the need for an independent judiciary is highlighted. But there's been a lot of talk about independent justice over the last year, and I think that some cases really made the judiciary really independent, because it didn't really depend on people in the judiciary. When I say this, first of all, I mean some cases, and especially the kidnapping case of former SRJ president, who was in prison and no one was able to get him out of jail without the approval of an investigative judge and hand him over to The Hague tribunal. It happened the other way around, that the executive power had an impact, and beyond all legal norms, it did what it did. I believe that the adoption of this package of laws will really lead to the introduction of independence in the judiciary, the prevention of party and party influence on judicial authorities, because that is the only way we can ensure quality in the work of judicial authorities. It is good that one way of proposing candidates for judges is possible, for legal holders based on efficiency, morality and expertise. I think it's the only way to choose and reach the right candidates for legal holders. However, like some colleagues before me, I have an objection to how to choose jury judges. If the members of the permanent jury and the judges are the same, that they have the same treatment, the same meaning that their decisions are equally valid in one council, then I don't think it's right to choose in two different ways permanent members of the grand jury. I would suggest that judges of the jury, as members of the council, be elected by the Assembly, not by the high council of the judiciary. As for how the President of the Court is resolved, this is proposed in Article 70. The proposal for a law on judges - I think the way the President of the Courts is resolved in this proposal is indeed summed up and to specify the reasons why the President of the Court can be resolved. I believe that the adoption of this law, or adoption of this article, will avoid the possibility of repeating the mistakes that occurred in the past months when the large number of court presidents were resolved, and the county and municipal, without any justification for their responsibility or the need for their resolution. Also, I would disagree with the proposal in Article 71. The draft law on the public prosecutor's office, which gives great authority to the minister of justice when it comes to the launch and conduct of a procedure that determines the need for a public prosecutor's discharge. I think that this position, or the third position of this member, should be deleted because, by adopting this position, Article 71, it would again give great authority to the executive, to interfere with the judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13309	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13310	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by proposing and passing a set of these laws in the judiciary, there is a delicate situation, so I'm afraid that our judicial system will be hit by one of the greatest natural disasters. When you look at the way and the circumstances under which these laws are proposed and passed, you will see that the most judiciary has been thrown into the political arena of 18 political parties. The main issue at this point is that -- which will be subject to control of the law, which implies both aspects of it, primarily legal and judicial. In view of the way and who proposes these laws, and since 18 political parties so far, there is one party, and among the parties there is no style, no unity, for the adoption of a single law. It means that this will be political, not system law, and our parliament will have a ceremonial function, to adopt these laws on behalf of and on a proposal from one party, without participation, in proposing, many of the entities relevant to its adoption. As it is known, the government here did not give the green light and did not agree. It rejected these proposals and did not confirm, and in addition, no relevant factors and entities of our legal system participated in the preparation of these proposals. First of all, the judges of municipal courts, district courts, the Supreme Court, the Court of Commerce, the Constitutional Court, the professors of the Faculty of Law, and she did not participate, which is absolutely the case in all other countries. I especially want to point out that the judge must have the strength to end the injustice. Judges are servants, not masters of men, but that they are not servants of any state authority, not government itself, or parliament whose orders should not be fulfilled, but that they judge by the Constitution, the law and their conscience. I would especially like to point out that it is a real and too serious thing to be left to political parties, so that in this way they can pass laws within the legal system and that the legal system and laws serve for political purposes. So if these laws are passed, we'll get one castrated judiciary, or one castrated justice system. In relation to the law on the regulation of courts, the ban on influence on a court has no sanctions, what does it mean to you if someone chats every day and works on the means of public information and directly affects the work of the judicial authorities - no sanctions, what will be done if someone does so? It is said in the bill that the Supreme Court is the highest court in the Republic of Serbia. Then what is the Constitutional Court, which settles legal disputes and solves legal matters of courts? The court days -- they need to break practice with court days, because the court days, in my opinion, are at the moment when hundreds and hundreds of thousands of pending cases are to be solved, and many of the funds go to court days, such as Zlatibor, Vranjačka Banja, Kopalnik, Tara and other places. I think this should be interrupted and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of working days spent needlessly. A court holiday -- scheduled to last from July 15th to August 31st. What's a court break for? Each judge has an annual vacation, as well as all other state authorities and employees, given that Serbia has about 3,000 judges and 15 days multiplys by 3,000, you get 45,000 lost working days and during that time the judges were able to work, solve thousands and thousands of cases, for which citizens wait even up to 30 years. Compared to the I.D., there's a lot of things that aren't appropriate here, Malten, this is one criminal record file, which should be run by the Department of Justice, and in fact it should be conducted by the court in question. What will a number of data, relating exclusively to personal matters, to kinship, to a mate, etc.? I think it's too high and unnecessary. Compared to the choice of judges, I believe the number of judges should be reduced, as Serbia has about 3,000 judges, and England, which is seven times larger than Serbia, has 1,629 judges and has 696 baristas. Therefore, we have a massive judiciary and should reduce it. In relation to the executive procedure, Article 17 is contrary to Article 263. It is not clear how the proposer could have bypassed the Implementing Procedure Act, where it is predicted that the public prosecutor does not have the right to file for suspension and to postpone execution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13311	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13312	Dear fellow MPs, proposed by a set of laws, which, unfortunately for us, has not been done by the government, but by the DSS, is trying to resolve this very important segment of legislation and legislation that will regulate this matter. Everything would be good if there were no excessive powers given by this law and I think if it had changed the amendment, as proposed by the SAA, and these amendments were adopted, much of these proposed laws could be adopted. When I say this, I mean, first of all, public prosecutors' deputies, where they're supposed to be elected for eight years, or eight years. Our proposal would be for them to be elected as prosecutors themselves, because they are exactly the same both in the obligations and in the rights they have, means that they are chosen by the Assembly by the same procedure as the prosecutors themselves, without being considered assistant prosecutors. Also, to be elected indefinitely, i.e. to have the sustainability of performing that function, means as well as prosecutors, until retirement. The other thing, too many powers have been given here by the Minister of Justice. I think one of the great powers that I'm going to point out is that the minister of justice, in addition to all his powers, has the right to appoint the perpetrator of the duties of the republic's public prosecutor. I think that this authority should be transferred to another authority, to the Supreme Court, or the High Council of Justice, or to the Assembly itself, to bridge this vacuum that we now have in the exercise of our duties as public prosecutor. Furthermore, there is also a proposal for a pay relationship. Salaries are tied to the Prime Minister, so the Supreme Court president should have the same salary as the Prime Minister. I would like to remind you that we have adopted the Law here on the salaries of elected and public officials in this assembly, that even then we have led the controversy and proposed similar solutions, which were then rejected in this assembly. If this is taken and what my colleague, MP Zoran Nikolic, noted, is that the salary of the Prime Minister, at least as "News" has been announced, and in the press release of our assembly, it is seen that the Prime Minister has a salary of 10,810 dinars, without past work, I think that this demagogy, if applied to the Supreme Court and the material position of the judges themselves, is seen as the highest in the hierarchy of the Supreme Court, is indeed not going to improve the material position, if it is transferred to the last perpetrator, in the judicial bodies. That way, I don't think it's going to be good, and it's not going to regulate what needs to be provided -- material independence, hence, and essentially the independence of judges. If they depend on what this salary provides them, I think that, in addition to everything that's been going on lately with the problems of the executive authority and the influence of the judicial authorities, the judiciary will not be independent, nor will it depend on it. And when we talk about judicial authorities, here are often the flat-rate qualifications that the entire judiciary and all the judicial authorities aren't good, that they don't perform functions, that they work under pressure, that they do what the policy wants them to do. That's what's been going on lately, but with one part of the judicial authorities. I've been listing it here for days, and it's already been said several times, I think that in the judiciary there is a huge number of honest and honest people, and we can't in this way generally give assessments of the total judiciary, how a habit is created here to express such flat-rate qualifications. We know that, in addition to doing the wrongs that are being tried and for which some have committed crimes and are being prosecuted, there are many other cases in court, such as lawsuits, such as investigations, such as other affairs that are being done at different levels of justice. Therefore, that assessment cannot stand and I don't think anyone has the right to make such a flat-rate statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13313	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić and after him Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13314	Gentlemen, the very fact that there are two packages of the draft law on the judiciary speaks of the seriousness of these proposals proposed, one of the DOS factions. In fact, there can be an impression from all of this that there is one battle and rivalry that will be the author of new reform laws and for these reasons, given that in this case we have two proposals, it says that it is all being beaten over citizens, first of all, and this time through justice. These five laws, proposed to the National Assembly, tell us that the judiciary is moving away from the citizens, that the judiciary will be impeccable and that there is nothing from the independence of the judiciary. I can support this with the fact that moving away from citizens is the creation of new judicial institutes. It's primarily an appeal court, and at the same time solving the first degree in county courts. Thus, citizens will also be prevented from solving their issues in the judiciary, i.e. in courts in good time and from having significant material costs. Secondly, what's very obvious here is that by establishing a high-level council for the judiciary, it was actually given again to the authority of the executive to shape fate, not only for the judges and prosecutors, but also for the citizens. In this way, in fact, it is the claim that the unseriousness of such proposals, such laws stem from the intention of just picking up cheap political points, and that in fact they are not fundamentally passed laws that you would, as you swear, be in the interest of the citizens. The appointment of prosecutors and jurors by Vladan Batic is in favour of everything I've said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13315	The word is by MP Vladimir Garčević, followed by Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13316	I must first address the President and ask him that what happened in the previous working period of the Assembly does not serve the honor and that I suggest that until we prepare the materials and agree that the Assembly does not work and that this amount of money is not spent. What was previously disputed about the opposition blocking the work, we came to the conclusion that it was not really prepared and I ask you that the Assembly does not ambush the future until it is agreed and prepared for us to work. That's one suggestion. Secondly, I would ask you to influence as a government, as an MP, and you hold the authority, that certain ministers do not present any inaccuracies, and I will say about last night that Gašo Knezevic said he had sent a law on the university, that he had done everything, and he was gone. Give accurate information from here on what came into the assembly procedure, when it came and indeed, we must always respond to the untruths of the Serbian government. As far as these laws are concerned, I'd like to ask the Justice Committee if it's possible for him to ambush twice, make a decision once not to accept something, and after the ambush and again at the same point. Let the lawyers think until they make certain decisions, for me it's mildly unserious. I don't think it's an honor to be in charge of the board, and it's in law school. As far as the law goes, I don't care who proposes the laws. What matters most is whether these laws go to meet those citizens or for the jobs that are being passed, but I am concerned and I have the impression that this part of the law is to agree with the Democratic Party in such a way that it will go to the heart of the labour law, and there is a compromise sought and I warn the union that it can have adverse consequences for workers who are at all employed. As for the election of assistant public prosecutors, our predecessors have said so, and I want to point out that the justice ministers need to be removed, and the parliamentary majority must stop the hajka and his departure to the courts, selecting lists. I hope this law allows something, but not until the end, and I hope that the amendments will remove the possibility that the executive authority will command what is not its jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13317	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13318	Dear fellow Members of the People, this set of laws on the regulation of the judiciary, I would only like to comment on two points. One, to warn the DSS that Mr Batic is no longer their member and that he is not given this much authority. The second, however, that the set of laws is restrictive because it will greatly damage Serbian citizens. How will it damage? I understand why you're moving the factory workers away, because you need to secure the factory so you can sell it as easily as possible. Why are you forcing citizens not to use the services of the court, and the court has only that capacity to protect the interests of citizens, i.e. legal and physical persons? However, with this set of laws, you are making it impossible for citizens to find the court simply inaccessible, both through this bill and through the tax tax bill. Since time is limited and I only have two minutes to talk about these five laws, and the laws are very bad and we're going to vote against these laws, I'd like to remind the DSS once more. suggests that 4-5 years ago she boycotted Serbia's elections, as they were not democratic conditions in Serbia. But I expect, if not tonight, then tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, that their party president will invite Serbs to attend the elections scheduled for November 17th. I warn him that democracy is not in Serbia just because he is the president of Yugoslavia and I warn him that Serbs have no conditions to go to elections and that would be a devastating policy... (President: Please stick to the topic. )......................................................................................................... for Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13319	The People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13320	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the light mask of the second session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a set of five laws, which should be fully governed by Serbia's first judicial system and judiciary. After yesterday's event and trade, all the masks fell and the project's promoter showed and realized what he indicated by leaving the government and the government, which is opposition action in position. Secondly, taught by the experience of the extraordinary session on the appointment of first-judge holders, when significant DSS proposals have not passed, the proposed agenda of this session has created ultimate conditions for trade with the main government's proposal, and this is the labour law. The dark mask certainly deserves the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and Local Self-Government, due to an unmoved explanation of the proposal to reject these laws, to create delusions in judicial authorities, between judges and units of local self-government, some kind of working version of the law by which all judges with December 31st would be resolved, some courts, mainly in small areas, and where they are in the hands of the Socialists. In my district, I note that this was the case with the municipality of Krupanj, which has already been mentioned, and the municipality of Osecina, where the petition by the board club of the joint opposition of Osijek and the parliamentary club of the SPS came to be held, i.e. that the municipal court in Odečina remains. Both government proposals, criminal proceedings and court fees, have been withdrawn from this session, which speaks of their serious approach to justice. The justice minister's attitude towards the judiciary confirms his lack of a National Assembly meeting when discussing the most important issues, the regulation of justice in Serbia. Maybe he's strictly sticking to Article 2. The law governing courts, where it is prescribed that the judicial authority is independent of the legislative and executive authority. He may have completed his work in September through the appointment of judicial officials prior to the adoption of these regulations. My opinion is that the adoption of these laws creates solid preconditions for an independent and responsible judiciary, and such preconditions and realizations will in practice depend solely on the executive authority and the material position of employees. The equality of all citizens in front of the court gives legal certainty, which cannot be said in the assessment of the functioning of the government over the past year. The good and positive values of these laws, the political independent and responsible judiciary, the continuity and the immutability of judges, the retention of the existing territorial organisation of most courts with current practice, are a good basis for legal and economic security of citizens. It bothers me that we all consider the situation in the judiciary very difficult, and no one has offered the right information. It is not good to place all judges in the same basket, although most of them are independent, responsible, professional and safe in their work. In the end, regardless of modern laws, and the flat-rate assessment of the judiciary will not contribute to improving the situation. The SPS MPs will support the principle of this law, because they are close to the party's pawning, as well as the earlier proposal for similar solutions, and depending on the cosmetic changes and acceptance of amendments will also depend on the vote of the law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13321	Messenger Lazar Marjanski is not here. Just something to let you know, since it's 13.40 hours, we've got 30 minutes. the overall debate of parliamentary groups and the right to the final word of Parliament Groups and Proposers, so I suggest we work without a break. So, about 14.30 hours, at the latest, we're going to get to the point of deciding on the law in principle, so I suggest and remind the presidents of the parliamentary groups that they have this in mind when it comes to the presence of MPs in the hall, that we go in that order, and then we will decide whether to continue to consider the law in particular, given that we do not have the government's opinion on these amendments that the Committee has sent to the National Assembly and Government. The Prime Minister's office, as far as I know, is scheduled for tomorrow at 12 o'clock, so we practically couldn't if you agreed that we couldn't work and decide without the government's opinion, we couldn't continue work until Monday. Please keep that in mind, since usually around 14 hours starts with a break. The word is by Mr Milorad Mircic, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13322	The debate on these agenda points stemmed from the fact that a political agreement was reached between the parties within the DOS and the obvious course of the debate shows that not only did the parties participate within DOS but also individual parties from the opposition, all those other than the SRS, even those who say they will be restrained, but they will constitute a quorum, so there is a clear point. As for the need to pass such legal proposals in the area of justice, it clearly exists, but one thought is imposed, when these draft laws by DOS or more specifically said by the DSS before the government, the government rejected them, even with the reasons of the restoring ministry, the Ministry of Justice, that the government has draft laws in the field of justice that are better and more adequate as a solution than these proposed laws. What's going on? There is something that can't be called the will of the majority in parliament, but something that, thanks to online electoral or post-election combinations, has made it possible for the DSS to put these points on the agenda, which is that they have a man who holds the presidency in this assembly, to deafen himself, using his discretionary right, to deafen the government's opinion, and neither the proposing nor the chairman should raise the issue of whether, in parallel with the adoption and discussion of these laws, an initiative should be launched on the confidence of the Serbian government. If the Serbian government, with its view that this law is not good and that they have a better bill, and in particular the resolute ministry is so declared, then in all parliamentary democratic societies, by automation, the government, if nothing else, puts its trust in the assembly and the Assembly declares itself. If the government doesn't do it, and in this case it's conditionally impossible to expect, then at least a resolute minister. It comes to the conclusion that these are some intra-coalization games and combinations, which come down to the fact that this is the easiest way to replace or launch an initiative to replace a resorient minister. As far as the laws themselves are concerned, it is obvious that they are a continuation or one trace of the things that are envisaged and written in the proposal for a new constitution by Zorica Radovic, and these are the appeals courts that are now scheduled to be four, and later it will be most likely and I am almost sure 6, because that is how Serbia is going to dissipate, and so the indictees from the Supreme Court will be transferred to the Court of Appeals, so every province, every republic, in fact, will have its Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13323	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13324	Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, I think there are solutions in the proposed laws that promise and be the hope of better functioning of the judiciary. It is about the system laws on the area of justice, which are in line with that constitutional position that the judiciary has under the existing Constitution. These laws protect the independence of the judicial authority from legislative and executive, protect independence, independence and the continuity of judicial and public prosecutorial functions, and reduce the possibility of excessive or open influence of the parliamentary and thus the party, in the choice of judges, by transferring the election proposal from the Serbian Parliament's board to high judicial council, with judges and presidents of the courts elected in the same way. Such solutions to us, the Socialists, were not unknown and foreign, given that similar or similar ones were present in the proposals that we made in 1997, which my fellow MPs in previous discussions explained and presented in detail. So we have always advocated and we will advocate such laws that will allow courts to be independent authorities of the state, which protect the freedom and rights of citizens and ensure constitutionality and legality. We will advocate the adoption and application of such laws that will prevent any citizen of our country, as was the case with our President Slobodan Milosevic, from kidnapping, closing and handing over to an illegal Hague tribunal, or any other illegal and incompetent institution. We will advocate such laws, that if this happens, there must be a clear responsibility, not as in the case of President Milosevic, that none of the responsible people in the judiciary reacts, despite the fact that President Milosevic at the time had the status of the detained person over whom, as is known, jurisdiction has exclusively an investigative judge and judicial authority. So, they cannot pour the ashes of an investigative judge, the President of the Belgrade District Court, nor the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, nor anyone else in the judiciary, because they did not respect existing laws and did not have the professional courage to condemn such an act or resign for inaction. The proposed laws, which we are discussing today, along with the positive ones, have certain weaknesses and solutions that we think are dysfunctional and unscheduled and question the independent status of the judicial system. In particular, there is a need to improve and modify the proposed solutions relating to: the structure and authority of the High Judicial Council; different arrangements to the position of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. I would also like to illustrate this - the bill puts the prosecutor as an independent state body in the role of the governing body and under the influence of the minister of justice, which puts the principle of incoherence and hierarchy at risk when electing prosecutors. So far, as is known, the prosecutor's election proposal has been submitted by a republican public prosecutor, as an incoherent institution of office, and the Justice Committee has given an opinion, which was logical. According to the promoter, the high council is now given that role, which is wrong, because this dissuades the incoherence of the public prosecutor's office. He's also an unreasonable member of the 70s. The proposal for this law, which speaks of unprofessional performance of duty, is in line with the criteria of the republican public prosecutor. This provision is not sufficiently clear and precise and it is necessary to taxe what is considered to be an unprofessional exercise of duty, that it was not a fruit of free improvisation or interpretation. It is not acceptable for Article 75(3), according to which the first-degree republican public prosecutor is told by the minister in charge of the judiciary, and thus the republican public prosecutor becomes the prime minister, which is not acceptable and is not good. There is a need to regulate the position of judges and jury judges in the same way, in relation to what is proposed. The proposed solutions overemphasise the role of Justice Minister and the Ministry of Justice in these solutions. When it comes to the draft law on seats and areas of courts and prosecutors, I believe that there should be as many seats as the county now has. Finally, according to the proposed solutions, there are also some legal criteria that are imprecise and unsettled, so as such, they can create a misunderstanding or give guidance to misreading the meaning of certain provisions. For all the above, we, as a parliamentary group of SPS, have tried to correct the amendments we have submitted, in our opinion, the shortcomings. Our final relationship with the proposed laws will also depend on the adoption of our proposals, and all with the aim of preventing the continued submission of the judicial authority to the executive, further degradation of the judicial system and the creation of an independent, independent judicial and judicial authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13325	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by yesterday this package of laws was inconclusive in the opinion of the Government, the Committee and most of the People's MPs of the National Assembly. Since yesterday, after saying that once in a hundred years laws like this have been passed, many have changed their minds. But I can't change my mind. I continue to argue that these are non-serious laws and that the president of the National Assembly has seriously injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as Article 80(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed in Article 102. Rules of Procedure. In fact, he released draft laws in the congregation procedure that do not have a proposing. We have received some accompanying act informing us of the DSS parliamentary group that it has submitted draft laws and that a representative of the DSS parliamentary group in the National Assembly will be Parliament MP Dejan Mihajlov. The parliamentary group is not an authorised legislator. This is where we had to have the signatures of the MPs who proposed this law. We don't have any signatures from the MP who proposes this package of laws. The president of the National Assembly, under Article 134(1) and (2), was obliged to warn the DSS parliamentary group that the proposal did not comply with the Rules of Procedure. However, the president of the National Assembly did not do so, and no one warned him, not even the Legislative Committee, because the laws were unacceptable in the opinion of the majority in the National Assembly. Now, when they're acceptable, I ask you to arrange relationships in the National Assembly so that in the history of legal science, it doesn't remain recorded that we've passed laws on courts, almost, as women at the market, that no one has proposed these laws on courts here. The next day, if the laws turn out to be no good, no one will take responsibility for this proposal. Mr. Michaelov is not an authorised representative of the legislator. He is an authorised representative of his parliamentary group. So much so that all those involved in legal science should come out for this pay phone and finally remove the burden of shame from themselves that they are led by people who are not even engaged in law-abiding forms to meet the basic conditions required by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that something in the state works in accordance with the law. I don't have time to plead on individual solutions, because every second would deny one Serbian Radical Party MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13327	You have the right to speak because this was according to the Rules of Procedure so that time does not count on your right to be exposed. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the site: Interesting is your explanation... to object to the Rules of Procedure. You haven't answered. Maybe I'd give it to you like last time, you have to check it out. But this still deserves an explanation from the President of the Assembly or I'll answer the line. This sounds very interesting as an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, however, it is only interesting and nothing more than that, because the parliamentary group is made up of the MPs. National MPs are mandated by the Constitution by the legislators of the law. Therefore, if the parliamentary group, consisting of authorised legislators of the law behind the proposal, has authorised someone to represent the Assembly of the 46-member MPs, then it has met every criterion set out in the Constitution and Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13328	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the set of laws on the agenda today is just marketing the DSS political party, to show the people that they are affecting the reforms they promised in the pre-election process a year ago. All these five proposals that make up today's debate have already been seen. There's nothing new about it, except that it's supposed to be arranged. The judiciary isn't independent today. All this is solved under the conductor stick of Vladin Batic. He scares, terrifies and threatens with his statements on your media. That's obvious. As a result of such threats, his Demochrist party is expected to be stronger for a new judge or member. The guaranteed freedoms of citizens should be defined by the tasks of the Western employer. Mostly when someone comes from a European country, from those who bombed us, that's when we coordinate and edit our judiciary and all the laws they propose. We'll probably be editing our judiciary for all the years to come, until Carla del Ponte says -- well, that's enough, you Serbs have paid off. The principle of power-sharing also implies the same efficiency of all forms of state government. That's not present today. We see that neither the Republic nor the federal government has a single opinion on the importance of state laws and projects. Djindjic, Kostunica, Mihajlovic, Canak and do not list them in my statements are diametrically different. Everyone thinks differently and makes statements, and there's nothing in the end. It's just a buy of time. The promised reforms are just verbal nature. Nothing has really changed. We Serbian radicals will not vote for this set of laws. There's no one from the government today either. What do they need DSS laws for? The situation of the courts in the future will depend on the execution of the crimes committed by the united Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13329	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, and then Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that I only have three minutes to speak, based on the democratic rules of procedure passed by the assembly majority, I cannot be more specific about a set of five laws that should be system laws. That's why I'm only going to talk about the causes and consequences of the possible adoption of laws like this. Proposer, who we have already found to be imaginary, i.e. not existing, he says, in his explanation that these laws should lead to our judiciary being rational, efficient and independent. None of these objectives will be achieved by these laws, and especially by being independent. Who are you independent of? From the executive? We have seen this for the past year, how much interference the executive government has made, especially the minister of justice and all other ministers, officials, members of the government in the work of the judiciary. Mr. Covic, as Deputy Prime Minister, sent his lawyer to the investigative prison to threaten Jazimir Vasiljevic with accidentally saying who recruited him at the time while the firm "Yugoscanik" was still working successfully. There, so much justice is independent under this authority, and it will be even more independent when, in the high council of the judiciary, a minister of justice who was unable to prepare these laws with all the logistics he had for a year, but Dejan Mihajlov took it upon himself and thus probably recommended himself for the future justice minister. But, gentlemen, the causes for the adoption of these laws lie in the Constitution which we have already had the opportunity to see, that is, constitutional solutions for Serbia, which Zorica Radovic, wife of Vojislav Kostunica, wrote. When we talk about the appeals courts that she has provided here and the district courts that become first-degree courts, although I do not see then the differences between municipal and districtal, I would not even come to that conclusion that I am now going to make that I did not pay any more attention to what Zorica Radovic says - three municipalities, up to seven municipalities, can make up one district, or no more than 50,000 residents can do one district. Therefore, if you divide the number of inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia, 10 million, with 50,000 inhabitants, we will have 200 districts. The possibility, that's it. So 200 county courts. Minister Batic or the Serbian government could not easily control the work of these district courts, but through an appeal court, one in Belgrade, and these departments in Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad, unfortunately you have forgotten Pristina completely, Kosovo and Metohija no longer exist, will be able to control the work of the second-degree court very easily. The Supreme Court is already under control, through Mrs Karamarkovic, the Society of Judges, whose number is growing, here in a year from 120 to 1,200, so many of our judges are independent. Independent of their country, but therefore dependent on Soros, Switzerland, America, Canada, where the Society of Judges sends them, as well as the Serbian Government to participate in some symposia and exchange experiences for good foreign currency diaries. Of them they become addicted, and of this state they are independent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13331	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SRS on this package of laws is best explained by SRS representative Aleksandar Vukic and you know our position, that we believe that a single law should be passed that regulates this entire area as regards judges, courts, court arrangements, etc. We believe that it is best for the National Assembly to elect judges of the Supreme Court, and that the Supreme Court, or judges in the Supreme Court, choose, or propose all other MPs. I would like to say a few words about the promoter and the proposal for this epic law proposed once in a hundred years, as Mr. Mihajlov of the Democratic Party of Serbia said, as well as the reaction of Minister Batic, who said that Mr. Mihajlov took it from the cabinet (so it was written in the press) of the Justice Minister, that he was doing a little fixing there, and that we received an unfortunate package of laws that should not even be discussed. Now, Minister Batic isn't here to tell us if he said it exactly or whether the journalists mistranslated it. In any case, if it really is, Mr. Michael, taken from the Justice Minister's office, then there's no reason to wait for the government's or the ministry's opinion, given that they've been doing this package of laws and that there's also their desire to support this bill. If not, then I wonder why you tolerate such a minister being in the government, that all of his legal proposals or we return them or he withdraws them himself, why we pay him the salary, what does the Ministry do when MPs have to deal with such serious affairs as legislating the law, although I do not dispute that it is their right and that they have that kind of legislative activity. We have also received a lot of amendments from committees with which Mr. Michaelo agreed as a legislator and we are not clear on how to make it happen that at one point these laws were not good, and now they say they are good with these amendments. Why didn't they do it right away? Well, you belong to the ruling majority. You've all done DOS together. Why are we discussing this in the congregation and wasting precious time? We'll talk about all that and stuff in King's Day Friday at the SRS rally at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13333	The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by Dragan Cholic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll start with the proposal for a law on judges. Article 4 states - material independence, where the judge has the right to pay the right to maintain his independence and the safety of his family. That "appropriate" is indeed extremely undefined and since we know what the last year's salary is in our republic, it's obvious that DOS's government doesn't know what good pay means, so I'm sure this provision is "suitable" not appropriate. Article 27 says judges cannot be members of the political party. Under the constitution, they can absolutely be members of the political party, but they have no right to be in office. Only the Serbian Radical Party has always been consistent with that. Even Radu Trajkovic was kicked out of the party because she tried to stretch her brother into those functions. The left-handed have done it before, and now you know that DOS has been absolutely in power for the past month. So this is just heavy demagogy, and the independence of the judiciary has nothing to do with it. The proposal for a law on high-level judiciary - first of all, in Article 4, says: Six invited members of judges elect Serbia's Supreme Court among judges. And the second is said that of the two called members of the public prosecutor, the one-choice minister in charge of the judiciary and the other republican public prosecutor. I'm asking you where you're from in the second position are prosecutors who haven't been mentioned before. It's obviously your fault again. Article 6 states that a member of the High Judicial Council is elected for five years, i.e. to be re-elected. It has not been defined how many times it can be selected. Obviously, as long as it suits you. The next law is the law on the regulation of courts, you have more attitudes. First of all, it is absolutely unnecessary that there is a jury judge institute because, in practice so far, there is no justification for such existence and it is obvious that the judges were persons who observed the trials, but where they were never told. The SRS advocates the unification of our judicial system and believes that the existence of some special courts is absolutely unnecessary. All economic disputes should be placed in the jurisdiction of the district court as we propose. As for appeals courts - in any case, only special departments for administrative disputes can be formed within the framework of the Supreme, District and Municipal Courts, instead of establishing new, special courts that require huge budget costs. The draft law on the public prosecutor's office, above all, the salaries you mentioned, the salaries of the public prosecutor were arranged by special laws so that absolutely no need to be governed by this law that you have proposed. The public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor are elected for the area of one or more courts and the republican public prosecutor cannot deploy the deputy public prosecutor at his own discretion. Obviously you're still wrong, but we'll talk more about it at the King's rally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13335	There is a word from MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed text of the law should bring about improvement in one of the most important areas of society, and there is every opportunity for wherever DOS government works, there is chaos and it is almost certain that it will not be better in the field of justice either. The situation in the judiciary is bad, and the new bill will not fix anything, but will further worsen the situation in the judicial system. Serbian citizens are deceived, deceived, and now an illusion is being created that they are moving towards judicial reform. You haven't fixed anything yet. You didn't convince the citizens that you were effective or that you were serious and intending to fix anything. An independent judiciary under DOS rule is utopia. The executive authority shall be directly involved in the work and decisions of the courts. Justice Minister Vladan Batic is an alpha and omega of the justice system. He knows in advance who will be arrested, convicted, delivered to The Hague tribunal. He knows in advance who will surrender voluntarily. Never more than it is today have the Constitution and the laws of this country been violated and there has never been more shameless abuses. How does the DSS behave as a bill promoter? Does he fight and advocate as allegedly a legalist party for an independent judiciary? The independent judiciary is for the Democratic Party of Serbia when judges choose their prominent activists and officials. In the same day, they propose and choose for the judge and president of the court. If he is a member of a political party, what will he have to do with a political opponent? The courts of one party's staff, replaced by DOS party personnel, have been cleared. Then what's independent about it? Our judiciary is independent of justice, morality, honor and law. You gentlemen are still floating on the wings of revolutionary enthusiasm. What will be the role of municipal courts in the first degree procedure? What's the role of county courts? You are introducing appeals courts into four cities in Serbia. How will the citizens travel and how much will it cost them? Serbia's Supreme Court limits and introduces two stages of the Supreme Court. Will this contribute to the efficiency of the justice system? You, Mr. DOS mania, are bringing desolation into all spheres of society. When the goddess of justice saw the minister of justice, she fainted, and they barely recovered her, so she had to put the blindfold over her eyes. It's our, unfortunately, thanks to your tragic reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13337	Are the presidents of the parliamentary group answering for a word? He has the word Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13338	Dear Mr. President, fellow MPs, we Socialists were not against the bill of these laws, nor on the board, nor on the debate, at least when it comes to those principled, fundamental elements of these laws. We weren't against all the solutions. Why? For reasons similar, or the same, to those made up by the Socialists in 1996, but which were not the subject of the congregation procedure. We have spoken in favour of all those solutions in the draft laws based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and which ensure the independence of the judicial authority from legislative and executive. We have spoken in favour of all those solutions that protect independence, independence and the continuity of judicial and public prosecutorial functions and that eliminate the possibility of excessive or open interference in the work of the judiciary. You've also heard our criticism of the proposed law. These are also our criticisms of the proposed laws laid down by my fellow MPs. The criticisms are numerous and diverse, I won't repeat them. Here I'm going to point to several, which in my opinion are important and which should not be contained in these proposals of the law. One -- it is not a good solution for a citizens' association such as Serbia's Bar Association, so professionally, but nevertheless, the association of citizens, from its ranks, to elect representatives to the High Council of Justice. Someone will say that it is good because it is a representative of the profession, but that this reason is not good and enough has shown none other than one of the lawyers considered competent, Mr Tapuskovic, who has been engaged from an illegal UN tribunal, formally as a friend of the court, and essentially to assist the indictment against Slobodan Milosevic. Believe it or not, you could see it directly, and also read it in means of public information, that lawyer doesn't know that the Constitution is the highest act of every state and that no decision, whether it's a republican or federal government, can be above the Constitution. That says, unfortunately, either the complete ignorance of lawyers, or other motives, which I don't want to go into, but also confirms that the Association of Lawyers should not be presented in the High Council of Justice. Secondly, we believe that the executive power cannot be so involved in the work of the judiciary that it cannot be involved at all in the work of the judiciary. If we really want the judiciary to be independent, independent, out-of-the-day policies, then there is no logical need to adopt any solution that enables the representatives of the executive authority and, in particular, the minister of justice to influence the work of the judiciary. If the minister is more concerned with politics than with the profession, as is the case with the current minister, then the adoption of the proposed solutions would be even more devastating, both for the judicial system and for the state and for the citizens. You've seen the previous days -- two laws, proposed by the Ministry of Justice, have been withdrawn from the procedure over the past few days. The minister wasn't here to tell us anything, explain, let's hear the reasons. It's not because of the withdrawal of the law, nor for moral reasons, to which so much is called when it threatens judges, nor for professional reasons, as a proposer, it resigns, which would be logical, but it's not. Since concrete solutions in the laws are also seen through the prism of daily policies, as well as the need to be in the general interest, the Minister of Justice ( neither present nor future) should be allowed to interfere in the work of the judiciary. If, for the sake of example, a solution was adopted that the minister of justice could appoint a public prosecutor's office, and the minister of justice would then show a wish, as it does in his own way, that the prosecutor would, in practice, be exposed to the direct influence of the executive authority. The Minister himself. When it comes to the prosecution, I must say that we are also against solutions that do not predict the continuity of the Deputy Attorney General's office. They carry a large part of the job; not only would business begin to be questioned by the termination of the deputy prosecutor's mandate, but one of the consequences could be their abandonment of the job they were doing until then. And what would that mean for the D.A.'s office, you can judge for yourself. The solution is against the constitutional principle of the continuity of this function. There are other proposals that put the prosecution under the auspices of the Justice Ministry and which, of course, should not be accepted. We've suggested a number of amendments, which we'll try to make all those solutions that are bad, dysfunctional, non-road, change. They repeat once again that our relationship to the laws will ultimately depend on adopted solutions, whether to continue undermining the judicial authority to an executive, whether to continue the degradation of the judicial system, or whether it will be what needs to be, an independent and independent government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13339	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? There is a word from MP Aleksandar Vukic, representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13340	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group will vote against a set of proposed laws, as we said at the beginning of this debate. We will vote against because no one has convinced us with their arguments that something really is reforming, that something really is changing better and that the situation in the Serbian judiciary will be different. In addition to the Paroles' statements that we are in favour of an independent judiciary, that we will have a very different judiciary than we had, and it was not good (we can agree with that), we have not heard anything else. But let's see what the independence of the judiciary or the independence of the public prosecutor's office looks like, therefore, as a state body, and not as a special state government, in the conduct of the representatives of the current regime, in what DOS government is doing today. For years, we've heard the story of some reformers, people who are independent, free-loving. I'm going to make one parallel to show you and show you what it looks like today, with one other area and a sphere of social life. For years, we have heard the story of independent journalists, about how they are fighting for professional and objective information, that they are not on the side of any political organisation, and here in some newspapers today you can see that their fins became all the heads of the cabinets of the Serbian Government, the secretaries and secretaries of the government of the Republic of Serbia, almost from the first to the last. I don't know where that professionality and objectivity comes from. Some of them became ambassadors to Australia, Canada, cabinet heads, officials, etc. In this regard, when they talk about an independent judiciary, they probably mean an independent judiciary, which is independent of the Constitution and the law, because today in Serbia they are threatened by those who would like or would like to refrain from judging by the Constitution and the law, which is prescribed by the highest legal act, the lex superior of this country, and it is prescribed even by the proposal of this law, so I am asked the question - who is in the executive power that the brown says - you have tried according to the law, but it is not moral, because I do not like the Constitution and the laws, and then he likes to propose the exact same law, as the SPS or JUL has proposed, is no longer important, in any other period. Who is it that can say that the judge should not adhere to the Constitution and the law, but rather stick to a political opportunist, or what the representatives of the executive authority will say to him, in this case, the minister of justice? Is that an independent judiciary, is that what we stand for? And then it is said here that it contributes to the creation of an independent judiciary. In what way? I'll start with the Public Prosecution Act, the least I've ever talked about is my first presentation. Namely, the public prosecutor's office is an independent state body, which prosecutes perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, protecting constitutionality and legality by investing legal means and taking other actions, to which the law has been authorised. If you have such an influence by the executive authority, almost incredible, on the work of a public prosecutor, then in no way is it any longer an independent state body, and there is no longer any dependence on the legitimate body, you can think of how that body will function. And then you have in Article 3 of the proposed law something that's very interesting. It is said: "The use of public office, the means of public notification and any public hearing affecting the public prosecutor's office is prohibited. "I have to ask -- and what is the congenital norm, that is, which is a sanction for it, because it seems to me that you could then all ministers and many others in the ruling majority of this room, send to prison for 300 years, if we were to follow some other laws, some other countries, criminal laws. Well, people, nothing else is done in this country except judge, judge and press, or not just form and establish, but function revolutionary justice, revolutionary prosecution and revolutionary courts. The prosecutor, who had to - edge official duty to initiate a case against certain persons for the kidnapping of certain citizens, including in Strpci, (don't throw it away because you don't know anything about it, and it would be good to read this law and many other books), but also in Kosovo and Metohija to initiate proceedings against many Shipars. He won't do it. But that's why the moment the court in charge lets someone, who represents a political opponent to the authorities, defends himself from freedom alone, and has not reached an acquittal, has only given him the opportunity to defend himself from freedom, and then, through the means of public intelligence, the public prosecutor is involved, and no one knows how and on what basis, that I am not talking about some others who are holders of judicial functions, as well as the minister of justice, everyone is doing that hack, at all costs, because they have to be judged the way they think. Let the Constitution go, let the law go, it doesn't matter, it's important how they want the judiciary to be. It's the top principle in Serbia. How can Jezimir Vasiljevic be released, not to defend himself from freedom, so that he can say who they are, who they are from today's regime that took his money and when they were in opposition even today when they are in power? He can't say -- by the way, said the man by accident, so he made a big mistake, and that's why he's going to have to go to jail for another 100 years -- that no one from the SRS has ever taken anything from him. That's why he has to go to jail for another 100 years. These provisions seem really grotesque. I must read, in order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, what powers the minister of justice has in relation to the public prosecutor's office, therefore, it is said: these are only small increases in the powers of the executive authority, as set out in the justice minister. The minister is responsible for launching a procedure for the resolution of every public prosecutor and deputy, including a republican public prosecutor, to remove from the duties of the republican public prosecutor under the legal conditions, to conduct a procedure in the first instance which determines the completion of the working century and the existence of reasons for the resolution of the republican public prosecutor. And then, what's worse, to appoint the perpetrator of the duties of the republican public prosecutor. If these are the changes, if these are the reforms that will lead us to an independent judiciary, to a very different public prosecutorial function than it was understood in the previous period, then please don't, let's return it sooner. If you're going to continue this way, I urge you to pass a law of terrorism. The same was suggested, and we didn't let him go. Bring the terrorism law. Perhaps you can apply it, perhaps it can benefit you in the same way as some other laws. I have to point out something else that's been said here. I was already talking about the fact that we consider it unnecessary to create new specialised courts, such as administrative courts, as well as the introduction of another instance, i.e. the creation of new appeals courts. First of all, I would say about the administrative court, that we are in fact erasing the first degree, the most significant jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Serbia, in which he settles administrative disputes against acts of the republican authorities. I have to point out something else that the promoter himself noticed, but in no way did he take it seriously, and he didn't say how this problem would be solved. This is a problem, not only of political and not only of legal nature, but of a major problem of economic and financial nature. Namely, the borrowing of district courts almost exclusively by first-degree jurisdiction leads inevitably to the expansion of their actual jurisdiction, while increasing their number, they are now 30, and the number of judges and court staff in them. The education of several appeals courts, of course, is very expensive. It is said in the bill that additional appropriations from the budget for the implementation of these laws are not necessary. How is that possible? How is that possible? In such a way it is impossible, it seems to me that everyone in Serbia understands it, and I will not particularly respond because you also know about the appeals courts, when we talked about geographical distance, there is always the possibility that some of the parties are asking for a session of a larger one, and that it is then in an incomparably difficult position than it was to date. I would point out once again, I know that many, who haven't read either one, nor any of the other laws that were on the agenda, are in a hurry to go home, and I will end up within a minute or two, if you had so much patience, I would only warn you that on two occasions the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated. Before that, I would say that there would also be a reform good solution, at least we in the SRS think that it was going to be a full professionalisation of the judiciary, not to give more powers to the executive authorities and through the high council of justice, and that through the judge of the jury there can be even better control over the work of the courts than was the case so far, and to introduce the principle of party similarity, which we have already talked about. So, the presidents of the courts, judges and public prosecutors are elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must not be trampled, and the bill completely disintegrates and collapses. Please pay attention that we can't... and the government of the Republic of Serbia has even accepted and said there are violations of the Constitution in these members. I can't understand that one day the Constitution breaks it, and two days after that the same provision, the same norm, it doesn't violate the Constitution. I would like to invite you, allude you and appeal to your conscience to think about this, to really prepare incomparably better laws, which will represent a positive reform in the judicial system, something that will not be inconsistent, inconsistencies and too complicated for every citizen, and I believe that the citizen and his interest are something that is sacred and most important. I think we can bring incomparably better laws and that this country deserves it and that in the National Assembly we can pronounce it. The SRS parliamentary group will vote against the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13341	The word has the People's Messenger Zeljo Huric, then Mr Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13342	Dear Members of the People, this is not a very nice time to discuss, but I'm going to ask you for some more attention. In fact, it seems to me that yesterday Mr. Mamula said the essential thing about these laws, or the proposals of these laws, which is that this proposal does not really have any claim for its originality. In fact, it is something that has long been seen or better said that works quite successfully in Western European countries, making them legal states. I must say that my impression, listening to the statements, is that the majority of opposition MPs still focused their criticism on these very essential views, or members of the law, and that what I expected was less attention to the specificity of this space, which is for those members who define some of the specificities of the state we live in. On my part, in yesterday's announcement, I tried to make my humble contribution to that part, and here and now I'm going on where I put the dot yesterday. In fact, it's a proposal for a trade court seat. You are well aware that Novi Pazar is over 100 km away from the King, where the seat of the trade court is located. In addition, the New Pazar is engraving two other cities, Tutin and Sjenica, from Novi Pazar, Sjenica is 55 km away, and Tutin 35 km - is not an asphalt road you know very well about Mirčić, that there are very bad roads, that there are very bad winters, that it is often stormy, that it is a high level road and that it really takes a lot of effort for the citizens of the region to come to the Kingdom where they would exercise their rights. On the other hand, I must say, it is also known that there are a large number of cases in that area, and a considerable number of complaints about the rulings of the Court of Commerce in the King. In the previous law, for example, Cachak, who was only 30 km from the King, had a department of economic court and I don't know why it was not respected this time, and on our part it would have full support, but here I am telling you now, Sjenica, which is 150 km away, must go for such items in the King. On the other hand, Novi Pazar is also one of the malls. In fact, there are over 3,260 businesses in the city, of which about 1,200 car carriers only, and this number of procedures arise. All in all, this requirement to form a department of economic i.e. A trade court in Novi Pazar should not occur to anyone that it is some kind of political, or other kind of request, but a pure request of economic and rational nature. In the hope that the promoter will actually have this in mind and will try to find a way to overcome this one need, thank you and end my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13343	The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13344	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in proposing system laws, the ruling DOS is once again going in the wrong order of the proposal. I remind you that this assembly adopted the first tax laws, and only then came into the privatisation and labour law procedure, which should be part of the economic reforms in this country. So, when the ruling majority adopted the first tax laws, and only then went into laws concerning economic reform, it is in my opinion a completely wrong order of proposal. This time it's happening the same way. First, this National Assembly adopted a decision to appoint public office holders in the judiciary, and only now is a set of law on justice, including the law on judges. So, first you've appointed judges, and now you're passing laws on them. Also, I think it's the wrong process to propose. The bottom line of all this is the agreement of the two strongest parties in DOS, by system - we will accept your system law on justice, and you will accept our labour law. The Serbian Unity Party will not participate in this, and therefore we will vote against the proposed laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13345	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13346	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first and foremost like to thank all MPs who have participated in the debate on extremely constructive tones, both those who will vote against and who dispute this bill, in general this whole concept, and those who will vote in favour and who have had very correct and useful remarks, which we will seek to respect in the process of adopting the amendment. What is important, I would once again point out and point out some new things that may be more or less distracted or not at all distracted in these bill proposals. The fact is that a specialised administrative judiciary is being introduced, and that is something that exists in all the countries of Europe and in all the countries in our environment. The only country in the European Community and the country in our environment that has no specialised judiciary is Greece and now they are heading towards reforming the judicial system right now towards building a specialised judiciary. The fruit of the solution that we have in this bill has just come up with parallel-law analyses of what is best for our society right now. This bill introduces some new rights, the party's right to appeal, the trial, the judge's personal list and all other court employees. One important segment, which is that cases will be deployed by case, not by whether someone is closer or further, nor by decision of the President of the Court, or by having any relationship with the parties in the proceedings. It has already been amended by the amendments of the Committee on Justice and Administration, to appoint a high council of justice, not a minister, as proposed, as the official of office and a republican public prosecutor. The second amendment is that two members of the High Council of Justice from the prosecutor's office appoint a republican public prosecutor, not one minister of justice, so that it also went in the direction of disseminating the executive authority from the profession and full participation in deciding on all matters to those who are doing the area, in this case prosecutors and judges. I would ask all MPs not to look at these bill proposals through the minister of justice, the current minister or anyone else, here I am talking about the minister of justice institution, the ministers are changing, and we need to build a system that needs to work and that should exist. It must be made mandatory to stress, in the end, that these laws are part of, that they are the beginning and must be the beginning of all changes - because the change of these laws without change in all other areas, and at the federal level, whether this is a criminal procedure, the Law on Prosecution should be amended, the executive procedure and, therefore, all these laws should be adapted to circumstances - and that these laws, without all these changes, will not contribute much to the efficiency of the judiciary. This is one important, but one single step, and we need to take a lot of steps to build a legal, democratic and stable state, a secure legal order, so that we can provide our citizens with the most adequate way to protect their rights. What is particularly important is that we have to work to build a system and create conditions for the system to work, establish values, and in this situation an individual, whoever he is, being a minister, being a prime minister, anyone else, will not be able to affect that system. The key is that we have to start building the system. These laws are precisely leading towards the construction of a system that will be independent of political or any other government, which will be independent of everything except that it will have to be dependent on it to judge by law. That's why these laws are systematic and they're going to build one system, and if we can build a system, we'll be able to keep our promises to the citizens, and in any case, that's one stable legal order, one legal and democratic state. I believe that these laws will receive support and simply that through the process of adopting amendments they will be corrected to that extent, that they will even better protect citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13347	Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13348	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for those who did not have enough patience and attention to listen to what was said earlier, I will be very brief and it is about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and who has the right to propose such an act. Neither in the Constitution nor in the Rules of Procedure, there is the possibility that the proposing would be a parliamentary group but a member of Parliament - Article 80(2). The RS Constitution. At the same time, I would like to point out to you the fact that in the material that we received when the parliamentary group submitted amendments to, say, the draft labour law was delivered to a complete list of their signatures -- they are not here at all. There's not one in the whole act. I would ask you not to play with the Rules of Procedure or the Constitution, with the legal order of our country, and don't throw away whether it's colloquial or not. We have norms here, not colloquials, and what is said on the street, who is an apostle and who is not an apostle. I'm sure even Mr. Crescent. Michael knows that we are right about what we are talking about, and I would also ask the President of the National Assembly, the Secretary and the others, to respect this, and I especially appeal to the MPs who care about the dignity of the National Assembly that something like this, such an act, is not accepted in any way, because it is a violation of the Law and a violation of the Constitution as the highest legal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-31-0.u13349	You've already received an answer about this, but let's add that answer, because you love the same remarks over and over again to point out. You have the signature of Parliamentarian Dean Michael. (Tomislav Nikolic: It is one signature. ( ) Sufficient signature. Mr. Nikolic, don't get it. (Tomislav Nikolic: This is already the second explanation. It's not second, it's first. The proposal is set up by the DSS parliamentary group, which consists of 46 Constitutionals of Authorised Proposers. (Alexander Vukic): Where are their signatures? As far as you're concerned, where are the signatures? They informed us by signature. It was signed by MP dean mihajlov. That's enough. (Alexander Vukic: He did not sign the law, but rather the accompanying act. If you will, the National Assembly can plead. I ask the MPs to plead to Mr. Vukic's objection. For 18, against 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted 18, a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept the objection which Mr. Vukic pointed out, that there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I am concluding a joint principled search on: the draft law on the regulation of courts, the draft law on judges, the draft law on the High Council of Justice, the draft law on the public prosecutor's office and the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, and we are moving to a decision on the draft laws in principle. (Doljub Stamenkovic: Before the vote, I ask that the quorum be determined. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. First, I put the draft law on the regulation of courts, in principle. For 127, against 28, a abstentioned one, was not voted by eight, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Secondly, I put the draft law on judges to the vote, in principle. For 136, against 29, two abstentions, did not vote seven, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Third, I put to the vote the draft law on the High Council of Justice, in principle. For 138, against 29, two abstentions, did not vote seven, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Fourth, I put the draft law on the public prosecutor's office to the vote, in principle. For 139, against 28, a abstentioned one, did not vote eight, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Fifth, I put the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors in principle. For 137, against 29, the two abstentions, were not voted by eight, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We have another decision to make. Before I inform you that, in the follow-up to this session, the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration and the session of the Legislative Committee will be held, in order to discuss amendments of the MPs to the draft laws tabled by MP Dejan Mihajlov. I'm asking the board members to attend these sessions to prepare for a follow-up. The National Assembly will conduct a thorough search of these proposals for the laws on which a joint principled search has been carried out, which have been accepted in principle, a search in particular and a vote in general. Since we do not have the government's opinion at this point on the proposed amendments to the Board of Administration and Justice, and how the cabinet's session will be held tomorrow, as Friday was set as an unworkable day, I suggest we make a decision that the Rules of Procedure should be given the deadline for the government's delivery of this opinion, with it being Monday at 8:00 p.m., and thus we would also decide to continue the session at 10.00 p.m. on Monday. Please make this proposal known. For 134, no one, abstentioned one, voted 14, a total of 149 MPs. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00 hours. The deadline for delivering the government's opinion is Monday at 8:00 p.m.
