ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7398	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, most of the debate on this law has passed in the discussion - who has the moral right to propose such a law and who does not. There was also a story about who beat up, who arrested minors, and who abused them? That's what you DOS gentlemen have so far been right to do, until you came to power, to debate, to criticise, and to seek the rights of minors. However, since you came to power, you have begun to carry out the same and even worse repressive measures against minors. A few days ago, in particular, I think it was exactly seven days ago, a boy, a minor, was brought to the police and heard just because he wrote on the ad board - DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7399	Please move to the agenda -- a bill on the protection of minors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7400	That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the discussion that was here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7401	We don't convince daily events, we're talking about the bill. Please move on to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7402	I have to tell you something, if there's a debate about minors in that direction, then I have to tell you that while that young man, who was your fit, wrote your passwords, went with the resistance activists, that's when it worked out for you. Now that he's not satisfied with your authority, that doesn't suit you, and you're arresting him. As for the law and the purchase of alcohol and the use of alcohol, I must tell you that during the celebration of the election victory in the period after midnight, an object, owned by Mark Milosevic, was broken. The majority of minors, over 80%, participated. The first thing that flew towards that object was an empty bottle of brandy. So on the discussion of whether minors can get and use alcohol, I don't think you have the right to discuss it either. I can tell you that you also abused minors during demonstrations and walks, even teaching staff, who may have been DOS activists...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7403	I already warned you to talk about what's on the agenda. Now I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7404	Your claims are also ridiculous, gentlemen, that such a law violates the constitutional rights and obligations of the citizens of the SRJ and violates the federal constitution. That's what I've even heard from the elite lawyers and experts from DOS, where they say they're violating the right to freedom and movement. Isn't that the same constitution that provides for every citizen of the SRJ to be elected and elected in the elections? He doesn't achieve his greatest right until he's a minor. Even the right to travel is only then coming true. So that claim of yours in this law falls into the water. Now it's just a question of why you're so against this law. Probably because you have abused the same youth and minors in many ways so far when conquering and seeking to win power. You're saying that young people shouldn't be getting cigarettes, alcohol, drugs and weapons, you're saying that this is the condition you found here, you're saying that it might be Marco Milosevic's fault most of all. Now I ask you, where is this Marko Milosevic? He's gone. I can't have cigarettes smuggled on traffickers. Surely no one is going to Republika Srpska, Romania or Bulgaria to bring five boxing boxes. That's what gets in the trucks here. Only people who are close to the authorities can do that. By the way, he just changed his boss. You haven't done anything new. As for the debate on who the ratings are growing here, and in the part where Mr. Slavoljub Matic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7405	Mr. Arsic, we're not having this discussion. For the third time I warn you to talk about the bill and that your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7406	Mr. Dragan Marsicanin, I have to tell you something, that this is your DSS MP for this speaker who gave a lie when it came to the elections in Brežev. Right behind this pay phone, just when there was a debate on this subject. Why would you let him do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7407	Your time is up. The word is by MP Dragan Rafaelovic, followed by MP Gvosden Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7408	I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a doctor, I'm not a sociologist, I'm just a peasant. I didn't think I was talking about this subject, however, simply forced by discussions that weren't in the context of the topic, which were flat-rate and which turned to other stories, I saw that I had to. I have to because, next to me, the peasants are my son and my daughter-in-law, and if God gives my grandson, who is four years old today, he'll be a peasant. By this you see that my destiny -- my past, my future and my present -- is about my Ratares, my Obrenovac and this Serbia. So, from how they live, in what conditions, my grandson and all the children who are born and who are already small and born in Serbia, it depends on what Serbia will be. That's why I'm gonna talk. While in Serbia the word of a host, a Serbian peasant, these laws were not needed by Serbia. At that time, children respected their parents, and parents loved their children. In these 50 years, however, so much has been done that it was already on the periphery of Obrenovac, for example, in the village of Vukicevic, a young man died of an excessive amount of drugs, which could never have been imagined. That's where I'm gonna turn off the subject a little bit, put together that story about the vault and the drugs in the vault. Another young man, who was a police inspector, his brother, was barely saved, same from an excessive amount of drugs. So that's enough information about the relationship between these two things. The Christian Party will not vote for this law, although it sincerely hopes that the promoter simply felt guilty about all these 50 - 60 years of inaction in this field. But he shouldn't have done it with this law. Why didn't he do it before, when he had full power, while they could do it all? Like, why do you mention fighting religious sects? It is true that religious sects threaten young people, but why did you return the law, why didn't you return the property to the Serbian Orthodox Church, which, reinforced with its property, could take the children on the right path? The other thing about this law is the very religious sects. It is not the job of a messenger to determine what a religious sect is. It's the work of experts, the work of the Ministry of Faith, because there are churches among small religious communities that are on the right track, and we can't determine that. Why didn't you at least go back to school and college? Why did you let the homes of culture become ruins, and they worked for a while and meant something? You didn't separate a single dollar that way. Football clubs, amateurs, villages can't survive, except where some mechanics found interest, saw some boys who know how to play football or something, so they invested some money to sell that boy. So you had enough time to do something about it. You didn't do anything. I repeat, I sincerely hope this is your desire to correct what you've done. Since this law prevents young people from being forced off the side of the road without other laws, without, say, returning to religion, believing in school, believing in a country that will allow them to become employed after that school, to start a family, to live with their wages. It's a whole system of laws and it's one of the problems that you've left this government to solve. I don't want to list any more of the other reasons why you should withdraw this law. This cannot be done either by ban or by repression, and I repeat once again, but simply by the good work of the government, by the good work of Parliament and by the good laws that we will bring to life. I'd still like to address the President of the Assembly that I very much appreciate, and I appreciate his insistence on harsh words and insults no longer be referred to from this pay phone. But I must say, that's not how he's done it since the beginning. The Democratic Party has not offended anyone in this room, and the heavy accusations, heavy insults, have been sent to the MPs of the Democratic Party and to the president of the party, Prime Minister Vladan Batic. I don't think the president of the assembly has responded. I hope it won't be like that in the future. Thank you. (Branislav Ivkovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7409	It was a political assessment, no offense. (Branislav Ivkovic, from the scene: He is guilty of remorse. Not a good estimate, Mr. President. No, it's not, it's moderate. Don't. Indeed, there were no offensive words, there was nothing. The word is given by the MP of the people, Mr. Gvosden Jovanovic, and after that, the MP of the people Mirko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7410	Dear Presidency, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I have reported that in order to make this Parliament work more efficiently, I would like to give up my discussion, and I would like to appeal to other colleagues to go this way, so that we can be more efficient and much more important things done before. As far as the promoter is concerned, I would ask him to withdraw this law, because I think instead of taking care of these children, it's much more important that someone takes care of them. So much and thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7411	Mr. Jovanovic, I must remind you that you have done an insult. Now you have the right to a replica, indeed. Here you go. I think we really have to try to do it this way, because the other way obviously didn't breed fruit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7412	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am deeply convinced that the right to the replica was just a moment ago, but your restriction will surely have to be respected in the future. Serbia is a civil state under the Constitution. According to the definition of the Constitution that has just passed by the SPS, amendments and additions, Serbia has been defined as a civil state, multinational and multi-confessional and in that country a full equality of all peoples and peoples and all religions has been ensured. In this nation, Serbia's citizens and us in this assembly, perhaps the most important thing is to draw closer to the traditions and beliefs of this area and to the traditions and faith from these areas from Orthodox, Muslim, Catholic, and beyond, to younger generations, because they certainly turn them towards the family, to the healthy development of the spirit, to normal values, to those basic premises: don't steal, don't kill, don't disgust a man you don't even know about, and who you don't know whether he's worth more than you or he's equal to you. That's why I just want to tell the predecessors behind this pay phone that we, the socialists on the Educational Committee, have just advocated the introduction of religion into schools, and that the DOS MPs have just refused to introduce religion into schools. That's right, Mr. from the Demochrist Party, that's true. Therefore, we advocate, just to resist one mondialysm, which tramples national values, which tramples the borders, which erases peoples and peoples and religions, this mondiaism is known where it came from, to strengthen the religious attitude of citizens towards religion and church. Finally, at the time of the SPS, no church was in worse, on the contrary it was in a much better position than before, because the right to religion, the right to religious determination, was even more effective. About the withdrawal of the law. It is not clear to the promoters that many for this speaker, without arguments against the provisions of this law, have the only way to go back 10 years. This country can't even step a millimeter forward, as long as you're back 10 years, with flat-rates, and not reading the provisions. Should we withdraw the provision that a minor is not allowed to use cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, intoxicating drugs or drugs in public places? Shouldn't we pull a provision that says, a person who's known or found out that a minor isn't allowed to carry a weapon... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... poisons and toxic materials. Is that to back off? The point is, this law is very good and I have the right to another 10-minute exposure. I'll talk about him in more detail. Clearly, the provisions of the law are right. We showed he didn't break the Constitution, we proved he wasn't repressive to minors. In today's press, it's all the opposite, because it's known why he was on channel three, for example from five o'clock to half past eight, and not on channel two, the transmission of this session. It's being tested to end the truth for this people. (Zoran Ćirkovic: I want a word as a representative of the Education Committee. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7413	I don't understand you. (Zoran Ćirkovic: I want a word as a representative of the Education Committee. Yeah, so then? The order when the Committee's representative was supposed to come forward, and that's not you, it's over. You may now come forward as a People's MP. (Zoran Ćirkovic: I answered in good time to explain what was said. That was yesterday morning. (Zoran Ćirkovic: I answered in good time, here as a National MP. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Just one second. It's still a misunderstanding. Are you looking for a replica? He can't get a replica of the Committee, he can't get a rep, he can't get a representative of the Committee, he can do what he says in the Rules of Procedure. [[Zoran Cirkovic: Yes, I am looking for a replica.]] The MP or representative of the parliamentary group, if represented... (Zoran Ćirkovic: I am reporting as a National MP and a member of the Committee. Did you mention by name? (Zoran Ćirkovic: The Committee did. The Committee did, but you are neither by name nor by function. Please, what needs to go through the Rules of Procedure will pass, and you will look at the Rules of Procedure and we will continue to work. You may come forward as a People's MP. (Zoran Cirkovic: So I am reporting as a National MP. ) Enter the list and you will come to your turn. The word is by MP Mirko Petrovic, followed by MP Milan Stanimirovic. (Dragan Rafaelovic: Can I have a word? Here, by name, by function, what? You haven't been mentioned? No, guys, what's this about? Wait, Mr. Ivkovic replicated, there's no replica, you can't get it, not that I'm not giving it to you, but the Rules of Procedure don't give you that right, because there's no replica on the line. Please, let's take a look at the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Mirko Petrovic, followed by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7414	Mr. President, you haven't given me your word in a moment, and I'm going to resort to the usual radical maneuver. So, just a moment Mr. Ivkovic said...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7415	Please, I didn't give you the word to replicate. I ask you not to abuse the wording of the Rules of Procedure because it will not be allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7416	How are you gonna stop me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7417	By giving you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7418	So that's the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7419	Yeah, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's the only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7420	What can I do for you, God help you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7421	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7422	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of this law certainly deals with a very important problem and certainly very important problems, for the interests of our society and our country. Some solutions to this law can be talked about more or less critically, but it is certainly obvious that the proposing intention to receive in solving these problems to criminal - legal provisions, i.e. to apply criminal - legal provisions in the method of resolving this problem without receiving the process of education and education. What is undeniable, until the socio-economic conditions in the country change, until the family, church and school return to that place in the Serb people and the Serbian state that once had, cannot create serious and adequate assumptions for resolving the issue. The majority of Serbian Democratic Opposition MPs in their speeches the previous day rightly stressed why the former government, which has ruled Serbia for 10 years, for more than a decade, has not proposed and passed the law during the decade of rule of this country. Instead, a policy that creates an entirely opposite economic environment related to the education and education of young people has been led. It's criminalized society, huge social and economic differences have been created in the country, wealth in the country could only be obtained on the basis of smuggling, speculation, crime, and only from young people who had the way of success in this society were children of the tallest, or the highest state officials. They were the only ones who made millions of marks, only they were involved in smuggling and trade in tobacco and fuel, and we heard, or we could hear statements, and of course, it's a topic that is very important for this debate, we could hear the statements of the sons of the highest state officials, that they don't understand those young people who can't make a million marks. Young people were given 20 - year - old apartments from 150 to 200 square meters. During that time, another Serbia, another young Serbia, was killed in the battlefields, found in refugee columns, was in refugee centres, it sought...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7423	Please stick to the subject after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7424	I stick to the subject very well. She sought salvation by leaving this country. For the Democratic Party, three basic pillars in this society are church, school and family. They can be the only basic assumption to solve this issue. We're all familiar with the policy towards school and education workers over the last 10 years. The poorest layers of this society have been created from educators, and the essence of this policy has almost come to the point that these educators are fighting for naked survival, that they have not been able to provide their children with basic, i.e. meeting basic needs. About the church, I don't think there's any need to waste words. It was almost 10 years to pass a law on churches, which would regulate the position of churches in the state. It was little 10 years to pass a law that would allow the state to ban the work of those religious sects that are contrary to the morals and public order of this country. For all these reasons, and to mention something else, it was unlikely for 10 years to introduce religion into Serbia's state schools. It wasn't enough for 50 years for the previous government, or 10 years for this government to introduce basic religious education and education into state schools. There were not enough 10 years of government to pass a law passed by parliament, which was long ago in 1991, and then Serbia's president refused to sign it for the return of property to the Serbian Orthodox Church. For all these reasons, MPs of the Democratic Party will not vote for this law. I'd like to finally quote a statement, the thought of a Polish director who was decades ago, defining an ideology behind us... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... He gave a simple definition, or he said -- that's the schizophrenics of human morality. It seems to me that the discussion that has been conducted in the previous days of this law, as well as the debate that has been being held in parliament for months, is mostly reflecting that definition, when it comes to the schizophrenia of human morality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7425	The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, followed by Jakov Stamenkovic. I would just ask the MPs that the discreditation of the motionor is a legitimate tool, but if the only content of the discussion related to the bill is, I think I'm going to have to treat it as a deviation from the agenda theme, because I would also have to treat critics discredition in the same way. Please help me with that. (Božidar Vucurovic, from the place: You remembered too late. I didn't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7426	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not a phrase if I say that I really didn't intend to talk about the point relating to the draft law on the protection of minors. However, as a parent, and as a man who has entered politics primarily because of the future of my three children and my state of Serbia, I consider it appropriate to say a word about it and why I will vote against this bill as a member of the Democratic Party and the DOS. Respecting the president's suggestion, I'll skip that part about discrediting the legislator. That's all I'm gonna say, wars, misery, inflation, refugees and bombings have marked the past 10 years, leaving indelible scars on the souls of all our citizens, and most of our children. Coaches who lost all games, both internally and internationally, according to the system -- so that Vlasi could not see, by speedy procedure, issued the brochure under pretentious title "How with ease to victory", believing in the naiveness and forgetfulness of fans. The second reason I won't vote for this law is because of his repressivity. If the laws are the expression of the ruling majority, our will is not to protect young people from tobacco, alcohol, drugs, cubes, sects and other repression. Our goal is to enable young people: young people and minors in general are protected by being taught and trained by contented teachers, according to plans and programs of a forward future; young people are overprotected by growing up in happy families, in addition to happy parents, who can also provide normal schooling, and healthy food, and clothing, and shoes, and summering, and, of course, the most important - attention and love, which many generations have been deprived of because of the struggle for survival. The minors protect themselves by creating such a society where children will never again watch their honest and moral parents fail in Andric's confusing times, when they were cleverly silent, the fools talked, and the fucks got rich. The minors protect themselves by taking care of their health preventively, and if they are to be treated, doctors are satisfied with their status and with enough drugs, which will not be of suspicious origin. The minors protect themselves by protecting them from both political mythomania and mythology and focusing them on culture, education and sports. The young are protected by teaching them that patriotism is the intimate thing of every man and his close ties with the community and protects them from quasi-patriotism of the estradial type, quasi-nationalist, quasi-communist, quasi-socialist, even quasi-democracy, from quasi-profesor, quasi-vode and from all those who are quasi. We will protect the young so that there will be no more wartime in their military letters as before, but in their employment books. Young people should be protected from those who fear them with the world and Europe, who threaten that if DOS continues to live like this one day, imagine, like the Swedes or, God forbid, like the Swiss. Those who recommend Belarus as a model of life should know that Belarus is no longer the ideal of life - life in Belarus. Except maybe one that's not finished yet. All these xenophobes and unbelieving Toms will one day be grateful to us, if not them, then even if their children or grandchildren. By taking off the temperature, the disease is not treated. We need to deal with the causes, not just the consequences. To believe that only one such law can prevent the occurrences of the unwanted in young people means that the tree does not see the forest. The best cure against juvenile delinquency, alcoholism, drug abuse, gambling is a healthy and satisfied family, which is not available unless society is unsettled, unsatisfactory and unhappy. The minors protect themselves from sects by undermining more than half-life persecution and dedicating the religion of Orthodox, Catholic and Islamic from ideological initiatives from these areas, thereby reducing the fertile soil for the functioning of the sects. I sign for the morale of society that will rest on 10 commandments-- don't kill, don't testify falsely, don't do to anyone else what I don't want you to think. In the end, I will also vote against the Bill on the Protection of Juveniles because of a survey conducted last summer, according to which out of the country's 5 high-school students in Serbia, as many as four have declared to fantasize about one day leaving their country, by the system to graduate, so I emigrate. This law will not keep them in their homeland, but only a healthy state, a healthy family, in which an individual will also be healthy and satisfied, so he was a mature and mature man or a minor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7427	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last night at 9pm at Smederev police station, MP Dragan Colic was detained because he wrote with spray - DOS is the worst. The police let him go after an hour and asked him not to tell anyone. It's just a matter of work if we don't talk. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, provision of Article 1 98. The Rules of Procedure "gives too much discretion to the president of the National Assembly to decide whether anyone is talking about something on the agenda". The president is using it intensively today - the militia is training strictness. Of course, only the MPs of the SRS. "In order for the president of the National Assembly to assess that something someone wanted to say is really a topic that is on the agenda, he would have to have one trust of brains, one team of experts, one bigger old man, who would then arbitration whether the MP was talking about the topic. Gentlemen, some MPs who are prone to rhetoric, polemics, which are good orators, are used in metaphors, are used in different styles and other language figures, while others speak unilaterally, straight and simple or plain sentences. Therefore, the president of parliament cannot have such wide discretion, as his rights are identical to the rights of other MPs. This limited freedom of speech, both in kind and in length, represents only a colorful lie of parliamentaryism, is just a sweet fraud of democracy. With these provisions you practically introduce a verifiable one-party centralism. MPs receive the treatment of children in kindergartens, soldiers who are required to behave according to the rule of the service and the penitentiary in the penitentiary. You can always say by voting it's not like that. It's how we want it to be. Therefore, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure have no importance for you, nor are the provisions of the law, nor are the provisions of the Constitution. Will MPs accept the role of children in kindergartens, soldiers in barracks or prison penitentiary, then I warn you from this place, as well as the parliamentary majority, that you have been very wronged. Serious MPs from opposition parties will not participate in the work of such a parallel because you have limited freedom of speech, both in time and in kind, and turned the Assembly into a decor of parliamentaryism. Serious MPs of opposition parties will not participate in this, so if we leave this assembly, if you wish it to be so, etc." I didn't get to look at everything. This was said by Vladan Batic on 24 November 1994 while he was an opposition MP. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have not spoken a word of my own.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7429	It is quite fine, except for your remark that this applies to the Rules of Procedure and interpretation in different ways, or different MPs. First of all, your MPs have not yet participated, except for Mr Arsic, in the discussion, so I couldn't treat him differently compared to the MPs, he received a warning like Mr Cirkovic from the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia. I'm sorry, I made a mistake with the party, and there's no point in interpreting it differently. As far as the quote goes, I'll agree with him. The only difference is that I really don't need all these working bodies, compared to the then president of the Assembly, all of which is united in my smallness and which is false modesty, no worries, interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in the right way. I can put it to a vote if you say in what particular case the Rules of Procedure have been broken. The Rules of Procedure in this section have not been changed. You brought it, as you have now said, and we in that part, indeed with full conscience on my part, will apply it. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, make sure you listen to yourself at times as carefully as you listen to me. You mentioned my name and you said I was a member of the Democratic Party. I have great respect for the demochrists, but I am not a member of that party, but a member of New Serbia, a member of the DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7431	I'm sorry if I offended you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7432	Since you have now given me the right to the replica, to deny Mr. Ivkovic's allegations. The Education Committee, whose member I am, has made a decision to most DOS members...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7433	You're already being reminded of an attempt to abuse a pay phone. The replica doesn't apply to what you're saying. Now you're going back to what you've already been warned about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7434	What should I do to you, I said what I meant. (Dragan Rafaelovic: The mention is Vladan Batic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7435	Who's mentioned? Vladan Batic? Are you Vladan Batic? (Dragan Rafaelovic: I am an MP of the Democratic Party. So, as a member of the Democratic Party, half a minute. Sir, whether half a minute or 3.5 minutes has nothing to do with it. The Democratic Party is mentioned, Vladan Batic is mentioned, but as far as I can see, you are not Vladan Batic. Read the Rules of Procedure. You have no right. Please return to your seat, you have no right to speak. The word is from the MP James Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7436	The very number of participants in the discussion shows great interest and great concern for young people. That's also normal, because young people are part of the population that represents the future of the country and that, in a few years, should take responsibility for it. And so it doesn't matter to any of us what kind of people they're going to be tomorrow, like they don't care what country we're going to leave behind. However, in my opinion, we are arguing about the fact that those who led the country by October 5th are talking about the consequences, and we, who, by the vast majority and by the will of the people, have been given a mandate to govern the state, want to point out the causes that led to deviating phenomena in young people, especially in minors. Because if we remove the causes, we won't have to talk about the bad consequences. The phenomenon that a large number of children and youngsters have given themselves to vices - alcohol, tobacco, drugs or sects, is their attempt, unfortunately, I must admit - wrong, to escape from reality. For this reality, this world in which they have lived in the last ten years, has been devastating to them. Not dealing with reality, not being able to change it and influence it, they tried to escape it. This was skillfully used by cigarette smugglers and alcoholic beverages, drug dealers and religious sects. What were young people running away from or trying to escape from? They ran from war, sanctions, misery, and poverty. One word, they felt complete imperceptibility for life in this country. On one side, a small layer of extremely wealthy people, who had much more than they needed and what they deserved and who could afford their children what the largest number of people, Serbian citizens, who lived in misery and poverty, could not dream of achieving. The parents who were too rich could buy their children anything they wanted. Those poor people couldn't even do it in their dreams. For this reason, I believe that this bill, in the way it is conceived and reasoned, cannot and should not be accepted from all the arguments already mentioned by DS and DOS MPs. I'd like to mention two more, which I don't think has been mentioned so far, which fits the forward approach. First, a large part of the causes that lead to youth and children giving themselves to vices will be eliminated if we all commit ourselves much more to their education - start from parents, through schools, to municipal and republican authorities, who are, by function, in charge of taking care of children and youth. Of course, media and special experts whose superior task must be education and children and youth. I believe that only such a broad and synchronised action can be achieved much more than this proposed restrictive law. In a very different way, a special law should also be passed, but a law that will have a positive approach to solving this problem and which will fit into the general concept of approach to solving the problem of the new government. Secondly, and more importantly: this reform democratic government is already creating assumptions to prevent young people from getting into vices by, in addition to providing conditions for normal life and work, creating a sense of security and perspective for young people, safe to live in this country. This will lead to children not running away from school, humming in the embrace of vices, but finding full meaning in schooling because they will be sure that after completion, they will be waiting for work, wages, apartment, the possibility of raising healthy offspring. So, to recap: removing the causes that, to the greatest extent, have led and brought the children and youth astray, will create conditions for a return to the right path, which, I hope and convinced, is the wish of all of us MPs, but also of society in general. In the end, one recommendation, gentlemen, for all of us-- gentlemen, let's look the children in the eyes occasionally because they are the mirror of the soul. Will we be able to withstand their view? If we endure their view, we will know that our conscience is clear. I'm afraid, and I'm sure many of us would look down, or they wouldn't be able to take that look. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7437	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7438	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I take this bill on the protection of minors above all as one idea that what is most dear, which is our favorite protection against all of these vices. Whether we're ready to provide that protection or not, that's one question. The government of the Republic of Serbia does much to make these vices appear in Serbia. The abolition of the Ministry of Sports and Youth and the adoption of a restrictive set of tax laws, from taxing everything that is necessary for children and children's age, to reducing the payment of social benefits, suggests that many children will respond to these vices. On the other hand, we have a sudden phenomenon of advertising what needs to be prevented in this country. We need to strictly sanction cigarette advertising, alcohol, and we are witnessing that at every step we can see advertising, mostly foreign cigarettes in our country. With so many panoramas and ads, our education is not going in the direction of using cigarettes, alcohol, as little as possible, but rather, the number of those who enjoy cigarettes, alcohol and drugs is increasing. Therefore, it should be suggested that all these panorama be removed from our streets and that the media be strictly prohibited from advertising both foreign and domestic cigarettes. Domestic cigarettes, i.e. Their ad, I haven't noticed, but for the sides there are, for "ronhill", "vinston", for "light strike," and for many cigarettes whose commercials are spinning on our media. Normally, there are them in our press. Then, the problem of intoxicating drugs, the problem of distribution, delivery, points out that we need to understand that drugs are one evil enjoyed by those who have the means. We're here to say that our family is quite materially weakened and that they wouldn't have the means to do so. But that's where the question arises -- who are these people who do distribution, delivery and who lure our children to use drugs. Probably in the first wave she shares free, and at the end of the chain of those dealers and criminals should be severely sanctioned and formed even a service that will remove such people, especially in front of schoolyards, so that they do not come into contact with our children and offer to try these intoxicating funds. Then, in the event of sects, the very fact that we have heard here that there are over 800 NGOs saying that these NGOs include sects. They are one evil that must also be prevented, sects banned, and not as we have cases, we read from the press, that the sports halls, which the citizens of this Serbia have made, are being given to use, so that they can spread the negative idea of sectarianism. It's one evil that needs to be arranged. I don't know if this proposal is so good, I don't think it is, but with one set of laws, we could make that problem even more sanctioned to prevent this evil. What I can tell you is that since the arrival of the NATO occupation forces in Kosovo and Metohija, from those who brought you here to power, in Kosovo and Metohija, there is a paradise for crime, for arms trafficking, for drugs, for white slaves. It's all shared and can use it as much as anyone will, in whatever amount they want. This is what these, allegedly peacekeeping forces from the peace mission, brought, not only to Serbs, but to all who live in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, I would like to address Mrs Matkovic, Minister, that her remarks to me were inappropriate, that we had been discussing youth issues for two days and that it would be more effective if we had postponed this debate and that we had paid those funds for youth education. I was just thinking that she could, not for two days, but two weeks debates to lead on her bill proposals, where she could only say once that she would inform us - all of what you're interested in, it would all be arranged by the Serbian government, and in order not to lose two weeks, we would try to arrange the tobacco damage programmes, alcohol and drugs. That is why I find your objection inappropriate, because it is Parliament who should be discussing all categories of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7439	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already said, MPs of the SRS, on many occasions, that we are not defending this law because this law is very good, but because the subject -- the protection of minors, is very important. I cannot understand that it is irrelevant to protect minors from the use of cigarettes and other tobacco products, from the use of alcohol, from the use of narcotics, from the consumption of products with pornographic content, etc., which this law somehow tries to solve. I can't even understand that it's settled by existing laws, because, apart from the Law on Social Care for Children, it's only been settled by sanctions. You're saying it's settled by criminal law, the Law of Public Order and Peace, the Law of Criminal Penalty, the Code of Criminal Procedure. These are all repressive laws. You don't protect minors with repression. The minors protect themselves by what you have abolished - you have abolished the Ministry of Youth and Sports, you have abolished youth and sports programs and put them in the jurisdiction of an incompetent person. They don't protect themselves by taking minors out into the streets. The minors are protected by taking them from the streets to sports halls, sports courts, cultural institutions. You don't take minors to demonstrations, you take them to theaters. That's what protects minors. The abolition of the ministry, and the abolition of all programmes, which were done in the ministry, has made one mile to protect minors insufficiently. When using cigarettes and other tobacco products, there is a great struggle that the king, who abdicated, replaces the other king from your ranks, with the use of alcohol you have made customs and alcohol available, in the case of intoxicating drugs and drugs, there may be some repairs, because you have introduced the participation of drugs, and the drugs will be difficult to come by, but the drugs are still easy to get. Staying in places where there can be a threat to the physical safety of minors, which is all the places you've been taking and still taking minors, then, in the influence of religious sects, the relatives of your movement are members of the Moon's sect.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7441	Please, Mr. Vuchurovic, keep an eye on the terms you use on the qualifications you give.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7442	I'm talking about Mr. Milan Panic, it's common knowledge, that's what your press wrote about, I'm not talking about anyone else. He boasts about it. It's not any disqualification.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7443	You mentioned some member of the movement, you made an adjudication to the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. So not only are you speaking out of the agenda, but you're giving qualifications, grades that really don't have a basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7444	Sir, I'm reading from here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7445	I don't care where you read from, I care what you read.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7446	I'm reading the law. It says, "The impact of individuals, groups or organizations, which, by their actions, harm the psychophysical health of minors." You are very zealous in warning the MPs of the SRS. They must have threatened you yesterday, so you didn't warn Mr Petrovic once.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7447	Mr. Vuchurovic, we're not discussing this at all, I warned you, you go on. Here you go. We're not leading the controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7448	He talked about everything for five minutes, except the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7449	We're not leading the controversy, please report to the Rules of Procedure, if you need anything, continue the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7450	Either have the same criteria, the same arches to everyone, or don't, really, run sessions that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7451	Your time is up. The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7452	Dear President, Ms Matkovic, honourable MPs, I cannot be surprised that someone here in the Assembly can and has the right to say that they have no right to propose a law. I realized that democracy implies the right to speak, to talk and all that. Therefore, if I am able to make a law, I will propose it, and it should be understood that all MPs have opportunities, rights and duties, according to their abilities, knowledge and opportunities to contribute to the Assembly that it is to be done properly. On the other hand, let us not fear the youth that this law is merely against youth. I can agree with you that we have to work on two fronts -- one front is preventive, which will probably be done in the ministry, through the protection and care of children, through the Ministry of Education, etc. and all institutions, meaning, family, school, society in general, television, etc. That's the preemptive part. But, I'm sorry, there must be another part, which does not legally apply to children again, but tells what is the obligation of parents, guardians, society, and one who deals with such an occupation, not to allow or exceed certain powers. We claim here - everything is regulated by the laws. Yesterday I took a look at the Constitution of Serbia. I don't see there that this law is contrary, that there is no right to religion. Everyone has, and in this law everyone has, but if I say so, the "Deathing Sun" sect, when you meet to have a student come to you under any circumstances in the "Deathing Sun", where there are some rich, not poor, or some science doctors, or poets. We now have a situation that will pull out one order, the number that will be struck, to commit suicide at some point. Now, and if we sanction that part, then there's no saying that any of the citizens, any of us MPs, would want to be against it. We do not sanction what does not endanger the physical and spiritual being of a young man or a citizen. This law has, and it needs to sanction, anything that would point in that direction. Since I'm working with kids, I'm not gonna say that all the kids have fallen asleep. Far from it. We have a trend towards some manners that do not contribute to healthy youth, that this trend in the last year and a half has increased when it comes to drugs. We defend ourselves here by poverty. We say Europe is rich. If she's rich, why do rich people use drugs? On the other hand, you're saying now that alcoholism shouldn't be prevented? A student who finished his job as a waiter can't get a job in Australia until he's 18, can't work where alcohol is sold. So if we put that kind of ban on a grown-up, I don't see it pointing towards youth. I don't see that this law is directed against youth, but it creates obligations both for parents and guardians, it creates obligations and for those involved in traffic. (President: Time. ) Look at all the magazines, on the front page of "Express policy" is a naked woman and so on, pornography. Are we going to see if we can regulate all that, or are we going to make it available to a child when he is 11 or 12 years old? I urge that we here in the Assembly do not change the thesis. This law is not against youth. I said even now, prevention -- yes, everyone at this work together, all MPs in their midst, no opposition or power, but all together. Second of all, why didn't you offer a better proposal than that to regulate that part of the segment, without that crime that's in certain laws, so let's back it up? We are all equal here, regardless of opposition or position. Once that part of the charge is interrupted in this congregation building if anyone offers anything. He can argue that he's not well. To take the opportunity to thank Mrs. Matkovic, who delivered the material, but still, the bill is the bill. We'll talk somewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7453	The word has a folk MP Rajko Baralic, followed by Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, distinguished Mrs. Matkovic, esteemed journalists, the right to be a bill promoter is regulated by the Constitution, by law and by our Rules of Procedure. The right to propose legislation is by parliaments of autonomous provinces, the government of the Republic of Serbia, 15,000 citizens and every MP. This is what honors every messenger of the people. So don't dispute anyone's right to be a bill promoter. So to those who have faced the argument of this species, I simply draw attention to what it really is. Why is the law of the SPS at this point and is it political marketing? All the political party representatives do, with a clear intention of proposing what will make better solutions for citizens, among other things, is a bit of political marketing, as the political marketing is also an argument offered by the majority MPs, that the law is not accepted. If we set that thing up like that, we have no reason to poison ourselves. The assembly speaker, among other things, is a bit of a place where political parties fight politically. And we don't have to argue with anyone between us. Also, there is no reason to say that in the past ten years an ambience has been created to raise the forms of social pathology to this unfortunate level that they are at today, because, if we look at things in reverse analogy, then countries with a long democratic tradition, with a large national income, those countries of which some of the political parties, which here today are participating in power, draw original democracy as a elemental one, have this problem on a higher level, for decades and without any prospect of being solved for years to come. Some serious institutions in the world, serious political institutes, the rise in democracy and democracy of one society, including, unfortunately, the price and the level of decadence in that society, to which the criminalization of this society and many others has been committed, which, unfortunately, is a tribute that we pay to that kind of civilization that is sometimes ideal for other things that we seek, but it carries risks that we all sincerely hope to oppose. This law, as some colleagues from other political parties have said here, is not the model that repression needs social pathology to bring down to the lowest possible extent. Anyone who said that said that, said no arguments and not honest enough and malice. We can say whether the solutions of good or bad are offered, we can comment on any provision of this law, we can face arguments whether the bill is in accordance with the Constitution and some other laws, but already said one DOS MP, that this thing can, and he doesn't think it has to, be solved by a single norm. We need to agree on what the criterion is when we pass laws. (President: Time. Some have challenged the law by being repressive. Every norm has a sanction. That standard that doesn't have sanctions isn't a norm. I don't think the problem we have can be solved by a law like this, but one area that hasn't been arranged by one or another law can be arranged. So I ask you and I urge you to support this legal proposal of the SPS and thus show that what you respect as an obstruction, do not do it here today. It implores me that over 60 DOS MPs faced arguments with the proposings, the MPs of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7455	The word is Mr. Cholic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to advertise on this occasion the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 211, which decidently states: "After the verification of the mandate has been carried out, a special legislation shall be issued to the MP. The legislation shall state the immunity rights and other rights which the MP may exercise on the basis of the legitimacy. "Unfortunately, last night around 9:00 in the centre of Smederev something happened to me that I would not wish for any of you, not one MP, regardless of our different political options and different political definitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7457	Since it happened to you in Smederev, it has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I guess that's where...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7458	I was arrested by the department of Serbia's MUP...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7459	It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's only to comment on the work of the MUP...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7460	Arrested, detained, scythened, plastered and protested for such behaviour, Smederev police, will glue what we have always glued (The sticker - DOS is the worst - which the National Assembly secretary then freaked out. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7461	Mr. Colic, I give you a warning and I hope there will be no objection from your colleagues that I do so contrary to the Rules of Procedure. No throwing, please. The word comes from MP Dragan Tomic, and after that, MP Borisvoje Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right on this bill, we have an opportunity to see how we treated your legal proposals, and how you refer to the proposals tabled by the opposition political parties. We dealt mainly with the treatment of the law, mostly professionally, speaking of the lack of such proposals and of what was not well done. In all these cloned discussions, which have been going on for the second day, the only topic that is going on at this moment and during yesterday's debate -- how to spit out the promoter. And in the most unusual ways, lamenting from Hitler to Clinton, on a variety of subjects. We have not heard in any part of the discussion of any critics of this bill, what is proposed, with only one recognition and a finding, that definitely in Serbia various religious sects act, that Serbia is threatened with drugs, threatened with various pressures on youth, that there is mental manipulation of Serbian youth, that there are various other forms of deviating behaviour. Although there are precisely a number of members in the legislation that regulate the way, form and fight certain causes affecting Serbian youth, there are no models and ways to prevent it. There's a general threat here, and you're saying that someone is repressing Serbian youth with this law. That's not true. It's absolutely just an environment that creates the conditions that this is happening to our children. When you talk about your kids, don't talk like we don't have kids. We have children, we have families, we respect our own, and our family's neighbors and children. Therefore, it cannot be the right of DOS to love Serbian children without the others in this assembly loving all children of this Serbia. As a privileged right, this does not belong to anyone, but belongs to the Serbian family and every family living in this Serbia, in this way we should and treat each other. When it comes to law enforcement, only three educational measures are imposed. Educational measures primarily serve as a well - meaning advice to families, parents, and children, to draw attention to the deviant behavior of children or to the impact of the environment in which they are located. We can talk in various ways, we came from various parts of Serbia, but we know that in every city and every settlement in Serbia, objects of different contents affecting these deviating behaviours are recognizable. There is a growing number of families and parents who can resist, in a special way, combating these deviant behaviors. It seems to me that we skipped one of the most important remarks of this law, and that's a ban on going out after 12 o'clock at night, until five o'clock in the morning. We know that weekends around Serbia bring the following: one part of the children are stuck in a hospital of alcohol, the other because of drugs, the third one on the roads, and at exactly twelve o'clock a.m. to five o'clock a.m., with the fact of the drug, with the fact that alcohol and everything that is offered to them. When we talk about the practical application of that legislation, we want to warn this that the existing legislation has not been improved. If we have a critical tone of time in which we were in power, including your time, gentlemen, it seems to me that it has only increased the trend in that direction. We're talking about leniency, you're talking about the relaxation of Serbian youth, like we don't have to get them under control, that we don't say anything to them, that we don't react in any way to these events. (President-in-Office Natasa Micic: Time.) Wait a minute. In the end, this practical application of this law is just aimed at warning, to distract all segments of this society to take care of how to protect the Serbian youth. You don't suggest how to do it, you don't make suggestions, you don't have suggestions. You treat this law in an incorrect, unfair, unprincipled and unquality way. Give an expert assessment of this bill. And finally, to say one more sentence, for some DOS young men who came out of this pay phone, you are not gentlemen looking at examples of Serbian young men, Serbia is full of real Serbs and patriots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7463	Mr. Tomic, I give you a warning because you have offended the previous exhibitors. The word has been given by the MP, Mr Jovanovic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7464	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the measure of our value is an election result. This value, of course, is not constant, it is variable, but I think we will agree, despite the political differences, that citizens are capable enough to assess the extent to which they are, among other things, the moral quality of each of us who asked for their support. As far as the proposed law is concerned, I tried to point to two sides in my first presentation which I think are very important and which talk about the character of DOS and the quality of the proposed law. In fact, almost two months ago, without any hesitation, by voting on the agenda, we expressed our willingness to discuss two proposed SPS laws and one proposed SRS law, and one request for the replacement of the minister who submitted the SRS parliamentary group. This is how we respected not only our fellow MPs from the opposition, but also the citizens who elected them, because we consider the opposition to the representatives of our society's work. In such a procedure, we can see a big difference from what was the rule of conduct and the model of paralemntarism in Serbia that created the parliamentary majority of today's opposition over the past 10 years. One hand can count the laws that the then power has put before this parliament, respecting the opposition's proposal, and there is not a single law that the government has passed, except for one law that has previously completely destroyed by amendments. As regards the very law on the protection of minors, which was submitted by the SPS parliamentary group, I said it was a law dealing with the consequences in a bad way, given that the provisions are sanctioned by some other laws and, among other things, the procedures mentioned in this law. I will quote to you the Law on Public Order and Peace, Article 2, in which public order and peace, within the meaning of this law, is defined as a harmonised state of mutual relations between citizens, created by their behaviour in public place and by the functioning of bodies and organisations in public life, in order to ensure the rights of minors to protection. I will quote to you Article 8 of that law, which was passed back in 1992: "Whoever gambles or settles the room for gambling will be punished by fine or imprisonment. Whoever is gambling with a minor or steps out of the room, or otherwise enables a minor to gamble, will be punished by a prison sentence. Anyone who spends alcohol on the spot gives an alcoholic drink, apparently a drunk person or a minor who has not turned 16 years of age, will be punished with fines or fines. Anyone who commits prostitution or enters the premises for prostitution will be punished by prison for up to 30 days. If a minor steps out of the room for prostitution, he'll be punished by prison. The parent or guardian of a minor, who commits an offence referred to in Articles 6 to 19 of this Act, with the exception of a violation of Article 6 of this Act, or Article 11 of this Act, if an offence has been committed or is the result of his or her failure, due supervision of a minor, is possible, and has been able to conduct such supervision, shall be punished by a fine or sentence of imprisonment. "It is the Law on Public Order and Peace, which fully defines the area of sanctions that are specified in this law on the protection of minors. As for the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, Article 128 sanctions the area that is re-sanctioned by the SPS bill, for example in Article 128, says: "Whoever, without the prescribed professional training, is subject to treatment or medical assistance, will be punished by a one-year prison and fine. "Article 132.: "Whoever, in a catering or another liquor store, who sells alcoholic beverages, serves a minor who has not turned 16 with a hot alcohol drink, or serves it with another alcoholic drink, in quantities that cannot lead to the drinking of that person, will be punished with fines or prisons for up to six months. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's criminal law, Article 251, states: "He who recruits, encourages and lures women's persons into prostitution or who in any way participates in the sale of women's faces to another, for prostitution, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to five years. Whoever manufactures or sells solutions, publicly exhibits or, for sale, acquires, or holds files, images and other objects, which are severely offended by morality, will be fined and jailed for up to one year. "It is about a member who regulates the production and distribution of pornographic files, or sanctions. As far as I'm concerned... (President: Time. ) Please count me in another five minutes and that's my last call. As for unauthorized production...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7465	Mr. Jovanovic, I apologize, but this is your third call. You called twice yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7466	I picked up the lines.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7467	No, I've got a report here. You've been calling twice. I'm sorry. Mr. Borisvoje Drakulović has the word... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Third time? No, you've used it twice, you've used it once, you've used it twice, and you've used it once. You used yesterday, twice you, and once a wolf, I have notes, I have everything here. The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Drakulovic, and the next one registered for the discussion is Mr. Vlasimir Budimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7468	The Honorable Presidency, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I have come to my attention, although I have been thinking whether or not I should report back, to support this law on the protection of minors, for the simple reason I often repeat myself, and now I will say it. I come from a small environment, I was convinced that in these small environments there can be no negative phenomena, such as drugs, prostitution, alcohol to the extent that it really took hold. In a small environment, such as a municipality that did not even have a full 16,000 inhabitants, things happen like in the middle of Belgrade. It happens that girls from 13 and 14 years of age are wandering the streets, dealing with, I have to say, and that's ugly, prostitution, using drugs, syringes after their disco parties are, to a large extent. It's a lot of coincidence that this would all be an accident. Ten years, and more, sanctions, the world has come upon us. Why? Clearly, when money disappears, problems arise, drinking out, drugs, just run away from the problem. I'm aware that the strongest education is the one given by the family. Someone here has already said that, and I'm going to say, I raised two kids who, neither use tobacco, let alone, don't give God, alcohol and drugs, and I think that really the most family in it can contribute. If there are no sanctions, and there must be, for everything that happens, and those who do, or contribute, because various bosses, newly-communicated today, are pimping out girls, bringing them drugs, and thus, uh, getting into these phenomena that are certainly worrying all of us as parents, and that will certainly damage our entire future and youth of Serbia. If we laugh at these things and make fun of each other, if we fight, it's very ugly. Now, just one review, I've never known hate anywhere, I don't like hate most, and here I can't understand, and in yesterday, and in many other days, in the eyes of people who appear here, discussing, such hatred and such outs of hate, we show each other like we're enemies, which I'm sure isn't, because when we meet here, in front of the bar and in the lobby, we say hello nicely, and here we throw the ugliest words that anyone can throw at someone. I would ask all of you to pass this law and end the hatred that we direct from the pay phone, and in front of each other's payphones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7469	The word has been issued by MP Vlasimir Budimirovic. What did I say? I'm sorry, then Budimovic. After him, MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7470	I'll watch to be as brief as possible. There is a so-called "Kruševec" in Kruševec. VP House for raising minors or the famous Grey House. You've probably watched that TV show and the movie, and I can tell you that it's a home capacity of about 700 protégés who's been, and it's still, in use. It is about the following: we want to create one law, and legal provisions already exist, as Mr Cedomir Jovanovic said. There is a legal regulation, and the problem is in the application of it. I mentioned to the Grey House for the reason he was, I don't know, overbooked. He had 700 and 800 protégés, and today he has about 120. The reason is not certain that in these 10 years we have become much more legal states, it is actually that the application of the law of the existing legislation has not been implemented properly in these 10 years. The main goal in solving this problem, I now speak as a special educator, I see in providing conditions for the life of minors. I think it's much better that our youth has organizations like Skautska, such as the Fairial Alliance, that their families are calm and stable, to find pleasure within their family, that society takes care of them by providing them with a normal and peaceful life. "No fruit" is always the cutest fruit. The highest percentage of alcohol was during prohibition, and all that was banned from youth is a counterreaction. We give them better conditions for everyday life, and the law will not be unnecessary. One of the basic things about this is the introduction of religion into schools. The main goal of my presentation and date was to deny Mr. Ivkovic's claim that DOS is against the introduction of religious teaching. I can tell you, here is the record from the session of the Educational Committee of the Serbian Parliament, where the Educational Committee has given its support to the introduction of religious teaching and religion into our schools. So the information wasn't accurate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7471	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7472	Ladies and gentlemen, in my hands is the minutes of the Committee on Education, but the amended and updated minutes, which will only be considered at the next session. Why? Because it is full of truth: that it was the first session of the Committee, which included three proposals for the Committee's conclusions and the various views of the Minister of Faith in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Education and Sports in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. During the vote at the first meeting, the majority of the DOS were against introducing religious science to schools, and the Socialists advocated and supported the introduction of religious science into schools. The second session was then held at which Gašo Knezevic objected to the report and on the basis of his objection, amendments were made to the minutes, which are yet to be adopted at the new session of the Education Committee, and it is possible that there has been a consolidation of positions in DOS in the meantime, and it is possible that this minutes will be adopted and that the DOS will also support the introduction of religion into school.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7473	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric, and after that, the last registered MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7474	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we are talking yesterday and today about the Bill on the Protection of Juveniles and we have only one reverse picture that you've been talking about here for a long time, which is that when MPs of the real opposition, and not what you call yourself, talk about government legal projects, abuse a pay phone and tell other stories when they talk about a legal project, but we are witnesses, especially yesterday, that the law was least talked about at a pay phone. Some things were said about the SPS, sentences and convictions and how, because someone belongs to the SPS, there's no need to suggest anything, so we certainly can't agree on that, because nobody normal and smart, who's still a parent, can't say it's wrong to regulate the issue of using cigarettes, alcohol, drugs. We'll also agree that some of the things that are numbered here are largely family to keep an eye on it and that society gives some frame. We'll have to agree that some of these things that need to be defined are actually local self-government decisions, especially the time of work of a bar and a bar. We remember all together that in most cities, especially large, in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica, Kragujevac, Nis, you have been the government for 4-5 years. What Mr Batic was saying the other night has nothing to do with common sense because in these things you are as responsible as we are, because that thing was at the decision of local self-government, and there you were in power. So you can't say that it's just us who did it where we kept the local government, and where you thought there was no guilt. There's one thing we'd have to agree on. Those who have a similar number of years as I know stories that our old man came from the car to the dark at home, and then we know that we had some obligations to get home by half a dozen or ten, especially girls, and we guys had another half-hour coming for fun, and now it's coming home in the morning by the first bus because it starts at midnight. I think the state has to take a general decision and that would be the obligation of local self-government, because maybe in some local self-governments, the right moves have been made, but if the right move is taken in Novi Sad, and it's not done in the surrounding municipalities, in Temerino, Beocino, then the children will come from Novi Sad to those municipalities and then we haven't done anything again. Because no one here can claim that it's very good for children to go out like this, that at 11:00 they start getting ready, at 12 to go out, and they come home at 5:00 in the morning. It must be defined at the level of the Serbian state and it cannot be a matter of goodwill in municipalities, because they can't solve it even when they have a good will. I was already talking here when there was a question about children, and so was Mrs. Matkovic here, that if she hadn't already made it somewhere else, why at least in this area that treats children we haven't experienced as a proposal for reform law, which you of DOS have been announcing for months. At least in one area, if it hasn't arrived in some others yet. It's probably a priority for these kids, and it's supposed to be reform law first, so give him his mother's age, make one and give us directions, so let's make it a Resava school. Let's get this over with, make it a little bit better. The Resav school knows what it is, you copy it from someone who's already done it and who already knows it. As long as there were stories of love and attention to children, my beautiful friends, love and attention to children don't cost a penny. It's just a parent's relationship to children, and some other things cost money. Love and attention don't depend on the material status of parents and let's not look for an alibi where they don't exist. We're either parents who love and look after their children or we don't. Money allows us to make life better, but love and attention don't cost five pairs and don't tell stories about it. I end up in one sentence, here at this pay phone, all the time, when you walk out of the DOS, you just talk about what the Socialists were doing in the past, so what can the government say that comes after you, that you were just talking about what they were doing before you, and you didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7475	The word is attended by MP Hranislav Peric and last reported by Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of talking about the law on the protection of minors, but a lot of MPs participated in the debate and was least told about the law. The opposition MPs made arguments that required this law and that it is necessary to bring it for the sake of Serbian citizens, independent of which the parties are from. On the other hand, the ruling party's MPs spoke, and according to their proposals, this law should be rejected. It should not be accepted because it was proposed by SPS MPs. You don't have to be angry. One of the previous speakers has already spoken of MPs having the right to propose laws and there is no one to be angry with. Serbian citizens will give the best assessment whether this law is necessary or not, and the best assessment will be given by parents who have this problem in the family. It only takes one evening at any emergency station in the Serbian area, so you will see all the interventions and who most often gets help. Mr Batic, the minister of justice, also spoke about this law, and he criticised the previous government -- that it is guilty that there are many cafes, traffickers, casinos and the like in cities. He forgets that in most of the cities in Serbia, during the previous period, you were in power and that city administrations decided on trades, casinos and the like. In the end, I understand why you're criticizing this law and it won't be accepted. Because it doesn't fit the European environment, where drug use is on the rise. Because we might resent the West for cutting off a market where they can sell drugs. Perhaps they would also resent the Albanian mafia, which is the most powerful in the world in drug trafficking. Finally, knowing that you will vote against this law and will not be adopted, I suggest that the Government propose a law to the Assembly on the protection of minors from those who abuse them for the sake of their own benefit, and we will vote for such a law regardless of what people are used in these affairs and from which parties they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7477	According to the Rules of Procedure - Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7478	Mr. President, in your absence, the Rules of Procedure have been injured to the detriment of the SRS parliamentary club, and I mean to the harm of Mr. Jovanovic, but I was not so persistent as to investigate whether he was also deceived by the speaker and the secretary of the Assembly. I am. I've been told that the MP's group has used the right to three calls. In accordance with Article 88(5) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 88(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. But that's not true, Mr. The chairman who replaced you and the secretary of the assembly lied to me and gave me no right to go out for a pay phone. I've had stenographic notes in front of me since the day before yesterday afternoon, when this law entered the procedure, a bill on the protection of minors. He first spoke to Mr. Ivkovic, and then I, stenogram number 18/3, when I asked for the word, and then I spoke, stenogram number 20/2, replica, just to see whom, Mr. Jovanovic, I think, yes, so I spoke, stenogram number 21/3, replica Gordani Matkovic. You've always pointed out that it's a replica. Well, I was saying, a stenogram number 4/1 of yesterday, a replica again, I mean Mr. Ivkovic, but it doesn't matter, after all, it's not my place to determine. And once again I spoke on that part, the five-third stenogram, the replica again, someone was talking about dinosaurs. Well, then I was saying-- Mrs. Marinkovic's replica, stenogram number 9/2, and I think that's it. Once again, stenogram number 22/3, replica Marijana Risticevic. Mr. President, I haven't spoken twice, as the chairman said, and added another announcement to Mr. Vukic. I was talking once about the law and Mr. Vukic is once about the law, so I'm asking you to understand that. I warned you there was a lot going on here. Now that you're here. But before, only when you weren't there. In particular, discrimination against MPs or SRS parliamentary groups. So now please, I'll come back while he's talking to the next person you called, to check in the service whether I was right or wrong, and ask after the next speaker to get my word on the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7479	There's nothing weird going on. There may be some oblivion. I gave you my word and you used twice the time. So it's not about the number of calls, it's about the length of exposure. And I suggest you read the stenographic notes of that first report yourself, so if you can read it in five minutes, and I'm telling you that you'll read it in 10, how long the exposure took, you'll see that I'm right. So, the first exposure you combined, then Mr. Vukic spoke, and that was actually the third reporting of the representatives of the SRS. That's all it's about. Not about the number of calls for words, but about the merger of the first two... Not you, you spoke twice. [[Comment by Ambassador Nikolic is not heard]] Mr. Vucic, in your absence, has taken advantage of the third right. Maybe he didn't let you know. But that was the third. I'm taking these notes very neatly. It was the first time you ever hooked up. That's what you forgot. As Mr. Ivkovic combined, he had two reports on the congregation records and has the right to another one. Mr. Jovanovic has used his three rights. You'll see by the length of the note that I'm right, if by anything else. Now the word has been made by MP Zarko Obradovic. No more registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7480	Dear Mr President, the Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the Government, the essence of the Bill on the Protection of Minors, which has submitted the SPS, is to protect minors from endangering their physical, mental, social and spiritual health and development. The law treats an extremely important category of Serbian citizens and issues of general social interest. The proposer's intention is to create as healthy an environment as possible in which minors, given the sensitivity of the age in which they grow up and develop, will be able to express their personality and creativity as young people possess. For this reason, the law also contains criminal provisions only for those persons, and these are certainly not minors, which lead young people to drug use, alcohol, use of weapons or those who run sects and thus destroy the young population. For minors, the law provides only educational measures, which are already provided for by law, which are - reproof, enhanced parental supervision, enhanced custody of guardians and refer to specialised institutions. The issue of the protection of minors is not one political group, party and institution. It's a question of society, of all its relevant factors. A question that cannot be limited to the time of the rule of any political option, but rather a continuing problem that must be addressed by every society and every responsible state. The same applies to a system of social values, for which most or all MPs agree, that there have been changes, most recently in the last decade, which is no wonder, given everything that has been happening in the last decade in the former Yugoslavia, either in the light of the impact of these developments on SRJ and Serbia, but also in the events within Serbia and Yugoslavia itself. In the past decade, we have moved not only from one-party to a multi-party system, but we have had several civil wars in the environment, then 700-800 thousand refugees who have found their second home here, almost decades of sanctions, and as the crown of all the armed aggression of NATO against our country that lasted 78 days. In such conditions social values have also been created, so it is no wonder that there has been a certain degree of their devaluation in our society. It is logical that the responsibility of the authorities in forming a system of values is overwhelming, but other factors cannot be avoided, which have shaped our reality. First of all, I mean the so-called. The international community, what it did to Serbian citizens, especially young people, but cannot forget the influence of the opposition at the time, which called as part of its political struggle for civil disobedience, for leaving school, for the boycott of teaching. It all directly affected the collapse of the authority of the state and of the social values themselves. The system of values is something to build, with arguments. It is not logical to criticise school as aging, decadent, something that belongs to the past, while at the same time being proud of numerous young mathematicians, chemists and other people, who worldwide win the most important prizes in many competitions. The criticism of the law should be devoted to its content, not to the Proposer. The issue of the protection of minors deserves a general social consensus and a responsible approach to society in its resolution. The problem certainly cannot be solved repressively, with an increased number of police officers, as we heard yesterday from some MPs of the congregation's majority, but with constant education of young people, social development and the normative arrangements of this issue. For these reasons, the draft law on the protection of minors should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7481	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7482	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in my third announcement, I would like to give some summary of the answer to everything that has been said by the MPs of the parliamentary majority, in the circumstances of the law. On the law itself, I must say that there have been very few suggestions or objections, even I must say that I have the impression that some dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament have not read the law in general. I think we've made it perfectly clear that this isn't about repressive law when it comes to minors. If he is repressive, he is exclusively repressive to those who cite minors into the plight, alcoholism, or recruit them into sects. I also think that we've made it clear that there are no repetitive legal solutions here, if there are similar solutions, then there are additions to legal solutions, but there are completely new solutions, especially when something that has been completely devastating in the last three or four years in these areas, even through some NGOs, it's the presence of a sect. The sect's problem has absolutely not been addressed by our legislation. I think we've made it perfectly clear that this is all about criminal penalties for those who lead minors to what destroys their future, which destroys their psychophysical structure. But we've made it clear that we're aware that the new criminal law should cover those categories that are listed here, with even more severe penalties. About the Constitution of Serbia, we have also cleared up, although today we have the opportunity to see in certain media that they state the lies, which are being told here at the pay phone and which, those who have spoken them, have admitted, when they are told what they are. But we'll talk about the media and the transmissions next time. As for the Constitution of Serbia, the 41st is a member of this people's pride: "The freedom of religion, which includes freedom of belief, confession of faith and religious rituals, is guaranteed. Religious communities are separate countries and are free to perform religious affairs and religious rituals." However, article 44 says, "It is forbidden to act in order to violently change the Constitution of established order, to violate the territorial integrity and independence of the Republic of Serbia, to violate the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and the rights of man and citizen", (and the most important right of man and citizen is to normal conditions of growth) "to challenge and encourage national, racial and religious intolerance and hatred". Accordingly, Article 15 of this law states: "Those types of religious learning or its application that are threatened and physically injured" (do I tell you to ritual some sects in Belgrade's territory, in Belgrade's heart, in Vracara, how are they carried out? ) "spiritual and social health and the development of minors". And it is particularly underlines: "Under religious learning, or by its application under Article 1, it means propagating religious intolerance, religious and national hatred and exclusion, violation of the interests of public and personal security, public order, health and morals, the role of family and the protection of other people's rights and freedoms." Does anyone in this congregation intend to be against such a member and against such a commitment? And finally, about the system of values, we heard indeed one extraordinary presentation from our fellow MP. I am truly very pleased with this exposure, and I absolutely want to say the same - in the last 10 years they have broken systems of values, and that is true, and my colleague, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, is right - for the disturbed systems of values, surely, with full right should bear even greater responsibility for the one who was in power. But let's think about what disrupted these systems of value, what affected them, so many forget where the site of the international community, which destroyed the country in which we lived quite normally, who created first and second-row citizens in Slovenia and Croatia, where the place of the opposition at the time, which called for civil disobedience, which called for non-payment, if you will, and electricity, and phones, and the same one that today introduces taxes and taxes and charges on the outstanding debts. Don't people, this country won't come anywhere, if we want to get together all the time -- what's been the last 10 years, and that a junior MP, who's still a second year of study, and he's approaching the 30th year, calls 15 times a man, who's a regular professor of university, for things that don't seem to be. Therefore, dear gentlemen, this country can only go forward if it is looked forward. Looking back is an expression of impotence and ignorance of what's going on. An emissary, from the O.R., demands the right to the final word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7483	The closing word is after the amendment, and we won't have the amendments, so you practically can't take advantage of that right, and he used it first and in the course of the debate. According to the Rules of Procedure, the final word in the Rules of Procedure shall be given after the examination of the amendments has been completed, i.e. after the end of the debate in particular. (Employee Ivkovic, from the post: And if there is no debate in particular? ) It is determined by voting. Well, you can't in any way interpret that it's a provision that's restrictive to opposition MPs, because 99% of the cases will end up being given by a proposing representative, and that will be the government. He's got Mrs. Matkovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7484	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I would like first of all to say that my remark yesterday was, first of all, that we really, instead of talking about the protection of minors, spent a lot of time yesterday, a lot of time on some other subjects. What I can personally say is that I think the biggest gain from all of this is that we've opened many topics, which are a problem and which are really important, and none of us here can deny that drugs are a problem, that they've entered schools, or anyone's trying to deny it, that the problem is sects and their operation, means that the problem is all the things that have been brought here. I hope no one will deny that there's not a single man here who doesn't care about protecting minors. In fact, I am so sorry that much time was spent yesterday discussing other topics. So, what are the reasons why our ministry felt that this law, as proposed, was not acceptable to us? The first reason is that primates in it have criminal and legal provisions that are not directed towards minors. That's right. But criminal - legal provisions, which are related to criminal proceedings, will not produce results, in our confidence, in the same way that they do not produce results or produce results in the same way and to the same extent that they give those provisions already contained in criminal laws. There's one part of the provisions that this law regulates that some other laws don't regulate. First of all, I'm going to try to respond to that part about regulating certain things that this law provides to be regulated. For me, first of all, it's a question of sects that's been opened here many times. I will answer that argument with only one remark, and that is -- can we allow one legal provision to protect minors from the functioning of pseudo-religious or pseudo-healing communities, without sanctioning their operation when it comes to overall functioning? In other words, tomorrow I'll be afraid of such an action, like all of us, and when our child is 19, 20 years old. It's one question that's unregulated, essentially unregulated or inadequately regulated. Almost all these other questions are regulated by criminal law. What I think should remain positive for all of us with these two days of sitting, is that, regardless of what the social-economic environment is affecting and what is certainly affecting the position of the family, there are obviously some additional things that are important and that we all need to take care of, which are related to what is developing in the long term and which cannot be regulated by law, but can be regulated by our individual activities. It's education, it's those activities that can engage young people in other ways and reroute them, not be exposed to all of these negative influences. If we can get at least a fraction of that to take, as an impression from these sessions, into our local environments and as a result of all of this, we're organizing some action, then these two days won't be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7485	Anybody else answer for a word? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: You think there is enough debate? And you don't think he did, after a straight 61 MP who took part in the debate. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: I don't think so, because I haven't spoken three times. ( ) This would make a significant contribution to clarifying the matter. 60 MPs participated in the debate, and we had 23 replicas. I'm finishing the initial search. I put the draft law on the protection of minors in principle. For 44, against 134 abstentions, there was no vote of five, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the bill in principle. As the draft law is not adopted in principle, the procedure is suspended and the draft law and the Government is hereby notified, as referred to in Article 133(4). Rules of Procedure. That's how we ended this agenda. We move to the 24th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON ENDS OF THE LAW ON POLYOPRIAL LAND The People's MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7486	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the previous item of the agenda is abundant with numerous debates and replicas, as the president has already mentioned, and since we have already agreed to try to end this session by Thursday, I think it would be irresponsible for both ourselves and the people who elected us, the citizens of Serbia, to start a new session Monday without ending the previous session until then. That's why I suggest that the upcoming agenda has a brief debate. It means that it should not be as provided for in the Rules of Procedure - 10 minutes, but that the debate lasts five minutes, according to Article 88(1). A Rules of Procedure, which allows us to do so. Thank you. (The People's MP Alexander Vukic answered the floor, according to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7487	Do not abuse the announcement of the Rules of Procedure, I warn you in advance. It can only be as a second proposal. This is not a debate. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: You can solve it with a gun. That's the next phase. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7488	You said the next phase was to use a gun to solve things. It's really amazing. I've come by the Rules of Procedure. It's your duty to give me your word. You're warning me whether I'm going to abuse something or not to abuse it, and I didn't even get out of place. If it wasn't sad, I'd be laughing. As for the draft parliamentary majority, at almost every item of the agenda this week, that the debate should be shortened for five minutes, some have suggested that it be shortened for a minute, that I'm not sure you won't accept, now I would say cut to three seconds. But maybe you'd accept that, so I won't suggest it. I'm going to suggest, as something more reasonable and normal, that the debate lasts 9 minutes 50 seconds and that we make a statement about this proposal, because it seems to me that the point we're going to talk about is something that is very important to the citizens of our country. It would be good for 60 people to participate, as it did in this agenda. I don't think we've been wasting our time, because the MP who suggested this has spoken about the protection of minors, as well as many other MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is obviously an agreement by the parliamentary majority, those who think that at any moment such a thing can be voted upon at all times to prevent opposition MPs from talking about their legal proposals as well as about proposals coming from the government of the Republic of Serbia or the parliamentary majority. That's why I call upon you not to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7489	You are still in the debate about this issue which, according to the Rules of Procedure, cannot be debated. I guess I was right when I warned you on the basis of your previous experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7490	You were wrong at all. I've been talking about the Rules of Procedure all along, and I'm trying to convince the MPs to accept my proposal, which I made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, without accepting the opposite proposal. What's the opposite of Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7491	You know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7492	It's nothing. You don't even know what's against the Rules of Procedure or any other act, but that's why you're going to do it a hundred times and because you think you can say anything without anyone else being able to answer you. We are able to answer you, but the way you run the sessions really goes beyond all measures and limits of good taste. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7493	With full seriousness, we will declare your proposal, that the debate is being held for nine minutes and fifty seconds. It's recorded as a proposal. We have two proposals, one proposal by Mr Radosavljevic, to shorten the duration of the discussion within this item of the agenda for five minutes and Mr Vukic's proposal to shorten to nine minutes and fifty seconds. I put Mr. Radosavljevic's proposal to vote. For 128, against 43, abstention one, did not vote 8, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Yesterday, the assembly said that in such cases, which are not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the first proposal, so if it gets most MPs, is adopted as accepted. It's a joint decision, and I asked if there was anyone against such a determination and whether he was objecting to the procedure and no one had answered. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which did not accept the bill, because it is the essence of the proposed solution, as it stems from the reasons for the bill, that the protection of agricultural land should be covered and the suppression, i.e. the destruction of undesirable species of plants, which is the matter governed by specific regulations, the federal Plant Protection Act and the Republic Law on the Protection of Plants against Disease and pests. I'm opening a principled search. Is the promoter answering for a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7494	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this matter covers all these laws of yours. Unfortunately, agriculture suffers great damage from weeds and others. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law and life means. Who does that life mean to? First it means life for the farmers, the paoras, for all those people who farm the land. Second, it means life for practical service. And thirdly, those people who are born on asphalt, who live in cities, who do not know what an orphan is, I do not blame them. They don't need to know. They have one common denominator, and that denominator is food. In the fight for food, what kind of food do we eat, we know that, and how should we eat? I found the constitutional basis in Article 31. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: a man has the right to protect the environment; everyone in accordance with the law is obliged to protect and improve the environment. Why is the agricultural land law and why is it a natural disaster? The law so that everyone has an obligation, material, social, and all society has a duty to help agriculture, to help the paors, to help the villagers fight the weeds and pests. Why is it an elemental accident, you're probably wondering. We know when it rains for days, then there's a flood, and the flood can go away quickly and later. An orphan has been in our fields for decades. It's spreading very fast. This orphan is at this point a major elemental accident, which cannot be eradicated in a month, two or three or a half years. What are the reasons for the adoption of this law: one of the important things is the time that affects the rapid development of weeds, because before us is the spring sowing, the start of treatment in this year is a multiple profit; stopping further spread of sorghum, destroying sorghum 25% to 30% this year; enabling quality preparation for next year. Just one example for this year. This year, 300,000 hectares of oracica or 510 acres of fertile land will not be processed. There is also a country that has been abandoned, an orphan has taken over 100 percent, and a country that at some point this year cannot be processed because of economic power. What does that mean in economic terms for this country? If you took, below average, one hectare to give birth to corn three tons, 300,000 hectares times three tons, that's 900,000 tons or 90,000 wagons. If it's an average five-ton line, it's a million-and-a-half tons of corn or 150,000 wagons. In the first case, the money was 350,000 marks, and in the second case it was 5,250,000 marks. Another example of sugar tail. If 300,000 is multiplied by 22 tonnes, it is 6,600,000 tonnes of sugar tail or cash recalculated 4,620,000 marks. If the average breed of sugar beet was 26 tonnes, it would be 7,800,000 tonnes of sugar beet or 6,000,000 marks. What are the financial resources needed to implement this law? When I was preparing this law, the cost of corn and wheat was somewhat lower. The funds and chemicals for suppressing the sorghum were somewhat lower. Anyway, I'll give you one comparison. In the next four and a half years, when a billion marks were invested, in nine to ten years 20 billion marks, this country would benefit from investments in agriculture. Is there a better investment, is there a better investment than agriculture? What's a wild orphan? Many in this congregation, and some don't even know what a wild orphan is. The wild orphan, as part of the Korean flora, has evolved today into the most powerful and dangerous Korean plant. In all our places, it is not known this catastrophic presence of a wild sorghum in our fields. With the development of our agrarian sciences, agricultural techniques and our financial capabilities, the use of herbicides has begun as an economical solution in the fight against weeds. However, an orphan like a very powerful weed sought a systematic and elaborate struggle in all farmed cultures. As long as we had in the agrarian force, we somehow fought the orphans. Today, after years of blockade and the very difficult economic situation of agriculture, we have reached the level that military production must be resolved first, only then to organise production. The most endangered social sector is because it is economically in the worst position. Its large surfaces are now the largest sources of all the problems associated with the cheese, and it is likely that 10 to 15% of these surfaces will not be harvested, although they are sown. A wild orphan is a corn plant that was introduced into our country and is being sensationalized here. The wild cheese is a Mediterranean plant, originating in Asia Minor, and has been introduced to a prehistoric age and has been completely detached in our spaces so far. Since 1969 it has started to appear more massively and spread, and today it can be found in the agrophytocenoses of Vojvodina, Swords, Montenegro, Herzegovina, Shumadija and Pomorava. The propagation and spread of wild sorghum is carried out through seeds and rissoms. The seed of the sorghum can retain its leachability in the country for up to 25 years. Seed production per plant is 8 to 12 thousand seeds. Wild cheetahs are mostly distributed in an orange layer of up to 30 centimeters deep, but the highest percentage is up to 20 centimeters deep. On the agricultural surfaces rooted in wild cheese, converted to one hectare, it is educated in the land of 12 million buds, which enables rapid and productive expansion. The largest number and maximum hardness of the surface is in southern Banat, Srem and Machvi, where there is a wild cheese at a width of 70 to 90% of the total area, while the slightly smaller representation of the wild cheese in Bačko, Pomoravlje and Šumadija. In the text, I only analyzed the hardening of the wildebeest in the agricultural areas, in central Banat, in the Ataris of Zrenjanin, in Žitište, Novi Crnja and in Novi Bece, on a total area of 226 thousand hectares. And why did I do that? Because I could get data from the institute. The assessment of hardness intensity is done by subjective squares method, and the hardening categories are as follows: wild sorghum and wild sorghum per oasis. The hardness of the wild sorghum is divided into three groups: in the first group in low intensity, it is up to 0.5 ft per square metre; the second group is in the mean intensity of one to two ft square meters; and in a strong intensity over two ft square meters. Tables 1 and 2 show the sub-areas that have been treated and which have been examined in the Institute. Practically, I only have two items for the entire Mediterranean district, which is paragraph 3 and paragraph 3c. In Zrenjanin, at 17.879 hectares, the percentage is 67.53%. The housing, at 13,600 hectares, is 68% hardening. New Nigger, at 6,163 acres, 71% of the mended. New Vienna, close to 7,000 acres, 70% of the hard work. January, at 11,600 acres, 75% is hard work. At worst, where the orphan has taken over everything, things are like this: in Zrenjanin, at 7,000 hectares the hardness is 26%; in Zitist, at 5,500 hectares, the hardness is 27%. New Black, at 1,850 acres, the hardness is 21%. New Vienna, at 1,300 hectares, the hardness is 131%. Remember, at 5,000 acres the hardness is 33%. Complex methods have been proposed, including primarily agrotechnical measures, land treatment, proper fertility, then mechanical and chemical fighting measures. In an internal survey of the Grainin Institute, with results of production in the Central Banat region for 1995, work was presented with the proposed measures to curb wild cheese. During the first months of 1996, from 25 January to 7 March, lectures were organised for individual producers in the following places: Lukićovo, Mužlja, Orlovat, Farkaždin, Tomaševac, Aradac (Zrenjanin municipality), Kumane, Bočar (Novi Becej municipality), Hetin, Jaša Tomić (Secanj municipality). One of the main accentes was put in place to chemically suppress wild cheese. Based on the results of the field tour, one approach to the solution of the problem offers for a period of four years, with respect to all agrotechnical and chemical measures of combat. Modern agricultural science, with us and in the world, has been maximum focus in recent decades on the creation of high-born varieties and hybrids, rata, vegetable and other plants. They play a significant role in exploiting the genetic potential of birth, having good agrotechnics and agrochems, protection against disease and insects, and particularly in the success of cutting weeds that greatly reduce the yield of plants. According to data reported by Meyer-Bode, the damage caused by the weeds to the farmed plant in Europe is 15.7%. The biggest losses caused by the weeds were found in corn crops and are 13% worldwide. According to our data, the highest competitive ability towards the weeds has corn and the smallest sugar tail. The reduction in yields due to untimely weed suppression in corn is 10-20%, in soybean 23-30%, in sunflowers 13-30%, and in sugar tails up to 24-26%. Similar results came from Zimbabwe in 1971. At the same hardening intensity, the higher the yield of sugar tail compared to soybeans, and the lower the loss of yield was in corn. Given the rapid expansion of wild sorghum, its morphological and ecological characteristics, the reduction in the yield of farmed plants caused by its presence is about 50% and sometimes significantly higher. In the crops of the dense assembly there is a smaller risom and underground mass of wild sorghum, and the reduction of the yield in the crops of the braids is significantly less than that of the mussels. With baths, the competitive relationships of farmed plants towards wild sorghum are weaker than in the ears of a dense fold, such as wheat, barley, rape oil and others. In addition to great numbers, the yield reduction has a significant impact on the length of the risomim, as well as its age. If the field is three years old with curly cheese, and in terms of its suppression, the yield of corn has been reduced to 97% compared to corn grown in unscathed fields. How do you feel about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7495	Time, 15 minutes. Finish it, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7496	I'd just like to say a few things that matter most...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7497	I'm sure there's not 15 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7498	As no organised action in the repression of this weed species has been approached in the meantime, it can be assumed that this weed species has spread significantly, both territorially and in numbers per square metre. According to 1995 data, the loss of yields was: for corn - 3.3 tonnes per hectare, sunflower 1.2 tonnes, soybeans 1.5 tonnes and sugar tails 24 tonnes. According to official data in 1995, about 9,000 hectares of sown sugar beet surfaces were not removed because the root yield was carried away by a wild sorghum. What does a field without a wild sorghum mean? We'll take an example of Vojvodina: corn if it's 650,000 hectares, three tonnes each, that's 1,950,000; sunflower if it's 130,000 hectares, at 1.2 tonnes, that's 156,000 tons; it's 65,000 hectares, at 1.2 tonnes, that's 78,000 tons; sugar tails 50,000 hectares, at 20 tons, that's 1,000 tonnes. What are the resources needed to contain the wildebeest? This was given in natural relations. The successful elimination of wild sorghum should be carried out chemically suppressing the sorghum, both on the top of the cutout and partly from the seed, and in the following year in the wells of the seeds. It's a total area of 1,200,000 hectares and paths to be treated, that's 20,000 hectares. If 5 liters of preparations per hectare of scales were applied this way: 0.2 tons of corn per litre of preparations, 5 times 1.200,000 is 6 million liters of preparations and on the roads of 100 thousand liters of preparations, so 600,000 liters of preparations would be required. It's not the end of the investment. It takes two liters of preparation in the baths. Naturally, one liter of preparations for 0.25 tonnes of corn would amount to 2,400,000 litres of preparations or 600,000 tonnes of corn. The work that needs to be done is 0.15 tonnes for a hectare of corn on the slopes and roads, a total of 180 thousand tonnes of corn. The organisation of jobs would be entrusted to agricultural institutes and professional agricultural stations. In all, it takes 2,440,000 tons of corn to complete the sowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7499	Please slowly bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7500	In order to carry out the hard work of curbing wild cheese, without the help of the Serbian government, agriculture, regardless of the sector, could not organise or fight alone. The funds invested would return in a very short period and allow the country's agriculture to take the first place in Europe and the world, which it had in years ago. By implementing these measures, we could completely eliminate another danger that has been overcome over agriculture, which is corn gold, which at this point is extremely dangerous and will take many breeds. In the past 5 years, between 1995 and 2000, one thing is certain, that the above data, data from the institute, are at present much worse, much more drastic. This law can also be treated as the law of Lazar Marjanski and as the law of the SRS. It's only important at this point that we save those who fight for food. Let's help the paratroopers, help the peasants. All those who vote, vote not for yourself, not for the party, you will vote for peasants and for agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7501	Are the committee's reporters reporting for word? According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7502	Article 88 has been injured. You, President, cannot allow MPs to speak longer than is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. It was agreed to speak for five minutes, and the MP has the right to speak 15 and you have decided to speak it longer. You can't favor some MPs. As for the throw-off, please don't speak to me in tone and language that you keep for your family and friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7503	Of course, the Rules of Procedure are determined by the Parliament's decision. The Parliament's decision shortened time. The president only warns and takes away his word. I haven't arrived, if you're satisfied with such an explanation, I haven't been able to take away Mr. Marjanski's word, and the truth is, I had in mind that it was short-term exposure time, that it was the legislator and that it could be tolerated, and that I would do so in the future, a certain amount of time to complete the proposal. Replica, then a representative of the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the fact that this topic, the theme of agriculture, is obviously interested somewhere between 30 and 40 MPs of the ruling majority, because I don't think there's any doubt that we're more than 80 of us in the O.R. I say 30 to 40 MPs of the ruling majority, and it seems to me like he's saying enough about your responsibility, but I would ask you not to tell us how we speak to the locals, how we address our families, because no one has offended you, no one has cursed you, no one has ever spoken to you a word you use, said or said, and don't do it, don't deceive the public. The fact that you went out for a pay phone, the fact that you said that the Rules of Procedure was hurt, that was much more important to you than what was very clever in three minutes or five minutes longer spoke Lazar Marjanski about agriculture, about the problems of our peasants. The only thing you're told is whether the Rules of Procedure is wounded. It was a joke you were told, and please don't let us repeat what you're capable of throwing away, what you're capable of saying, what you're capable of doing. You are also able to accuse an SRS parliamentary group because, and when they are allowed to speak, they spoke, but there they have spoken for a minute or two longer, which has offended you terribly and struck you terribly. I don't know how you guys talk to each other at home, I don't even know what it's like with you. I know what it's like with us. With us, these relationships are perfectly normal, as we have normal relationships with everyone, but we will never allow you to teach us education or education because we have not finished less than you, on the contrary, nor our parents are much worse than yours, and I would never say they are worse. I won't offend you with that, so let me tell you that we are much better educated or that we know much more than you do, because I think it's up to the citizens to assess, not us or you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7505	The word has Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7506	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Agriculture has been considering this proposal, and I have listened with attention to the opening statement, and on the Committee we have also been paying attention to all of this, unfortunately, except for Mr. Proposer. It doesn't matter to this story. It is an important topic that was really very important to the Committee, and I would say that Mr Lazar Marjanski spoke well and that the topic was fully in place, that his establishment was also good, that the damage that this wild orphan is actually making to our agriculture is huge, but that we, by consulting professional services, by consulting the Legislative Committee, the Ministry of Agriculture, have unfortunately found that one such proposal cannot be passed as a law for several reasons. First, there's a way to prevent this accident and this great damage to agriculture, and secondly, we can't put one of these things in order of frost, city, flood or drought. There's still something we can influence and something we can't influence. For these reasons, the Committee decided not to accept this initiative, for the reasons that it is making and methods for this disaster, which has affected our agricultural land and farmland, to be contained. This, by the way, can be seen from Mr. Lazar Marjanski's accompanying lab. It's totally standing. I just saw, Mr. Lazar brought a copy of the plant for those people who didn't see it, and he explained here, who wanted to listen, that it's very dangerous and that the method of depletion of the shirts is dramatically increasing the number of individuals and that makes them even more harmful. But unfortunately, I have to say, there's a modern method, a long time known in land-processing technology, and it's a hoax. So there's another method, and that's two years of wheat growing. I've consulted the experts on that. So there are two methods. A herbicide spray, which is very expensive and costs about 300 DM per hectare. That's very expensive, of course. There's a story in that story, and there's a story, which is -- it's not worth it to us to treat our field, if our neighbor didn't do it, so the weeds, so next year it's a drastic transfer. And there's another method, and that's two years of wheat growing on that surface, which with six treatments destroys this weed. So, respecting all this Mr. Lazar Marjanski made, the Committee concluded that this proposal could not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7507	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ivkovic, as representative of the parliamentary group. First call. You have no right to a replica, no offensive expression. Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7508	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can't help but think after the previous statement that it is an obvious evil intention to reject Mr. Lazar Marjansky's bill. I don't think that's good. As it is not good that the law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, such as the rejection of the law on the protection of minors, is not good if Mr. Lazar Marjanski's law is rejected. The story is quite simple. We have three participants in the entire system. We have the state, or government, the manufacturer, and we have the users. A simple calculation shows that the state should invest certain funds, but has an interest in investing certain funds, to remove orphans. Why? Because it's increasing the balance. It increases annual production, which is achieved in agricultural production in its country. It creates a chance not only to satisfy the domestic market, but also to increase exports. The user has an interest in helping him, removing an orphan so he can increase production, and if the same amount of hectares has more production, he has an interest in lowering the price. The user is satisfied, i.e. the citizen, because his standard is improving, because agricultural products are cheaper in the removal of sorghum. The law is logical and correct. Don't turn him down because he was proposed by the SRS and Lazar Marjanski. The calculation shows the following - two tons of natural corn cost the removal of sorghum for two years, from one hectare, or the surface of a hectare. So, spending, the funds that the state has to invest are equal value of two tons of natural corn, in order to remove the sorghum within two years. What's the score? Production increases from 2.5 to 3 tonnes of the natural value of corn per year. The assessment of experts is that after removal of sorghum and up to 5 years, we can count on it not to appear, which means that 5 times 2.5 means 12.5 to 15 tonnes of production, and two tonnes of production have been invested. Savings, i.e. surplus products, are 10 tonnes per hectare for 5 years. Well, people, figure out if there's a reason to uphold the law or not. I don't think agriculture has put a terrible burden of sanctions on its back. We need to make that clear. For the sake of social peace, for the sake of citizens' standards, in a country that has been deliberately imposed on the embargo to be impoverished, to manage the people and to determine who will do what in this country and how to behave, to give up the rights of citizens who want to stay in the old Yugoslavia and give the right only to those from the old Yugoslavia who want to leave. Agriculture carried everything on its back. We had to limit these peasants' prices and everything to keep the country's social peace, which paid $200 million a year to neighbors to be able to export or import through them. They made a fortune on our coat of arms and Macedonians, and Bulgarians, and Romanians, the same ones who let the planes come here after NATO and drop bombs. Now, if that's what agriculture has endured, if there's no more of that embargo, if there's not at least that physical aggression, with the rockets, even though there's these others, then let's finally, when we're able to lead the designed policy, to help the villagers, but that means that the state has an interest. We will vote for this law, the Socialists. For what? The state has an interest in investing in the removal of the sorghum, because it will increase the balance. The manufacturer has interests because the country, removing the sorghum, allows it to increase significantly its production on the same surface. The user - the tax collector has an interest because the larger production will allow the manufacturer to sell a cheaper product. The state will export. The bill in the natural corn says -- two tons of natural corn cost the country the removal of sorghum from one hectare of the surface. Production by five years is 12.5 to 15 tonnes higher. Savings for the state, the higher balance per hectare is 10 to 12.5 tonnes. And the bill is clear. The facts are really inconclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7509	The word is Mr Nikolic, as representative of the parliamentary group. First call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7510	He's holding a sample of the sorghum in his hand. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, allow someone who has never broken the field or reaped it to speak a word about what I'm mistaking from another aspect. From the point of view of MPs belonging to a party that has been worrying for almost two years whether the people will be able to survive the difficult time we have been in or not. This is that wild orphan (holding an orphan in your hand) ripped out this morning. There aren't this many corn in the forest yet. This, as he now acts naively and innocently, cannot be compared to what it will look like when the time comes to pull out the tail or to pick corn. It may be taller than corn, and these risomis will be so intertwined that their tails can't be removed. This is the weeds that our mostly nursing households can't fight anymore. What they could do, they could. And everything else, without the help of the state, is not going to work. And as someone who hasn't spent the entire time in the shade of the opposition, I suggest you think about this because you'll worry about how much bread we'll have and whether we might be able to export extra food to get something else that's not in our country, something that's not born or not being excavated in our country. It's not the purpose of this law any demagogy. The purpose of this law is to try to help. He can't even root this out from one action. This has to take years. Why is an orphan more dangerous than an elemental accident? The drought will be one year, and it will rain. That year, the lineage goes down, but next year he's got it. The flood comes one year. The groundwater rises, like last year. But next year there's no flood, there's no groundwater. This will never leave our fields again, it will only grow stronger and bigger. Because we don't even do fertility anymore, who used to save our corn from almost all diseases. We have such production, the wheat is the cheapest produced, with the least labour force and sown for years in the same field. That's why it's such a low price, but what you're going to do, when there are no more young people in the country, when there are no middle-aged people in the country, is all that's left in the old people. Who's to blame that our parents, my parents, settled in town? These were the circumstances, but now their descendants are born in the city, and not only do they not think of going back to the country, but they have no place to go back to the country. There are no more houses in which they can live, especially houses where they would like to live, which they cared about in the previous law. I'm sorry to see that there's not even a quorum in the O.R. to discuss this bill, I'm sorry some MPs may not take this seriously enough, I'm sorry the government didn't take this seriously enough either. First, she refused, and so did the committee that always followed the government, and perhaps she could answer to submit its bill. Perhaps even that would be enough, at least for us, the MPs of the SRS, we would wait for that bill, because our wish is for this issue to be regulated as soon as possible. The value of the Vojvodina can't even be shown, not by billions of dollars, not by dinars at all, nor by any measure that I could compare the value of what Vojvodina has every fall, somewhere even twice a year, yes. And you should think about it. You should think about it because you're in power, because someone's going to ask you -- because it's corn, because wheat, how much it's born, and how much it could give birth, and we're not going to be the opposition that's going to keep telling you that one Holland can feed Europe, and we can't, with a lot more land, because we know what difficulties, we know how old the engine fund is, we know how much the farmer has money to invest in production, we know how many gangs exist on imports and seeds, and protection, and fertilizer. Because we know all that, so we'd like to help, even if anyone is in power, if the peasant lives better. When a peasant lives better, he doesn't need to worry about the fate of this country. That's why, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I recommend this law, that this orphan stay this size, and then that he is not in our fields next year. If we let him be a forest in our fields every year, then we won't have agricultural production very soon, and with this authority, we very soon, I guarantee it, we won't even have industrial production. Yesterday's data from the Federal Bureau of Statistics says industrial production last month is 3% lower than the last one, and by 10% lower than in the month of April last year, and think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7511	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law that has been written completely ideologically, a law that is not a political pamphlet. The bill was proposed by MP Lazar Marjanski, a man who owns the country himself, processes and loves the country. Namely, Marjanski processes 23 acres of fertile land. The government of the Republic of Serbia gave a negative opinion on this law, and this opinion was signed by Vice-President Joseph Kasa, and Dr Dragan Vesenov, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, who, as usual, are not in the hall, but are there when certain religious sects are visited. The MP of the SRS, Lazar Marjanski, proposes that the existing agricultural land law in Article 1 after Article 1 add a new position that reads: "Protection of agricultural land, within the meaning of this law, includes the prevention of natural disasters by taking appropriate measures, (floats, droughts, winds, weeds) in order to preserve agricultural land". What is an exception to many of the laws we have considered so far is the existence of a valid and detailed explanation. The explanation given for this bill is much more serious, more detailed and qualified than the government has offered under the draft budget law and the final budget law, with which discussions have been under way. A special accent in the explanation is given to the need to destroy a dangerous corn plant, a wild cheese, which causes huge losses, especially in corn crops. And, you don't have to know much about agriculture, and I don't know much about agriculture, to figure out what kind of danger that wild orphan is and what damage he's doing. Ambassador Marjanski explained it in full with words and data that everyone can understand. As I understand it, an orphan is for corn crops what's piranha in the fish world. Now, only in the social sector, this year there is a likelihood that 10-15% of the seeded areas under the corn will not be harvested. The cause is, of course, a wild orphan. Ambassador Marjanski titled one chapter in the explanation - an orphan as an elemental accident. I don't agree with that, though, and he's corrected himself in the course of reasoning, because, as they say, the flood comes and goes, it can be re-sowed by what the water destroyed, and the sorghum for a very long period of time defuses the effort and resources invested. The means of combating this dangerous weed are huge, but it's invested tenfold. The government does not deny the danger that exists from wild cheese, but the bill was passed by SRS MP Lazar Marjanski, which is why it should be rejected. Law promoter Lazar Marjanski, unlike the Minister of Agriculture, does not sell empty stories, but argues that by investing certain funds for the destruction of this weed, the crop of corn would increase by three million tonnes by 10 years in one year of production. We'd be free of addictions, we'd have food to export, we wouldn't have to take what they give us as humanitarian aid, which is mostly unquality and infected with dangerous plant diseases. For a moment we had the honor of entering the Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of Cass, and then he went back to do more important things. I call on MPs to forget party membership, this is not ideological law, but to vote in favour of this bill, and the MPs of the SRS will vote in favour of the bill submitted by SRS MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7513	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7514	Dear fellow Members of the People, I will start at the end - here we have listened to the argument in favor of this bill, to supplement the Agricultural Land Act, that it is actually smart, useful, necessary, etc. and that the law would probably be rejected, only because it stems from the opposition camp. It's absolutely unfounded, incorrect and, after all, ugly, but in politics it's allowed. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, as a member of that committee, I said (and Marjanski was not there, otherwise the man for whom I have sympathy is the son of a paori), that the elemental disaster is what man cannot predict, which he cannot influence, and these are, for example, hurricane, storm winds, it's a city, it's a drought, it's a flood, it's these forces, the celestial forces that we can't often predict. Now, radar can predict the occurrence of accidents and the urban cloud, but that category absolutely does not include wild cheese, as dangerous weeds. Because of that very idea, the law is missing and it doesn't need to be adopted. I've been on the road every week, I've been to Backo and Srem yesterday, and I've seen different degrees of crops, very clean, without any weed, I've seen the weeds, and so on. Mr. Marjanski himself listed here that the hardening is about 20-30% and so on. So the question is, why aren't all the fields rooted? Not all fields are rooted, but the fields of those old men with exhausted machinery, without power, without the means to fight those weeds and other weeds. There's also palamid, there's mustard and so on, which can really reduce the gender to 30 or 50%. That's the problem and the knot of our agrarian. The village has grown old. Why? The young have left the village. Why? No one's crazy, the father and mother said -- go, son, don't bother, because it's hard to do a pairing job that's not adequate, by the state that sets the prices, was paid. People aged in ten years, in ten years, the machinery was outdated, many tools were exhausted, and in addition, it was allowed to put on the market the means to protect plants from weeds that were pure forgeries. You spray it, that's what one man told me the other day, and the potato gold is progressing instead of being destroyed. That's the problem. If you want to talk about the term - an elemental accident, it was this previous government that has allowed for ten years the unfavourable processes in agriculture, which have led to this situation that we have today. Where's the solution? Mrs. Olga Curovic, formerly Secretary for Agriculture of the province of Vojvodina, also, did not, Lazar Marjanski first come up with the idea of doing so, suggested that it be declared an elemental disaster, but, of course, it was rejected for the same or similar reasons I'm talking about, because it was an attempt to explain to the people that it was something that fell from the sky and so on, and to hide who caused it, who today we have fields that the owners can't process and that we have 80 metric cents of corn. You know, if you don't know, let me tell you, in the institutes, I was there yesterday, making corn that can produce 12, 14 tons per hectare, and we get, when we get, five tons per hectare, and we bend the malts. Why? Because our peasant has no economic basis, no opportunity, no parity is such that he can apply proper agrotechnics. If he could accept it, then there wouldn't be a wild orphan and we wouldn't even be talking about him as some kind of elemental accident and some kind of enemy that would ruin us. I can see that people here are calling it going to ruin the village and agriculture and so on. Therefore, the right solution for our agrarian is, I have suggested, but all the heads of parliament have failed to invite this assembly to the Serbian government to prepare a draft long-term agrarian policy, in which all the measures will be necessary for us to become large producers and food exporters, with an effect of three to five billion. I can tell you that no parliamentary group has accepted this, as in that previous assembly, when I was an MP, my proposal was not accepted. People avoid it. I don't know what the motives and reasons are. (President: Time. ( ) As far as this bill is concerned, it really does not need to be discussed. I think because of the very name and title of the proposal and the idea that one plant, which someone suppresses because they can, and some because they can't, doesn't treat and equalize, let's say, with a storm that comes at a speed of 150 kilometers, cancel out the lights. Instead of turning to the right things. I have the sympathy and understanding for the fact that one MP wants to be remembered in the annals of the assembly as a legislator of one law, as well as his parliamentary group, and so on, but this is not the right solution, as I told Mr Banet Ivkovic, to pass a law on support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. (President: Please finish. We should turn to the right things if we want good, not a farmer and a peasant, but if we want good for ourselves. We are a country with beautiful and great potential. We're a people, some kind of instrument that someone couldn't play, but was nagging. I'm afraid it won't continue. That's why, as a National Assembly, as a legislative body, we need to take care of it. If I used the word "breathing," and you're repeating it, then I can tell you that your contribution, your MP groups, was to support a government that worked against these interests for ten years. That's why we have a wild sorghum. Fight for conditions without you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7515	The word has Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7516	I, I guess, except that no one listens, said that our wish is not to remain remembered for suggesting some laws. I said, if the government had promised within what time the law would be passed, if the government had submitted a second bill, we would have been happy to give up this proposal. It wasn't a wish at all, especially not a political promotion for Mr. Marjansky. But, Mr. President, it's really not fair, there's really no morale here -- you adopt a five-minute limit of time to your majority, DOS majority, and then DOS MPs speak seven minutes. It really doesn't look like anything anymore. Mr. Trnavcevic spoke exactly seven minutes. It's been happening since you introduced the principle of limiting time. I mean, in the context of the replica, we heard Mr. Trnavčević here that some fields are rooted and some are not, so now because of those who are not, we don't need to pay attention to those who are. According to that resolution, we have people in the country who are poor and people who aren't, and now we don't have to look at those who are poor at all, because why are they poor when others aren't. Why give a child a child's allowance when there's a family that has such an average that they don't need a child's allowance. It is not you who can set the limits for those who live well, but for those who live ill. You can't value the country according to whether it's processed or not. We need a farmed land. We can now criticize society, we can criticize you, too, when you were an MP, why you passed the country's return law to certain citizens, and that country went into a parlog or sold out for some cars, failed our big cooperatives, huge combinations that the country was doing. That land is now unworked. We've got weeds coming from all over the Vojvodina. Here's an MP from Vojvodina. You're not worth going to the institutes and to the peasants for the roasting. Why don't you go ahead and ask the peasants what the basic problem is? It's not worth it, the cooperative estates are unprocessed. That's what you all know, that you're moving with the Duke. When you see an unprocessed property, you know it's cooperative. It's not private at all. A private can't do that. One more thing, one nice and mild warning: you've been in power for eight months now, just as many as the Serbian radicals have been. Think about it. Will you be able to come out here for another eight months and say, "We've done everything in the last 16 months that we should have done." I still don't see that you've done anything since.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7517	There's no replica on the replica. Mr. Nikolic, you know very well that Mr. Marjanski has spoken for 20 minutes. Don't, correctness does, that you keep pointing out something that you yourself know is false or, as your fellow MP said, that you're saying what you know is a lie. It is that I treat the MPs of one party in one way, and in another way the MPs of the other party. I think at least that should stop, because it would really make my job easier. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I am not the duty to make your job easier. It's not even a lie that makes it harder for you to lie. (Božidar Vucurovic, from the post: We did not vote in five minutes. But you're bound to stick to it. The People's MP Dragan Colic has the word, followed by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, perhaps this topic for some of you will be inconclusive, and for those honest and honest adversaries who live on this and their hard work, it is very important. The bill covers the protection and fight against the prevention of natural disasters, including floods, droughts, winds, weeds. It is not disputed that the jobs of protection and promotion of agricultural land are as natural wealth, a matter of general importance. It would be of great importance if the problems of elementary disasters were treated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in a more serious way. The MPs of the SRS are seriously accessing every problem, every item of the agenda, every proposed amendment. We also take agriculture very seriously as a significant sphere of society, and even more seriously, the people’s and efforts to preserve the fruits of their work. We do not want to teach the Serbian peasant how to sow and process the country. He knows it best. We want to learn from him. As MPs of the National Assembly, we can make proposals for quality laws, which would work successfully in the area of agriculture. I am not convinced that this government of Zoran Djindjic will successfully treat the area of agriculture and natural disasters, which cause invaluable damage. I am not convinced of the wish of Agriculture Minister Veselinov to do something that would benefit the Serb peasant, except that he is heartily insisting that no grain from Serbia's Vojvodina goes to Serbia. Has Serbia ever had a worse minister of agriculture? As a member of the SRS, I have also proposed more funds for anti-building protection, due to the invaluable damages that the city has caused. Your absolute DOS majority of Serbian radicals have rejected it and is unaware that it has done great harm to a Serb peasant. Whether the crop plant, a wild orphan, will be treated as a natural disaster and whether you will take the necessary measures of protection will depend on you alone. The Serbian citizens will see the outcome of the debate and the outcome of the vote under this bill, and they will all be clear as they already know what fate awaits them under DOS authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7519	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would not be so strange that there is no government representative, or Minister of Agriculture Dragan Veselinov. Perhaps a man has some business in a cult, but I would like to inform the public, and the president of the National Assembly, that it is obvious that there is neither, I would say, 70 MPs in total. I would ask him to interrupt the session, since that's what he formally establishes and to commit in a certain way the MPs of the majority to be as many as possible, so that at least half of them attend the debate, which we think is very important. Don't be angry with the MPs of the opposition when they point to you. We also point out to the people and citizens of Serbia what your relationship to key issues is, on issues of the highest social importance for the entire community. I think that's enough talking about your seriousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7521	I'll put your request on the check, to determine the quorum. You already have one warning, Mr. Wolfie, by the Parliament's decision, though at this session. You have offended Mr. Veselin, are you aware of that? I'm not giving you a warning, but I'm warning you that you already have one warning and that this will only make things worse. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: Please, I only said what Mr. Vesenov said here in the previous meeting, which you may not know. He was publicly boasting about it... You'll be able to discuss it with him... (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: It is not an insult, Mr. Martian, because I have said what is true. You can't insult me if you tell me I'm tall or heavy, if I'm tall and heavy. It's not an insult. He boasted about it. We're in the middle of something right now? It's not an insult? Saying to the congregation speaker that someone is a member of a cult. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: He boasted.) All right. If he disproves it, you'll apologize, won't you? (Alexander Vukic: If he disproves it, though he will not deny it because he said he is a member of the sect. You don't follow political life. Great, we'll keep that in mind. We need to determine the quorum. Please determine the quorum. And that first warning you told me you didn't... It's not me, it's the National Assembly. I checked the notes, we can do it on the break, there was something much worse, because if I had noticed right away, I would have suggested shutting down the session. I didn't say a warning, I said the Assembly, a statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. We'll continue our work at 3:30. [[After a break.]] Please determine if we have a quorum to resume the session. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the wild orphan as part of the Korean flora has evolved today into the most powerful and dangerous Korean plant. In all our places, it is not known this catastrophic presence of a wild sorghum in our fields. With the development of our agrarian science, agricultural techniques and our financial opportunities, the use of herbicides has begun as an economical solution in the fight against weeds. A few days ago, a federal law on genetically modified organisms was passed. We, as the Serbian Radical Party, did not vote in favour of this law, because we believe that it is very bad in these times and in these conditions in which agriculture is located today. This law, adopted at the federal level, will bring us many new Korean plants we won't be able to fight. It's genetically engineered weeds and plants that we can't do at this point, and probably in the future, to act, because we won't have chemical and other technological means to fight them. It is the interest of all those who occupied us in a technological sense because their goal is to be a consumer society, or that we do not produce domestic healthy goods, agricultural products. This law, which today is on the agenda, is a real hit to improve our agriculture, which is in a very difficult state. When we say what an orphan is here today, probably most MPs, and most of the city's population, don't know what it is. Sirak is evil for all agriculture, and it reduces yields by its activities on agricultural areas, destroys quality agricultural cultures and thus requires greater resources to maintain these agricultural cultures, or reduces contributions to all cultures. According to the data listed by Meyer-Bode, the damages caused by the coroving plant in Europe are 15.7%. The biggest losses caused by weeds were found in corn crops, and at the world level, they are 13%. According to our data, the highest competitive capacity for weeds has corn and at least sugar tails, the reduction in yields due to the untimely suppression of weeds in corn is 20%, in soybeans 30%, in sunflowers 30%, and in sugar tails 26%. Given the rapid expansion of wild sorghum, its morphological and ecological characteristics, the reduction in yield of farmed plants caused by its presence according to Nilhauzene data is about 50% and sometimes significantly higher. If some calculations give indications that only on corn in one year production is reduced by three million tonnes, which is according to today's censors and 200 million, it is a figure that can be compared to all the aids that come from Europe. Yesterday's "Blic" on the front page brings data that reads: "The assistance of Europe is 300 million DM for energy, medicine and agriculture. "This title tells us to rationally think about this strange plant called an orphan. Just imagine, an orphan can bring us that kind of money if it's contained. According to some data, about 300,000 hectares of oracies are not being processed today. It's a large agricultural area and it's like unprocessed at the same time and a nursery, i.e. a reproductive chain in the spread of sorghum. The cheese is contained in intensive agricultural production, which carries out at least two nuts. The orphan is contained in both chemical and mechanical means. Since this requires a large amount of money, the state is obliged to adopt this law in the form of natural disasters and thus help our agricultural production. This is new to us, or we have never dealt with such a legal project, and I suggest that this law be adopted by this congregation. The bill also lists items that show exactly whether the government of the Republic of Serbia's investment is worth 10 years. The adoption of this law acquires the right for the state to provide, on this basis, a number of agricultural experts who will work on this project, and hence, agricultural workers. It takes the country a little bit to get back to our farmer and our farm, a farmer invested in agriculture for many years. He shuts up and works with his work makes everyone happy, and he takes the least of his pleasures. Maybe this law that's on the hillbilly's agenda today will bring a better one. Vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7525	The People's Messenger Arsen Kurjački has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7526	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, in an analysis of the type of whether the promoter as a representative of the former regime that totally destroyed the agrarian in our country, this proposal demagogues the peasants and the agriculture, I would not enter, let every appraisal for myself. What is indisputable, that the promoter has made a great effort to explain his proposal in a very professional and comprehensive way, and it deserves all the praise, especially because many fellow MPs have now first heard of the "wild orphan". But I come from the center of Vojvodina, my family handles about 200 acres of land, which is over 100 ha of the most fertile Baconic Chernozem. I'm a graduate agricultural engineer, I've worked as a farm inspector for many years, and the main law I supervised was "The Agricultural Inspectorate Act". That's why I find myself very competent to be able to comment on this a little bit. So, the wild orphan is a corn plant, extremely harmful to every wartime production, and it's absolutely not controversial. The needs for destroying the sorghum are really high, but it's hard to do that by passing one law, and especially by such an unspoken law. The only effects that can really be achieved are special agrotechnical measures and chemical treatment. So, we have mechanical treatment of land, cultivation and bathing of wells, or heating and so on. third-graders. Then, it can be eradicated by biological measures, by applying fruitoreds, where the sorghum population is destroyed by a biologically stronger cultural plant, meaning wheat, barley, rye, hemp, etc. The following are chemical methods, which means proper professional use of herbicides, although the sorghum is rapidly becoming quite resistant, means resistant to the fact of many poisons. So all of this is well known to our agricultural producers. Hence, the question arises why did the wild orphan grow so large and spread, how exactly and precisely did Mr. Laza Marjanski speak. Because agriculture at all, and especially in the last 10 years, the country's economic policy has been devastated. How can a peasant buy a herbicide when it's as expensive as a stone, so even if he doesn't estimate the good time of treatment the effects are flat zero. It used to be treated more than once on the same plot, and today it can't even be done darred. How can a peasant or a agricultural combination, a cooperative, do cultivation, sparring, sobering, when there is no fuel all these years, when it's too expensive and today, when the machinery is old and when there are no spare parts? How can he respect science and fertility, when the state takes his grain off at a bargaining price every year, and still pays after a few years? In the end, how to take a bath, when today's a 20-mark wage a day, and he can't find out who's going to work. How is it to find, when social policy all these years has been such that employees in some weaker or failed companies have not received salaries, and that's why those unemployed who have never worked anywhere, and by that people's -- they can rip their tails out -- they've got social aid, they've been sitting on ditches, they've been drinking beer, they've been playing cards, they've been putting together teams, etc. Let's say, in my Serbian, off-the-board, for years 300-500 seasonal workers came from Kosovo every year, because they couldn't find domestic seasons, and the unwarranted social aid users were too much. So this problem cannot be solved by any legal obligation, but by proper agrarian policy, and that is the essence of the whole story. So, primarily the policy of parity and price relations. All these years it wasn't in the agrarian. The DSS advocates that farmers and other agricultural producers be independent and economically strong. Every host knows very well what to do on his property and does not need the state to prescribe it. We at the DSS will try to give him economic interest in production, and he will deal with his own orphan. In the end, even today look at and pass by the atom, so you will see two different fields, two different hosts, in one lot of weeds, and in the other all clean. So it's not exactly like that. To conclude, an elemental accident is considered to be a phenomenon almost impossible or unaffected. Wild cheese is a plant culture, and despite being a very unpleasant crop plant, it can absolutely affect its population. I therefore find this law unnecessary, that it should take the mentioned measures in the sphere of economic policy - the healing of agrarians, the revitalisation of villages, the popularity of peasants and peasant lives. One more natural for the promoter, it is said in our people - less beautiful, a handful of fists and don't be afraid of sorghum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7527	Why the replica? The promoter is Mr. Marjanski. Only Mr. Marjanski was mentioned, not a party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it does seem unnatural that someone who says that at the time of the Socialists was an agricultural inspector, accused one party who, except for two years, was opposition that it was part of the regime that ruined agriculture. Is it the larger regime that is the agricultural inspector with the SPS or the SRS who has been in the opposition all along? Next, don't just laminate over what doesn't exist. There is nothing we are ashamed of in two years as we have exercised power in the Republic of Serbia. There's nothing. There are difficult circumstances in which we have accepted to enter the government of the Republic of Serbia. There is, it remains behind us, that on two occasions we have completely freed Kosovo from terrorists, remains behind us that the children sang as we fought against the NATO Pact, and you think about what it was and why. It remains behind us that we have built your land, completely destroyed by the aggression of the NATO Pact and that you are now riding the bridges that we built, not those of the Styrofoams that you made. It remains behind us if we didn't embarrass ourselves, if we hadn't stolen, so I'd ask the MPs, if they didn't want to challenge the replicas, to say openly, plainly and loudly -- you sir ruined agriculture, you ruined the industry, you're our children, you've imported cigarettes, you've provided us with drugs on the needle. And like this, to propose a law like this, and especially if you were referring to MP Lazu Marjanski, to tell him that he has ruined agriculture, to tell him that he needs to be bothered, and with all the work he has, and you know very well what he's doing, he's processing another 30 acres of land, it seems unnatural to me. So again, I point out that time is slowly passing and that you have already spent almost half the mandate of the SRS in the Government and think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7529	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7530	I agree with the previous speaker, Mr. Kuryački, that an orphan is a very dangerous plant and has taken up a large space in our fields. Yeah, for the past 10 years, there hasn't been enough oil, there hasn't been enough herbicides, they've been expensive. Let me also point out that foster homes are in villages, it was a embargo, we were bombed, and it's all like that. Sir, since you're doing 100 acres of land, no one has ever been able to fool an orphan. You know, you're in agriculture, you're an engineer, you're an agronomist, and you said what methods are being removed, and you don't need to be like people who don't know how to say an orphan is being taken out. No one's ever removed it like that before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7531	The word is by MP Marijan Risticevic, and then by MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Mr Arsen Kuriaski mentioned the hoax. Motika is not used only for bathing purposes. Motika is sometimes used for burial, so some people understand on the one hand and others on the other. I'll finally agree with the opposition: an orphan is a really dangerous plant. Imagine how much an orphan can do harm to a stork of two ar of pickles. It can fail so much that only three cornishes remain on those two arias. Now to be clear, a wild orphan is certainly a dangerous weed plant, but even though it is dangerous weeds, a wild orphan is not an elemental disaster. Mr. Arsen Kurjački was right there, an elemental accident is something people couldn't influence. I'm not just gonna deal with the consequences here. I'll deal with the cause. What are the causes of the spread of wild cheese? The main cause of the spread of this evil, weed plants is the catastrophic agricultural policy that has been led over the past 10 years. It was a agricultural policy in which the former government was involved in the takeover, not in the ransom. The peasants had no right to sell, only the right to surrender. The government could have paid for agricultural products, and it didn't have to. And what little she paid for, she paid for it with no cover money, so money that wasn't worth anything, and until they got it, he lost value. With the former government, one kilo of wheat was worth 10 pfenig.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7533	Please stick to the subject. We are not talking about the policy of the former government in the area of agriculture, nor about the policy in the agriculture of the new government. We'll talk about it another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7534	Mr. President, I certainly take care of your concern for democracy. I thank you for your corrections, but on the agenda is the law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. It's where an orphan is absorbed as a dangerous weed plant. I am saying what led the orphan to be rooted, i.e. to expand to significant parcels in Vojvodina and Shumadija, Machvi and Serbia. So, what are the causes of the spread of the sorghum? The causes of the spread of the sorghum are certainly a lack of funds in the peasant land, in the social land, for people to deal with this dangerous Korean plant. And why was the lack of funds, I said - one kilo of pig meat, or June, in the former government was worth 1 to 1.2 DM, and now it's worth 2 to 3 DM. For a liter of milk, it takes 10 pfenig, and for one liter of motifs, it's a means to eradicate this dangerous plant, at the time of the former government, it took 1,080 kg of corn. The current parity is such that it only takes 250 kilograms of corn. For one liter of diesel, and that weed is destroyed and over-poored, it took 10 liters of milk, now it's enough and 1.5 liters of milk. One kilogram of mineral fertilizer required three kilograms of wheat, and now it takes 1.2 kg. When I say this, I want to say that the government has done a lot with its agricultural policy, the new government. That's not perfect. We'd like more. But since they left us with a socio-economic disaster, our population cannot pay full prices for agricultural products. After all, the government has done a lot. She did this by removing the excise duty on ethylene-alcohol, which is a means of making herbicides that destroys this dangerous maize plant, so that we do not deviate from the agenda, she abolished the excise duty on ethylene-alcohol, and also the tax on herbicides, whose height was about 15%, which was paid only by farmers. So the government has already taken steps that are necessary to remove this dangerous weed plant. I don't mind him proposing this important law from the opposition party. I'm even glad. But an orphan is not an elemental accident. This could have been predicted and it could have seemed that people were getting their money fair for their honest work. Like this, I'll be obliged to tell you how they used to do it. Last year, the Law supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, partners in power, and today's proposer, adopted that the case be resolved by forcing farmers to necessarily process agricultural land, with the threat of fines of 10 to 50,000 dinars. If the penalty does not pay within a month, the user or owner of the land could have left up to 10 years without land. The government, or the competent ministry, could assign it to another. The bill promoter then said -- those areas that are unprocessed pose a great danger, because that's where the wild orphan appears. That's how he wanted to remove the wild orphan last year, and we saw how he wants it now. I suggest that we remove a political orphan and send him to community service, some Padin Skela, some property, where he would...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7535	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7536	... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7537	The word is made by MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7538	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've seen a lot of agricultural experts here who understand ourselves better than us peasants destroying a wild orphan. I'm glad you did. If you're so complex as to help us in all other laws, I think we'll solve all the problems in agriculture easily. What matters, before I say anything else, is that the government did everything the gentleman who proposed this law asked for. At least until now. So, what Mr. Risticevic has already stated, the abolition of excise duties, the removal of the 14% tax on traffic, the elimination of monopoly on imports of repromaterials, so this year, for example, my son and I cost a hectare of corn spraying, not only of sorghum but of all other grasses, about 150 DM, and last year it was 220 DM. When it's multiplied by the number of hectares, you'll see it's more than the figure required by this law. The problem is that you need to understand. Well, that's not the problem. Last year, the then Ministry of Family Care, Mrs. Bube Morine, presented data that in Serbia at the moment, and there is a major problem why our fields are unworked and rooted, there are 250,000 boys at the age of probably not getting married anymore. I'm not going to count part by piece, but I'm going to point out that it's 40 municipalities in Serbia without a rural population lost over the past 10 to 12 years. The problem's here. In order to process the fields and destroy the grasses, one grass cannot be destroyed because it frees space for another grass. Let's say, where we don't have a problem with wild cheese, we have a problem with palamid. Are we going to declare every grass an elemental disaster? Of course we can't. The problem is that we need to create economic motives for young people who need to stay in the country, so that the repromaterial is cheap, that they can make good money and return to their homes, where they will have a solution to the housing problem, solve the surplus labour force, so that politics is such that girls and young people don't run away from the village like the devil from the cross. As far as the wild cheese itself is concerned, the promoter has seen the problem well. I really know what it's like both in Savina and in Machva, in Banat, just to look at all of this before that. But the problem of solving the Korean flora was said first and we must return to our book of Genesis, where God has given us the land to rule. We'll be the ones who run the animal world, plants, etc. So we need to work first, and the other problem cannot be solved by the MPs, as well as by the previous law. There must be a team of biologists, botanists, agronomists, all the people who are there to see how harmful the effects of chemical preparations are. The motika, of course, can't destroy a wild orphan because it's spreading out of a shirt, but it needs to know something else. The wild orphan, or seed in the land, remains 30 years. Of the seeds, 30% can't slide, nor can it appear under the most favourable conditions, because genetically it has to retain that possibility that the glider might not be destroyed. So a wild orphan is a very intelligent plant. That requires extensive measures. The government has already prepared them. I'm not gonna take up your time anymore, but I'd just like to mention two things in the end. First, this looks like crying over someone else's grave, and those who have to deal with it at least have a chance to get to the point. I also resent the DOS parties for having very little of my colleagues here. Actually, I'm the only one. Secondly, I'm going to tell you a lesson story. When I was 12 and I first started working, that's when my father bought a tractor, talking about how fields are kept from weeds and clean, my grandfather said, "my son, only with a digger and a hoof, and on meadows with hair." So if we get the young back, we won't be telling these stories anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7539	The word has a National MP, Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7540	Dearly respected presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, and for this proposal of the legislative project, I do not think it deserves too much attention to talk about it here, as I have said about the Bill on Small and Medium Enterprises, for the simple reason why the promoter wants a purely economic and economic problem to be translated into legislation. This economic and economic problem is seen in the problem of profitability of agricultural production. We should commend the promoter for trying to give a large number of information about what he is talking about in the light of this bill. But how is the obligation of each legislator to provide for the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the legal project, he gave certain elements, but did not quantify the necessary funds, so I asked Mr. Marjanski - how much does it cost to treat a hectare? He said 200 marks per hectare. And when all the other costs that he foresees in his explanation are added, it would turn out that the treatment of one hectare of agricultural land, in order to achieve all these effects, would be close to 300 marks. When it comes to a million and 200,000 acres, it comes close to 350 million marks. When it turns into dinars, it comes close to 11 billion dinars, which, if adopted, would have to be foreseen in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I guess, in the Department of Agriculture's division. E, Mr. Marjanski should have said so immediately - from which funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget should be provided or how much budget rebalance should be done and taxes and contributions increased, and then back to the discussion on the tax and contribution package. For these reasons, this law should not be adopted, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is neither an economic organisation nor a financial institution, which should invest in agricultural production from this perspective, but the Proposer gave a very good idea and all agricultural goods, to make a study together with chemical products producers, to prove that they all have a profitable interest in investing in weed control, to increase productivity of production, and to place it in the function of economic operators, not a legal project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7541	He has the word Mr. Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7542	Mr. Stanko made a little mistake and said it was an extremely expensive treatment. I assumed I was a steamer, a farmer, a peasant, crediting himself, and that the state would be the first to give its hand to the peasant. He would return it through nature. Secondly, as for the chemical industry, I only took the components of the chemical industry, which would make up other chemicals, and the Serbian government would make up for it by returning to chemical industries. With regard to profits, it's normal to build profits. The beginning of the fight against the weeds must be the hardest. I only took a wild orphan as an example. It is certain that there are other plants, and other weeds, that destroy our agricultural products. Sooner or later, the state must face that sort of thing. He's got to give the farmers their hands. I'm not saying that at this point, as I've calculated, it would be much more expensive. Oil was more expensive, etc. There's been some shift, however, a peasant, a paor, can't handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7543	There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have heard the promoter, Ambassador Lazar Marjanski, who, like all the other MPs of the SRS, explain this law, spoke of all the elements that justify the adoption of such a law. On the other hand, we have heard the position, the dossic majority, which disproves this law, under the motivation that there are no elements here concerning elemental disasters. So these basic disasters, which are listed in this law, exist. There are, above all, because this kind of crop plant is that kind of thing, like. that in the U.S., in one of the states, when locusts or bugs appear, in which case the Americans turned their missiles towards Russia, or at least, towards Serbia, seeking defense from the elemental disaster. And we, when we have an elemental disaster ahead of us, what a wild orphan he is, we hide, and we don't want to admit it, accusing all the authorities of it, ever since the time the orphan came to the premises they're talking about. So, to the places where he came a few centuries ago. It is said here today that this elemental accident can be destroyed by disruptors, roto-containers, cultivators, locusts, preliminaries, basic processing, etc. But that's not all true. This weed plant has the ability to reproduce in two ways, through seeds and through roots, or rhythms. Each mechanical process causes an even greater reproduction of this weed plant, and at the same time, the seeds produced by this weed plant is so easy that it can be carried out by the wind. So it takes one recovery, a total recovery of a wider space, where a greater hardening of this plant appears. For these reasons, we have to worry together about the suppression of this weed plant, because it's not about the palamid, it's not about some wide-ranging Korean plant, which can be destroyed by disrupting or by some herbicides. This maize plant has become immune to all herbicides known to be applied today, and at the same time, it can also be harmful as a plant that will re-emerge in a certain ten-year or decades period, whether the agricultural producer, the peasant, will maintain its parcels neatly, mechanically or chemically. With that in mind, we have to admit that it's not just a weed, that it's not about plants, uncultivated, that meet daily on the road and on the street. Even if some MPs saw this plant here for the first time today, when it was shown, it's about that it's about a Korean plant that's not usual and that's really causing an elemental accident. I believe that DOS MPs should consider this and convince their government that, unless it adopts this law, it should develop a programme, an agrarian programme, which will also cover these measures that are proposed today by MPs Lazar Marjanski. If that does not happen today, we, the MPs of the SRS, as so far, will consider that you are not only interested in these laws proposed by the other MPs of the opposition, but you are not interested in the peasants you so earnestly advocated. I believe that by not accepting the addition of this agricultural land law, you will do great damage to the overall state of Serbia and that we will lose the great economic effect of the proposed law. (President: Please finish. ) Just in the end to say that this law, which has been best and best presented to the National Assembly so far, has all the elements that are incorporated into this law, which are: causes, consequences, measures and economic effects. So, it's not half the law and it explicitly refers to a single Korean plant that is now, after the October revolution, all the presence in Serbia's premises.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7545	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a very important law, an important area, but unfortunately we do not see a Minister of Agriculture here. He's probably got a little bit of work to do, and he doesn't care about laws like this. He's being tried by a group of G17 and now he can't come here, to judge, that with his expertise and competence, he has someone's vision and opinion on whether this law is useful and what the situation today is in agriculture, when it comes to fighting orphans and other Korean plants. On the other hand, we have received one interpretation from the Committee on Agriculture, which cannot be acceptable, because an explanation has been given that this is not an elemental accident and that this should be eradicated by a malice. The experts said the hoax couldn't be eradicated. Now the question remains, is it an elemental accident or not? Gentlemen, it's not what we can name an elemental disaster, it's what's due to action. An elemental accident can all be in a large amount, as the medicine can be an opening if given in a large dose. So, we can't discuss agriculture so casually and talk about agriculture today, and a few months ago your mouth was full of agriculture, taking care of agriculture, taking care of the peasant, the pathetic speeches, the rallying, how the peasant carried out all the accidents these years, nothing was returned to him, how he was orphaned, united, etc. You see, you have one law, you have here at the beginning one possibility that this man and these people, who are indeed at the most difficult age, historically the most difficult years, have fed that people of their own and endured on their back all the tragedy of everything that has been happening to us. However, the ruling opposition in Serbia, by rejecting this law and refusing to accept it and giving some justification, in fact, and telling the true story of how it thinks and what it thinks. Gentlemen, I don't think it takes much to worry about, because this isn't about destroying all the weeds, this is about destroying only the sorghum. Therefore, every concern is excluded. Secondly, what I would like to say if spoken, and the legislator gave one truly remarkable expert analysis, and every layman would be clear to read the economic justification of all of that, then you can take one smaller space and examine and check on it all these possibilities of how to contain that weed. Let's say, let's take Northern and Middle Banat. If you don't want to go to all of Serbia's territory, give it a narrow area to make such an organized treatment. Because it can't be said that one field is clean and the other one isn't, when you all know that an orphan is such a plant that literally flies from one field to another and creates conditions that even with that host, who is very valuable in trying to counter that weed attack, the field is poisoned by another field. So this treatment must go organised and cannot be talked about some economic measures, parities, and all other stories. If it's not done in the territory of a whole space, the results are certainly nothing. By the way, I'd like to say something that's here that's a real congratulator with really decent intentions, extremely congratulating and fair-minded in front of this one-law assembly. A man came out, a host, who grew up in that field in a pituitary banana plain that fed him, and he, working and schooling on that land, knew that he knew all the troubles that followed him and knew that today, feeling all the trouble all the farmers were carrying and carrying on, tried like this, from the position of MPs, to help them. I think it's for all due respect, it's for all the praise. But it's certainly one moral obligation for all those who ate that bread with several crusts, who actually survived and came into a position and their children this year in some way to school, with this simple and simple move. When you ask whether to press green or red, you may decide to work a little bit into your sense of conscience, to press something that doesn't fit what you agreed on, but that fits only in your personal conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7547	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am an MP for the Serbian Radical Party from southern Serbia, where this corny cheese plant is not in expansion, i.e. it can only be found in traces of what the ruling majority is in, probably because our citizens are worthy of it, and in time clean up the weeds, whether it's called orphan or democratic power. Me, as MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, any problem or danger to our country, whether the danger in Serbia's Subotic, Serbian Knin, Serbian Mitrovica or Serbian Presevo, will never be left indifferent or without an adequate reaction or at least a comment. Some MPs here in the O.R., as well as viewers at the end of small screens, think of the ladies of impoliteness, or the vulgar throw of DOS MPs, are defocusing in my presentation. Apparently, the confusion of moments stems from my emotional approach to the work I do, because all the problems and difficulties that our citizens experience in person, I feel for them and I try to help them in some way. Since this proposal was passed on time, it was time for every MP to, to whom this area is unknown, to get acquainted with it, or to consult competent experts from this area, and to presently make a full contribution to the fight against this evil, i.e. The weeds that attacked our cereal, that is to say, the bread fields of Serbia. Speaking to experts in this area, I learned that unless adequate measures are taken urgently, I am afraid that it will be late or at least more expensive and more difficult to contain, or destroy this weed, very dangerous for our fertile crop fields. Korov is very similar to the pest government in one country. The longer he is allowed to work, or develop, the greater the damage, and the sooner he needs to be removed, the more likely he is to be able to act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7549	Mr. Janjic, it's very difficult for you to even give a serious warning, so I give you a warning with a smile on your face.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7550	Mr. Chairman, you're either not in the O.R. or you're not listening to me. I would ask the MPs of the majority not to show equal concern for the destruction of orphans as they have shown by voting against the law sanctioning the cultivation of Indian hemp and other light drugs. To destroy this dangerous Korean plant, it is necessary to engage all the minds of this country in this area, i.e. agricultural colleges and all the other experts in this area, to provide the necessary resources, both financially and chemically, and to immediately access the cleaning of all our fields from this weed. Another reason for you to vote for this law is that, besides the chemical means, you will be engaged and the hook and the pest, so for a few months, because of your overwork, you will be spared the hook and the pest that is returning to tradition, long forgotten Serbian history, and in so long, it will bring down every tyranny and international power, and so will this. I hope so, and I'm struggling to clear Serbia of the harmful sorghum and the harmful natural government in the package. Yesterday, call an MP who boasts not to read the laws, and likes to read cucumbers, let them insult all MPs here. I'm not going to say for you that you're a criminalized government, I'm not going to say for you that there's an unremembered terror in this House, I'm not going to say that you have no personnel and knowledge to solve any problem, let alone lead the state. I won't even say that you want to destroy Serbia. If for nothing else, vote for this bill just because I didn't charge you this time with some crime and a robbery that we attend every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7551	The People's Messenger Stevan Guduric has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7552	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the law that a colleague of Marjanski explained comprehensively, anyone who wanted to read it could have seen it. I also understand that most MPs are from such backgrounds, that they are not understood in agriculture or in orphans. I also understand that there is no law, because there is a bad omen and a bad sign again. It would be good if we had for these or some of the other things that we're talking about right now, some other proposal, which will show that the problem is being thought about and that whoever's in power right now is going to do it better. Let's just take it, there's been talk about some previous legal projects, there's work to be done, there's no job, there's no job, there's no job, there's no job, there's no job, there's no job. We've heard from a colleague of Kurjak, that it's not only a matter of what the wages are when it comes to agriculture, but it's a bigger problem that you can't even find someone to work with. Then we left so that there was no work on one side, and no one would work on the other side. Let us also think about this and think about how this problem is solved, because there is a fact that a syasthe of them is looking for work, and God is asking him not to find it. We're going to show just one example: the invitation of 200 people who were supposed to be requalified to get a job, to get paid requalification, responded to 30 to come to the interview, and five went to it and four came to get a job. We're talking about no work. It is said that at least half those who seek him, they pray to God that they never find him. It would be good if we were all full of the mouth of that farm, it is not disputed that it is the result, or cause of the weeds, etc. A hard life in the past. It doesn't matter what we Socialists say is that it's the result of sanctions, bombings, which you'd say is the consequence of our government. Let everything be true. But what is done, months pass, what is done to make it different now, when you are responsible for power and when you rule in this country. What happens on a specific issue of agriculture. That's where we didn't see God know what. I'm not some farm engineer in the country, but I was born and I'm going to die there. I understand a lot more than some people who have never even been to the country. There's nothing going on. The garbage is much more expensive than it was, a dozen things haven't been done, not nearly as promised. So if we want to move forward, then let's do something for certain things, if we said that this agriculture was the one that fed us and maintained us in this ugly time, practically on our burden and on our backs, and that is the fact, what is going on in this time to turn it around, to be different. Let's just think about it one more time, I'll say it three times, whether all those looking for a job really want it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7553	The word of the People's Messenger is Srboljub Zivanovic, and the next is the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7554	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, neither more serious nor more serious listeners, but well, that's ours. The draft law supplementing the Agricultural Land Act is on the agenda. Earlier in my presentation for this speaker, I pointed out that the peasant is a national hero, the only fighter who produces everything for others, and uses a minimum for himself. Everyone swears to the peasants and the agriculture, like this government, they all promise him when he's sown and harvested, and when it goes quickly, they forget him. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of agriculture was seen in Mr. Zoran Djindjic's exposé, because he devoted a sentence to agriculture and its problems. In his first speech of promotion to the Minister, Minister of Agriculture Vesenov informs that the MPs and the general public of these words: "Dear peasants, there is no longer anyone to rob you, no more who to take from you, no more who to sell you the goods you have produced, no more who to take from you your sweat." But the peasant quickly became convinced that the people's "dog barks the wind." There's a spring sowing and he's convinced that in the last 30 years there's been no more expensive sowing. Even if he forgives this government and the Minister of the Peasant, what comes up: 1. Seeds of lower quality corn, lower germinity and a lot of seed falsification; 2. Import waste which has been highly praised from Hungary and Romania twice the quality of our manufactured fertilizer, our factories have not been able to produce and purchase raw materials; 3. Bad quality safeguards. The Republic Ministry of Agriculture and Minister Veselinov did not form a field exit commission to determine the damage caused by the flood. To this day, no commission has gone out in the field to determine the damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7555	Please return to the bill your party has proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7556	One more sentence, the commission didn't go out on the ground to determine the damage. Agriculture is a plant under the clear sky, and everything depends on it, the farmer is the most honest and most frequent worker - he does not have a union organization to defend him. Ladies and gentlemen, we trust a lot in agriculture and its production and export capacity. We did a little bit of work on the start of the factory, which is related to the processing of agricultural products (all are in the fallout phase, such as fruit and vegetable processing factories, many sugars are in the process of their disappearance – whether due to their outdated technology or poor use). Ladies and gentlemen, the entire agricultural production is collapsing, major strikes are emerging, labour stops. There's nothing to do, there's no work, the workers are fired.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7557	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7558	This is my introduction. I'm just about to start. A significant role in exploiting the genetic potential of fertility has been played by good agrotechnics, agrochems, protection against disease and insects, and particularly by successfully suppressing weeds, which greatly reduce the yield of plants. Complex measures are proposed, including preventive agrotechnical measures. There were a few experts here from agriculture. I don't think they've explained it very professionally. I'm a man of technique, I'm an amateur in agriculture, and I think I'm, I guess, listening to their exposure, a major agricultural expert of them. So, land treatment, proper fertility, and only then if they don't give the desired results to use mechanical and chemical measures to fight this evil plant. One of the main accentes was put in place to chemically suppress wild cheese. The wild orphan, as part of the Korean flora, has evolved today into the most powerful and dangerous Korean plant. Our agricultural institutes and agricultural cells do not have enough data to determine for sure the actual loss in the yields of farmed crops on the surfaces affected by wild cheese. But an orphan like a very powerful weed, he sought a systematic and elaborate struggle in all the farmed cultures. Agrar, like all economic branches, has come to a level that military production must be remedied first, and only then enters regular production. The social sector is most at risk because it is the worst in economic terms and its surfaces are now the biggest source of all the problems with the cheese. The surfaces that are infected with this weed plant are difficult... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... put into agricultural quarantine, as this weed can be reproduced through seeds and by means of a risoma (root, girdle). The seeds of the sorghum can contain leachability for up to 25 years, even by changing cultures it lays low and waits for favorable conditions for its operation. The shirt works in a limited space, mostly located at a depth of 20 to 30 cm and a quality depth treatment can be reduced by the amount of vessels' shirts in the farmland. The largest number and most rooted surfaces are in Banat, Srem and Machvi, where the wildebeest has settled to 90% of the soil, and these are our largest grains. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7559	Mr. Zivanovic, I already warned you during the time, it's the sixth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7560	In addition to great numbers, the reduction in yield has a significant impact on the length of risoma in the land, as well as on its age. If the field has been rooted in wild cheese for three years, and in terms of its suppression, no appropriate measures have been taken, the yield of corn is reduced from 85 to 95% compared to corn grown in unscathed fields.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7561	Mr. Zivanovic, I'm giving you my first warning about time travel.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7562	Given the rapid expansion of wild sorghum, its morphological and ecological characteristics, the reduction in the yield of farmed plants caused by its presence is up to 50% and sometimes more. The mechanical or manual disposal is very difficult and it's impossible to stop by and clean up the terrain...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7563	Mr. Zivanovic, I'm giving you a second warning for time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7564	... It's small enough to keep it in place so it can reactivate and regenerate the wildebeest. One more sentence, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7565	It can't, Mr. Zivanovic, there are two warnings, it can only be followed by taking words because you used the introduction for four minutes. You could have responded nicely to the subject, I'm sorry, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7566	Gentlemen, I think one more thing, that Mr. Micunović Zoran, who is the chairman of the Committee, or Micovic, is sorry, you've handled it so badly...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7567	Mr. Zivanovic, I take your word. Please step away from the pay phone. The word has a folk MP, Zlatan Jovanovic, and the next is Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7568	Ladies and gentlemen, although the majority of the assembly are trying to point to the inconclusiveness of the subject by its absence, or by its indifference here and its inconclusive relationship with this subject, I believe that the subject is very serious and should be approached with much more attention. The government's representatives have not been here for days, so it's no wonder for them, and they haven't given any of the topics we've discussed, and they haven't honored this home with their presence, with honorary exceptions, almost any subject. The law that we are considering today, in fact, the addition of the law, consists only of one single sentence, and I don't see how so much dispute over this one sentence, I have to read it, and I have to read the whole bill now. In the first place, the first member of the existing Agricultural Land Act states: "This law regulates protection, use, improvement and regulation of agricultural land, as a natural wealth and a good of general interest. "After the first position, Mr. Marjanski proposes a second position, which reads: "Protecting agricultural land, within the meaning of this law, includes preventing natural disasters (floats, droughts, winds, grasslands) and taking appropriate measures to preserve agricultural land. "As far as I can tell, the orphan is not mentioned here, so in the very proposal for an addition to the law. It mentions the elemental disasters, which include the weeds, are actually mentioned in fact the obligation imposed by this law on the state to take care of the land and to do whatever is necessary to protect and preserve the land. Therefore, it is not the aim of the Proposer to place directly here, directly, either as a Korean plant or as an apostrophe of any elemental disaster, but as a result of this amendment, the Government must commit to taking appropriate measures to prevent the adverse consequences of the elemental disasters, which are now only listed in the Korovic plants. One of the predecessors said that weed plants are not elemental disasters. Gentlemen, today the city can be predicted, and the stormy winds, and heavy rains, etc. However, we cannot resist these phenomena in a quality way, we cannot prevent the consequences that are harmful to these phenomena. The premise of that, and the corn plants that have hit a large part of our orange surfaces, which is a fact and what we see in this very detailed explanation, are causing huge consequences, meaning huge damage to our agricultural cultures. For these reasons, it just takes one of these attitudes to enter into the existing law, and that's why I support it. The data, which Mr. Marjanski stated here in an explanation, refer to 1995, which shows that back then, in 1995, this Korovic plant occupied huge areas in Vojvodina, but also in other parts of Serbia, and we can only assume that today the situation is far more unfavourable. It means that this corn plant has spread to other parts of the country, the intensive treatment of the earth, means where these orange surfaces are in a more significant range. Therefore, this law should be passed, not run from it. I believe that by proposing the law, or amendments to the law, the Proposer has left space for the Government to determine the decidently which weed plants can be classified as elemental disasters and according to which weed plants or elemental disasters should be properly reacted. In the end, just one sentence. I would like to address Mr Trnavčević, who said that the previous government was a natural disaster and that, in its previous period, it brought factual agriculture into this position, primarily thinking about the prices of agricultural products that were already known. Today I read in the daily newspaper that yesterday was held a session of the Community of Fruit and Vegetable Transporters and that this session established the ransom fruit prices for this year. I come from an area where raspberries are grown, so I've been paying attention to this. The price of raspberries for this year of 39 dinars has been announced. Whoever deals with this culture knows that last year that price was up to 50 dinars, 45 to 50 dinars. If we take into account the inflation that has officially been over 100% by coming to power, and now it's significantly above that percentage, then you can understand the current government's attitude towards agricultural producers as to the price of buying agricultural products.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7569	Replica, Zechariah Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7570	It is true that I said that this government, earlier, the previous government, was some kind of an elemental accident, because it caused one cataclysm in agriculture in terms of poor price policy, parity, etc. Statistical data can be established, there are people who remember it, that an orphan in Vojvodina has been given the situation since the time when the rule, which was defeated on September 24th, came to the head of this country. It's an exact fact. As you take statistical data and see that the land is in the parlogum, 270 thousand hectares were, and last May of the month, in this home, then Minister of Agriculture Mr. Babovic, proposing a law on additional taxation of agriculture, he spoke of it, forgetting that it was now 500 thousand hectares because there was no fuel, which was no money to buy machines, tires, accumulators, etc. One more thing, dear friends, to tell you. The issue of agrarian politics is what we should be dealing with. You all know this well, and don't use this, in advance, inappropriate proposal, inappropriate because no orphan in any country has been declared a natural disaster so far. Not in Hungary, not in Romania, not in neighbouring countries, in that same climate belt, so don't come to us. The key thing to dealing with this congregation, if it really wants to be good for people and agriculture, is long-term agrarian policy, and then everything will be in place, thank God.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7571	I don't understand. You feel like you're an ex-government, not a class. I only ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups, Mr Ivkovic and Mr Nikolic, to declare whether they are the former government or not. You say it once, and once you say it isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7572	As such, the party was in power until the 24th of September lost the election and therefore, we are the former government, but also the future. You're laughing, but look at the election results on Sunday for municipal councilors around the cities, so you'll see how you've been through, and how the SPS went, despite everything you're doing to that party on the media plan. I'm unusually respectful of Mr. Zahari Trnavčević, and I really reluctantly went out on the line, but I had to. I knew that the nerve gas existed for Albanians, and now I realized that the Socialists produced an orphan in Serbia, as the nerve gas was produced for Albanians. Please, let's make a deal in this assembly once. For the last 10 years, it's a demented system of values. The fact that this system of values is disrupted has multiple factors. Yes, she is, the authority that was in power, by the nature of things, she is more responsible than others for the things that have been going on in this country, but don't talk about her as the only, exclusively guilty person for everything that's happened. You all regularly forget the intentions and realization of the international community's work on the premises of the former Yugoslavia. Who was bad in the former Yugoslavia other than those constitutional solutions? It lived in a multinational and multi-confessional community. Who in the yellow sweater started to solve in Croatia and Slovenia on behalf of Germany? Don't talk about it any more, because the guilt of the international community is present, as is the well-occupied guilt of you while you were in opposition. I said, you invited citizens to civil disobedience in many things, from defense of the country to paying taxes and contributions, which you have now increased 10 times.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7573	Where's the orphan, Mr. Ivkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7574	There is a replica to Mr. Zahari Trnavcevic about the relationship to the former government. This country won't step a foot forward unless we start talking about this today and tomorrow. Don't say things casually. Finally, in the end, I would be happy that industrial production in April 2001 was more than 9% of industrial production in April 2000. Unfortunately, 9% is smaller after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7575	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7576	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I do not respect Zahari Trnavčević as he does not respect me. If I were to respect him, I wouldn't go out for the replica, but if it's true that an orphan appeared during the government that she participated in and the SRS, I promise I'll help you root out that orphan. But since you came to power, there's been a god-dericking. It wasn't while we were in power, except for one short period at the end of 1992 and in early 1993, when there was really no milk. It never happened that the children's family couldn't buy milk. Now that's the case. Now, today, tomorrow, yesterday, this is the case that many families in Serbia cannot buy milk. It's easy to talk to peasants now -- you'll have extraordinary prices for agricultural products, and as you'll say to these in the city -- you won't be able to buy what the peasants produce. Most of it is a pain in the ass, the manufacturer is never high enough, and the consumer is never low enough. It needs to be coordinated. You have a wide field, a country available, arranged, stable, co-operated with the whole world, donations of showers all over the country, the budget is three times bigger and you no longer have any limits, you can provide everything to this people, but everything's going very badly. Everything goes much worse than when villains, criminals, dictators were in power. We knew each other. There's no extradition to The Hague. Whatever Serb was accused anywhere in the world came to Serbia to hide. Here's the orphan. If you ask where the orphan is, here it is. He came here to hide and knew he wouldn't be extradited from here. You hunt Serbs like when hunters go hunting for wolves. That's the difference. If you had truly fulfilled your pre-election promises, if you had brought into Serbia the life you promised citizens, which is why the citizens voted for you, many of us would no longer be involved in politics. I'd be the first to believe that everything I've done in my life was wrong. But every day you convince me that I did everything right. Everything. From the tiniest thing, from what you think I didn't do well, to the high state policy, we did everything right. Now that individuals have ruined both power and election, we've been in power with them. That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7577	The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7578	Dear colleagues, the subject is very inspiring and suitable for demagogy and cheap propaganda, and I will take the opportunity to take advantage of the chance that radicals will not be alone, so as not to say that we are not joining it. We're really here to deal with the consequences, the consequences of poor agricultural policy, and we're not in a situation to solve the causes. The consequences of poor agrarian policy, of this kind of hardening, of everything that has hit us in the new millennium, is the result of a poor SPS policy, I'm giving you a chance for a replica, which it has led to in the past assemblies of this assembly or in the past ten years. You'll remember, the Socialists had three years or four years ago, one congress, which had the motto "Step to a New Age". Was there a convention like that? Well, that "Step into a New Age" convention had one separate about agriculture, which was made by top experts in front of the SPS. Among other things, he had the parity of agricultural products that the Socialist government would adhere to. A few years ago, I was so rude as to take over these parities and let them go into congregation procedure. It was in the congregation procedure, the Law on the Parity of Agricultural Products, explaining that the SPS does not implement its programme and that I am giving an opportunity to, by voting for my law, adopt the proposed parities of agricultural products, resolve the difficult state of agrarians and agriculture. You know what the result was - the law never came before the Assembly, because the Socialists thought the proposed parities were bad. The board gave some explanation that this might not be the best idea, and I kept calling myself -- how bad parity, when proposed by the SPS Congress, called "Step to a New Age". And now we've come to a new century with this orphan and this problem. For what? Because agricultural producers could not, thanks to the parities of agricultural products, buy chemical resources and pay labour which would be capable of destroying and preventing the hardening of agricultural areas. It's an elemental thing. If we just go with the chemical destroying of the sorghum, then we're not gonna achieve anything. I think it would be good, more importantly, for farmers to be stimulated by good prices, cost-effective prices, by producing as much as possible, and they will be self-aware enough to destroy the weeds. That's one thing. And secondly, I don't think Mr. Marjanski in his law predicted anything about education. Education is very important. A good part of our peasants don't really know how to destroy an orphan. I resent that he listed a whole series of foreign authors here, and he didn't find the doctoral dissertation of one of the teachers of the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad, five years ago she doctored on a wild cheese, such a fat book with her finger, Sorghum hallepense, to see that there are serious studies and serious works on the subject. It says very clearly there that an orphan doesn't like two things. He doesn't like the sun and he doesn't like the cold, winter. So, shallow fermentation, what you're saying, right after you take off the harvest, is the passage with the tailors is one of the measures, and the other, leaving that sorghum to freeze over winter. So the sun and winter are destroying a wild orphan. When it combines with chemical protection, it can be good. The second thing, the corresponding fruitored, I'm talking about what's more important than steam and large mass, millions of marks that we should give there - a corresponding fruitored. If after the grains, you let the tendon take root, then you go with total herbicides, then you destroy all kinds of corn plants, then you go with a sunflower, then you don't have a wild sorghum, and you can spray it again. Well, if after sunflowers you go with corn, then you destroy the monosane sunflower alone, therefore, a certain fruity plant contributes to reducing hardening on agricultural surfaces and to a significant extent. As far as this government is concerned, I think she's taken the first, the truth is a very important step, which is that she's reduced the price of chemical preparations. That's what you have to say. Secondly, if the price of corn is 130 dinars, or 43 DM per meter, then each of the agricultural producers will be stimulated and able to buy chemical products. What's the solution? The solution is not to say that the palamid is a elemental accident, that the cheese is a elemental accident, but to stimulate agricultural producers to buy and that they can get to chemical resources in the right way. If any state subsidies could help that, that's something we could think about, see what we can do in the agrarian budget next year. Therefore, legal acts, no matter how good they are, without personal motivation, that each of the agricultural producers is motivated by price to destroy the crop plants on their surfaces, is not good and is not the only solution. The right solution is to combine various means and possibilities, primarily economic motivation, and each of us, if it has a good price for agricultural products, will know how to destroy the orphan best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7579	Where you're going, there's nothing going on. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic. [[The President addresses MP Ivkovic looking for a replica.]] There's no replica based on this. He didn't call, he was telling the history detail. There are no elements. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7580	Mr. President, while you were in the O.R., you had a famous deputy. And, during the time spent by Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, an SRS MP, who was identical to the time spent by Mr. Pal Shandor, Mr. Zevanovic was taken from him. I would ask you to level the criteria and that your coming down from that place doesn't mean hell here in the National Assembly, but for the record: being called a Martian or whatever it is your colleague's name is, it doesn't mean that an MP now has to worry about who's gonna sit behind his back when he gets his word. So I ask you to undo the decision made by the lady who sat before you, because she is really not even and because you do not have the same archaic against all MPs. It is possible that Mr. Zivanovic spoke for 15-20 seconds, perhaps half a minute, more than Mr. Shandor, but Mr. Shandor was not even warned at all. One warning to Mr. Zivanovic, the other, I take your word for it, almost kicked him out of the O.R. You have to think about it a little bit. Please, so we don't get into a situation where we can re-brand that yellow tape, that we really feel like the people who are being discriminated here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7581	I wasn't in the O.R., but as far as I'm concerned, it wasn't about the length of the exposure, it was about that there was talk off topic. Of course, I can't undo that decision, the decision has been made. The chairman is authorized to do so. He has the word Mr. Ivkovic (second call).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7582	I don't agree with Mr. Nikolic, I think you and Madam Vice President are slowly equating the criteria. You're evening it out on a case just now, Mr. Pal Shandor (I mention it, that it can replicate, because this is my second announcement) spoke out loud and clear more than 60% of the time about what's not on the agenda, he directly cited certain examples, he called me to report to the replica. You didn't warn him at all, and you wouldn't let me do the replica. And now to tell you, Mr. Pal Shandor, you've basically helped a lot here in the Assembly, you've given two very important findings -- the first finding is that the MP group of the SPS at the time was self-critical enough and assessed the decisions of Congress were wrong and she didn't want to accept the wrong things. Therefore, the SPS is very good at measuring things that it does, knows where it is wrong, and as you can see, how it corrects things and restores its reputation to the citizens of Serbia. And the party as a whole, and individuals, regardless of selectively trying to get individuals into the investigation process, so tomorrow they can't be candidates in the election, because you're afraid of them. The other thing you said was important - you told the truth, that there is no change in this country at all, when it comes to the relationship, as they did not want to accept your law, because they estimated that the Fourth Congress did not make a good decision, so here it's obviously extremely high-quality laws, such as the law on support for development, systemic support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the law on the protection of minors, were not adopted, obviously just because it was proposed by the Socialists. But to return to the sad orphan, because he, as well as the nerve gas, which only destroyed Albanians, obviously is now destroying, due to the Socialists, this Serbia. I spoke in the morning, and I will repeat - I am a construction engineer, but I have asked experts on agriculture, socialists, and they have explained to me this - that Mr. Lazar Marjanski's law should be supported for the following - is the interest of both the state and the producer, and the user. Why is the interest of the state - the state is paid to invest funds, to produce more on the same sown surface of the producer, and annual production balances would jump in this country. The producer is paid to help the country increase production, and when it increases production, it has an interest to lower the price, because on the same surface, in fact, with the same work, it raises production and lowers the price. This discounted price is the interest of the users and it is a sacred trinity that absolutely makes sense to everyone, it was an engineer, a lab lab or a peasant. A very clear story, especially, correct me if I'm wrong - I got the following data: that the state for about two years, because technologically it takes two years, invests two tons of natural corn in one hectare. So two tons of natural corn should be invested so that the farmer can get that 2.5 to 3 tonnes a year is more production when it's done than if it's not done. If 5 years is the period in which the problem is solved, production is more than 12.5 to 15 tonnes per hectare. So you invest two, and you get 12.5 to 15. Is that true? So is it true that the profit is 10 tons per hectare more? If that's true, then I don't understand why the law isn't accepted, except because Lazar Marjanski signed it?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7583	He has the word Mr. Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7584	Mr. Ivkovic, I would have been most fortunate if you had accepted my law and my program, because I prescribed my parities from your program, and that was the point, so your board, your majority and the government said it was not accepted. Therefore, in a situation where he had the assembly majority and the government, the SPS refused to implement its party programme by not turning him into the law. That law of mine is now in the process, I can bring it in, it's in the archives, I'll show it: that's when I even explain it, I'm giving the SPS an opportunity to implement his party program, and you refused. Now, if you hadn't refused to implement your party program, which was very correct in that part, then, for example, the grain would not have been 6 or 7 marks, but would have been over 18 or about 20, as normal as it is, it wouldn't have been enterprises, which are doing furniture production and I don't know what other things, given the privilege of exporting grain and making extra profits on it. And then, if we finally motivated agricultural producers to produce grain and make these agricultural product parities good, in the end line, we wouldn't have this situation with cheese, which has been dragging for ten or 15 years. That's all I thought about, and nothing else. Therefore, in the situation when the SPS was in power, it could have achieved its party programme, a step into a new century would have been without orphans, but he gave up his party programme, I'm not guilty of anything, I just now took the opportunity to remind you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7585	The word is from the People's Messenger Zivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7586	The Honorable Presidency, honourable Members of the People, before I begin to deal with this topic, I will ask the Honorable Mr. Pal Sandor to provide me with the work, or at least that separatist of that doctorate, because I am extremely interested - whether there is a causal link to the appearance of the sorghum and the appearance of the SPS in this paper, something is said. I would like to say at the very beginning of my presentation that the SPS parliamentary group will support the amendment and addition of the Law on the Use of Agricultural Land. There are a number of reasons for this, which I will explain later, but the main reason is that by accepting the proposed solution, we would bind the interests of both countries and agricultural producers, both citizens and society in general. I believe that this matter is party to a large number of MPs of this assembly and that it does not understand the essence of this proposal, as well as the effects that would result in consistent application of the proposed measures. It is not disputed that they do not understand this issue, but it may be a questionable belief in our story and an explanation that the interest, but of all in this assembly, is to adopt this proposal. I call on MPs of the ruling majority, who understand the essence of the proposed measures or are inclined to believe in the explanation that they do not insist on consistency this time, voting against everything the opposition MPs suggest. The reason behind the amendment and addition of the Law on the use of agricultural land is extremely high-quality and professionally prepared, so well that I, born on earth today, am working on the ground, some concepts and learnt. I'm not ashamed to say that. As explained in the explanation, agriculture in our Republic is faced with extremely large problems in production, due to the extreme hardening of the working surfaces of wild cheese and other multi-annual weeds, and by intensity, and by the surfaces. The hardening of farmland with wild cheese is due to poorer land treatment, due to the difficult economic situation of this branch, the use of herbicides and the often applied reduced land treatment over the past few years. The harmful consequences, urnated by the hardening of the land, are manifested through a significant reduction in the yield of all cultures, with more invested work and depletion of most of the poored land. Last week in our republic was a week sign of an international agricultural fair in Novi Sad. The visit to the fair was an opportunity for the leaders of the current government to reiterate their words of encouragement to this most vital and important branch of the organization, to announce even greater attention and define a priority agricultural position in our overall development. I call on the current authority that agriculture is not just a week of the year, or, if it is an election year, only during pre-election activities. We know that the most important job in agriculture is harvesting and buying wheat. I look forward to the consistency of the current government now to determine the price of wheat from 9 to 11 dinars. I didn't calculate, but I memorized those pre-election messages. As the pre-election messages and promises say, they will make the payment of the wheat, as our man says, right on the cantar, on the same day in the delivery of grain-milk organisations. If I didn't get a lot away from the basic subject, wheat and other crops or warring production could have a lower price that would satisfy agricultural producers, provided the yields per hectare are higher, and the yields would be higher if we freed agricultural land from sorghum and other multiannual weeds. The wild orphan will be eliminated if we accept the proposal within this point and apply the measures consistently. It is not possible to effectively eliminate this weed species, a partial field by field, but rather to organize more complex land under the supervision of experts. The material aspect also confirms the need to take the proposed measures. Now I will try to explain these effects of the measure, as the head of the SPS parliamentary group said and quantified, that the total investment in treatment over two years for one hectare of land is about two tonnes per hectare, and only in one year, as a result of that treatment, we have an increase of three tonnes per hectare. (President: Time. If we have been watching for five or ten years, it is not difficult to conclude that this proposal is in place. I believe that I have been clear and convincing enough in this speech, as well as in my proposal, Mr. Lazar Marjanski, that you will follow your conviction and that you will vote for this very, very good legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7587	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7588	Mr. President, look what we've turned this congregation into. While the promoter, Mr. Marjanski, explained this bill, there were not even 15 members of the DOS in the assembly room. About half an hour ago, during the presentation of the People's Messengers, you laughed so sneerly. This was seen by citizens who were watching this television broadcast, and the vice president of the Assembly, Mrs. Micic, who was sitting next to you at the time, hatched in that chair and was about to fall asleep. Even this black secretary was laughing at something. I don't think this makes any sense. Your behavior is passed on to the MPs. (President: you didn't come here to convince the TV broadcasts of this session. Please move on to an orphan. ) Your behaviour is passed on to MPs, and so is the parliamentary majority of DOS. (President: You report to the Rules of Procedure when you have an objection. Do not use time for what is not the subject of the agenda. ) Dear People’s MPs, we have before us a bill that is certainly, in a professional sense, the most qualitative law this assembly has considered. You have before you a bill that is crystal clear. I think we can achieve full consent in this. The indisputable state interest is that the state is organised to combat this great pest - the wild sorghum. You're wondering where the state's interest is, where's the math? Mr. Marjanski made it clear in the light of this law. Over the next ten years, the state needs to invest about a billion marks in orphan protection, and the clean effects are about 20 billion marks. So there's no politics here. This is pure math. Let's accept your thesis from DOS, that the wild orphan in Serbia was brought by Slobodan Milosevic, Mr. Ivkovic, Buba Morina, and I don't know who else. Let's accept that they brought this seed from Asia Minor and then planted it planically in Serbia. Let's do it. But the fact is that he's here today and he's definitely a kind of elemental accident. So that weed is here. This proposal, made by Mr. Marjanski, is here. Let's start solving this big problem in the duchy and Serbian agrarian, for the benefit of the people and the state. You're re-behaved here by indignity and ridicule, you're talking about the previous regime again. Almost every one of you in DOS, who went out for this assembly pay phone, to talk about a professional subject, a major problem, touched the previous regime. You act like you're not in power for eight months. You, unfortunately, are eight months in power. You're the government. So you have to start solving the accumulated problems in this country, from national problems, social and economic problems, economic problems and agriculture. The president of the Agriculture Committee, he's not here, he says - the law is good. You all heard that. In fact, you guys at DOS didn't hear because you weren't in the O.R. So he says -- the law is good, it's huge damage from this weed, but we can't accept the proposal. That was his explanation here. What's this about? Let's see what this is about. We, the Serbian radicals, as Mr. Toma Nikolic said, would be pleased to accept this proposal as a government proposal. You accepted such amendments on the tax package and presented them as a government proposal, so we weren't angry, we didn't score any political points. Please also accept this proposal and present it as a government proposal. We'll be too pleased. Let's make it a proposal of this legendary knowledge - the estate, this Zahari Trnavčević. Let's say it's his suggestion, though it's hard to convince the people that he can make such a smart proposal. But let's say that's Zachari's suggestion. Basically, this proposal has nothing to do with politics. You can't and the Priory refuses anything that comes from the opposition MPs. Finally, as far as this Mr. Risticevic is concerned, I must tell you that his appearance has made a significant contribution to this theory of evolution of Darwin. It is proof that evolution in certain species has stalled over a period of time. (President: Mr Veljkovic, I give you my first warning. Take care of how you talk about fellow Members. I'm taking care of it. So Risticevic is physically and mentally at an early stage of evolution. Was she the first human-like monkey?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7589	Mr. Veljkovic, I take your word. Please leave the pay phone. This MP, Mr. Veljkovic, received two warnings and was taken from him. The People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic has the word, followed by the MP Bozidar Vujic. Do I need to warn Mr. Stamenkovic about the drop? Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from the scene: I did not throw. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7590	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal of Mr Lazar Marjanski, his proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, can be understood if the existing law that is in force is read well, and Article 1 of this law says: "This law regulates protection, use, promotion and regulation of agricultural land, as a natural wealth and good of general interest. "Of course, this Article 1 is probably the basis for Article 1. Article 2 The bill, which reads: "The protection of agricultural land, within the meaning of this law, includes the prevention of natural disasters (floats, droughts, winds and grasslands) by taking appropriate measures to preserve agricultural land. "We have before us a bill that is clear, which is defined and very detailed. But what's not enough here? What's missing is that there's no government, that there's no government representative to tell us if there's a bill like this that can be passed. On the other hand, we had a clarification of the Committee on Agriculture, with an explanation that the law is good, that the damage produced by this Korgovic plant is large, but that the law cannot be passed for what he says is two reasons. One is that to destroy this weed can serve the disruptor, and we have heard expert opinions that the disruptor cannot eradicate it. Others who use spraying, and this is also suggested by this law, to remove and destroy this weed plant by spraying chemically and mechanically. However, I do not think this bill can be adopted because it does not have the EU's consent. So, in order for any law or bill to be adopted in this House, it must have the EU's consent, and since this bill lacks EU consent, it cannot normally be adopted in this assembly. If we carefully look at an explanation that is very detailed and beautifully written, we will see that this law still needs to be adopted, regardless of the EU's consent. For example, here in this text is said a day's reduction in yield, along with a great number of significant impacts has a length of risoma in the land, as well as its age. If the field is rooted in wild cheese for three years and in terms of its suppression, the yield of corn is reduced from 85 to 97% compared to corn grown in unscathed fields. If available with data from a previous period of representation and number of weeds, wild cheese by region, real losses cannot be determined today. So one situation is very alarming, which suggests that we should still vote for this bill. Here is the information that 300,000 hectares under the oracres are unsowed, and a large percentage of those sown will have fewer yields due to the fact that this weed plant. On the other hand, what Mr. Lazar Marjanski failed to do, and he didn't make it because of the time to explain, although he did give us one question here, whether the investment was worth it. This argument has already been given several times, that this investment is worth 20 times, and that this is a proposal for organised investment. This is one process that lasts five to ten years, with this paragraph being read: it would be invested twenty to thirty percent naturally from the total amount of funds shown over three to five years. So one systematic approach and the state could credit it, unlike how some MPs have shown that this is about some kind of abnormal amount of money. However, this amount of money is not so strong, since it would be paid and invested to destroy this evil, that is. This weed plant. Once again, I ask all of you to still... (Chairman:Time. ....................................................................................................... to help the peasant, and ultimately to all Serbian citizens, you are voting in favour of this bill that will bring about a greater contribution, and thus a better life in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7591	The People's MP Bozidar Vujic has the word, and the next one reported for the discussion is the People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must already admit that I do not have some great competence in the field of wild cheese and not at all from this branch, at least not as many or as many previous colleagues from DOS, who is otherwise the chief and who has been following this speaker to present his competence. However, as much my competence, as much as I have, comes from two facts. The first is to come territorially from a space where agrar is a dominant economic branch. Otherwise, I'm from a working organization that deals with the processing and food industry and directly relys on cooperative and very narrow and close cooperative relationships with warfare and livestock. Before that, I have a certain insight and knowledge about a wild orphan, like an elemental accident. The second, conditionally speaking, higher competence lies with two of my predecessors, colleagues from DOS, who spoke for this speaker. I think my competence is greater than they are, because one of them is an expert, although it's not an agronomist, it's a gastronomist, and it's an expert in the elimination of the cattle fund, and especially a pig, known as the expert in the Sremo pig brigade. Another expert, known as the bigger card expert than Big Lalet and a very large and competent expert on cheerleading horses.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7593	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7594	We are talking about the law supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, since the intention and intensity of the promoter, Mr Lazar Marjanski and the SRS, is to approach this problem comprehensively to help agriculture. I also have to say that this pay phone has been told several times by the predecessors of DOS one well-packed demagogue story about the bait, as well as the story of two plots, which they happened to see on TV, one neat, and the other rooted. These same DOS experts do not know and acknowledge European developments, as if they do not know that the winds are an climatic phenomenon, which will very quickly suffer the famous diligence of that ant that has a neat plot compared to those you have declared today as whistles, a messy and stiff surface. So much for your competence. Regarding three ways of removing the sorghum, the fact is that there is a mechanical removal, which is a notoristic fact and thus can be eliminated by a wild sorghum. Also, you have to pay attention and it has to be pointed out, and that's not enough, because with deep fertilization, there's a possibility that the sorghum seed, which was pushed to the ground at about 30 centimeters, would later be transferred to a space of five to six centimeters to the surface of the earth, that, since the sorghum is such an elemental accident, it would allow even after 20 years of alleged hibernation. You must bear this in mind, which is why this bill was submitted by Mr. Lazar Marjanski and the SRS to assist in this way agriculture. The fact is that agriculture in the conditions of sanctions and blockades has endured the most and has done so in the biological survival of the population. When, if not now, that farm goes back like that, both in that way and through this legal solution. The fact is that an orphan can be removed biologically, it's verified, and that's true, it's absolutely true. The fact is, it can also be chemical. However, the fact is notorious, in conditions where both the village and the peasants, and in general society, live with expensive herbicides, it is very difficult to remove wild orphans. The elimination of a wild orphan may not interest many DOS deputies. The cheese is not in the Curse, though it is not in the cave meadows, and the fact is not in the Prince of Michael. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the wild orphan, as part of the Korean flora, is developing today into the most powerful and dangerous Korean plant. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that the wild orphan is a corn plant that was brought into our country and that's where it naturalized itself. That's where she gets tired and threatens to become a monster for agriculture. (President: Time. ) The fact is ladies and gentlemen, that today, after years of blockade and a very difficult economic position of agriculture, we have reached the level that war production must first be resolved and only then to organise regular production. This law goes in that direction, and it is clear that the proposer's intention to help agriculture, to help the warlords to get on their good feet. However, given the situation, how you persistently try to reject the clear intentions and legal solutions that Serbian Radical Party MPs make to this assembly in order to make a general improvement, and because of your extreme lack of interest in solving this problem, and also in the way this law offers, as well as in general the indifference that has been expressed by the DOS today, mixed with the lack of evidence of the efforts of Serbian radicals...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7595	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7596	I'm finishing up how you intend to sell Kosovo, and then I can't say for this speaker, but -- all the DOS gentlemen are right up to Kosovo, but I can tell you, which will also be tragic, everything will be right up to Koseric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7597	Who understands will understand. The People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and after him is Michael's.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an SRS proposal to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act. So far, we have had suggestions where it was clear to all of us that, in this first row, government members, sometimes ministers themselves, come out for this pay phone, explaining the reasons for accepting or not accepting the amendment and supplementing the law. How seriously the government has accepted this proposal to amend and supplement the Law, where Serbian radicals, and in front of the SRS, Lazar Marjanski, suggest that we put the weeds in the category or category in the category of elemental disasters, best says the fact that there is no one here in front of the Serbian government, or the rest of the ministry. No wonder the minister doesn't show up, he's doing some other stuff, he's in that vault temporarily, and he sent his envoy from the party, this little Ciliban, to teach us lessons...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7599	Mr. Mircic, I give you my first warning. Take care of what you say and how you talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7600	Why is that, why is it the president's warning? What would I have gotten if I had told her to dress up at the Honey's children's department store? Would I get a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7601	You'd get another one, like you just got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7602	The minister deals with a commission from the sale of artificial fertilizer, the minister deals with the import of mad soybeans. These are the problems he deals with and most likely has a commission. That, by the way, is just what certain DOS political parties are telling the minister. I'm just quoting what I read in the paper. The arguments heard by the MPs of the DOS are not convincing and have no foothold. Serbian radicals, through their MP, Lazar Marjanski, have provided some exact data, which was obtained on the basis of empirical research and we have heard what are the counter arguments. The counter arguments are - no additional funds are provided. Gentlemen, if the government is to help combat this evil called weeds, and an example of orphans is listed, then it is not thought that the government is devoting budget funds, because it is the help of a peasant and if his tax is reduced, it is the help of a peasant and if it is contributed to a reduction. Different species exist to help the peasant. The next argument is that it can't be in the category of elemental accidents because it can be prevented. With logic and analogy of things, you can prevent floods, and by raising embankments, by regulating channels and streams, you can prevent storms, anything can be prevented. The city can be prevented, and it can be fought against the defenses. That argument is falling into your water. What, I think, is most impressive in all of this, which is the report submitted by the president, or the representative of the parent assembly committee. The man is, I think he honestly and humanly admitted that this is relevant data and that he could be respected, the weeds of a co-elementary accident, but, well, I guess the man didn't want to go that far to the end. He said -- it's a shame, and between the lines, it's a shame that the SRS suggest it, otherwise it's a good proposal. Of course, the reason that we can prevent weeds is one general finding, obviously that the disrupt is universal weapons or tools to root out all the weeds in Serbia, and this political one that has caught us in the sight of DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7603	The word has the People's MP Sredoje Mihajlov, followed by Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7604	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, allow me to do a little digression. I watched a television show where people were tested, polled, asked them what the word "majority" means. Then the people on the street said it was those who were a little in town or tied to that notion. Then they asked the experts to define it, and among other things, one definition was, there, these sociologists, that the citizen is the man who knows everything, who is competent to talk about everything and to give his professional court. Here, I say, there are those who know everything and who can talk, and I'll just say for the public, for the minister who's been attacked here, that he's from Banat, that he's doctored at agri-economy, that he's the youngest selected professor, and not as some professors who are self-called professors of the university, and the youngest elected professor of the university teaches political economy and deals with rural issues. He's an honorary professor at several international universities. He wrote a couple of great books on agriculture, as well as "Twilight of Peasants", which I would recommend to some who haven't read, to read, as well as a few more books on the peasant issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7605	Please stick to the agenda theme, we're not talking about the minister now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7606	I said I'd do a little depression, since you didn't give it to me that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7607	There will be, there will be a agenda point, a motion to resolve, and we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7608	Let's see what's important, though, to introduce myself, to say, I've been processing 20 acres of land, that I'm also tied to the village, but it's not my profession, but at least I can say something about a sorghum, which has really threatened me for 10 years, and me and my family, because my offerings have been reduced, and I think it's significant. Let me tell you again, gentlemen, to separate important from irrelevant, which is that we've been talking all day about something that might not be so important, that it wouldn't make our peasants happy as much as it would have made them happy if you hadn't loaded them with those huge taxes, so they don't know how to pay them. We haven't come to the point of liberating our peasant from those taxes, from the burdens you've loaded for them while there was that orphan. Then, gentlemen, let's talk about pension issues, the peasant pension fund is gone. It's been robbed, and we didn't do it either, but we found that condition. Gentlemen, we've emptied the villages of our Banatian, there's no one to dig. The best way is for an orphan to be eradicated -- that's what Mr. and Mr. Proposer, gentlemen who do a little farming -- is to be disturbed and healthy food will be, not polluted by herbicides. Gentlemen, let me tell you why this has happened, why the orphan has spread to our fields, why our fields have been rooted. When they say you rebuked them, now I'm going to tell you why it's true. It's true because the price of Motivella, Fuzilate, Furore or Tarota, if you will, depends on whether a wide list or a narrow list to destroy, was 100 to 150 marks per hectare. Then it went, smuggled, from Hungary was imported that same motivel, the smugglers or your companies were paid three times more than the actual price of these protective herbicides, and therefore the gentlemen were expensive. The peasants couldn't buy it, because they bought it from you, from your black market, through which you peasants climbed on your back, and that's why the fields were rooted. Now the price of this Motivelai Furore is as much as it is on the world market, imported and stopped as much as it stops everywhere in the world. We bought from Hungarians, let them say, who doesn't know, that we've imported it, and the smugglers take out 10 children of it, so they pour us water, and then you don't have that effect on the spray. That's what you know, those who suggested, those who deal with agriculture, and those who don't know, who I put there in a small-town class, they talk about something they don't know. Gentlemen, that's why the fields are a charger and if the protection had been applied to the sorghum, there wouldn't be. The sorghum seeds will be in our fields for years because the protection is not being used properly, and it's been demoted for years and that's why what you've got has come to pass. Let me tell you, even so, we're gonna get to the hoax. You were always afraid, and whenever I brought it up to you, then you jumped the most, because you think that's what you should be afraid of. Let me tell you, gentlemen, about the eradication, which is the way to go back to the hoof, which could also be associated with your government procedure, which is: the orphan is, for those who don't know, similar toothpicks or wigs. Whatever they call it, it is most easily eradicated, only properly and only possible, by extracting it from the ground, by pulling it out, means that there is not a single piece left in the country. If there's a fraction left, it reproduces further. So is the orphan. If there's one piece left, it's a wrongful bath, then it's all taken out, then it's taken out to the left or the end of the field, and it's waiting for it to dry, gentlemen, so it's working. That's how you gentlemen were rooted and we're waiting to take you somewhere on the left to disappear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7609	The People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic has the word, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will please my fellow MP immediately, and I will admit that I am a small citizen. Little peasant, I lived in the country and then a small citizen, because I lived in the city for a while. I don't really understand everything, but I'm not ashamed to ask, I'm not ashamed to ask those who understand it, so let me convince them what they told me, because those 40,000 residents of New Belgrade chose me not only to talk about the economy, but also all the other things that are being discussed here, and in order to talk about it, I have to ask around. I asked around my peasants, and here's what they told me about the sorghum, but also about the experts. They said whoever wants to fool up an orphan is talking nonsense. I was told an orphan could be destroyed by a five-story heating system. This will then explain how it is done and that it can be effectively destroyed by proper fertilisation, by pheasant, by leaving it to freeze a little bit, and then to warm up a little more efficiently with herbicides. We're not asking this bill of law for a peasant to buy herbicides, since the herbicides are expensive. We ask that the government help the peasant to suppress the weeds in the fields, and the peasant will, as always, repay his government for it. The main causes of all the natural disasters, including the elemental disasters called weeds, not only sores, but also other types of weeds, is the policy of the international community towards this country and you, whether you like it or not, must admit it. From there and expensive import preparations for sanctions, it had to be paid more than 10 banks and paid for the countries that were allowed to supplement their budgets, to export these goods to us, all of this was raised in the heavens by price and seeds, fertilizers and these products. Now, since the agriculture minister is importing it all, it will normally be slightly cheaper, although it should be significantly cheaper. The experts I have asked and my peasants have told me that, in addition to numbers, there is a considerable impact on the length of the country's risomim, as well as its age, and that if the country is reproved with wild cheese for three years, and that it is not taken the appropriate measures to suppress it, for example, the yield of corn can be reduced from 85 to 95%, so it will not be like Negosa - an orphan with no one at all, but it will be a sad corn without going to anyone, and around it is everywhere an orphan. The rapid expansion, they also told me, of wild sorghum and its morphological and ecological characteristics, when the reduction of farmed plants is caused by its presence, amounts to up to 50% in other cultures and sometimes more. The mechanical or manual removal or tearing, as a colleague said, by the system of me for orphans, grandparents for tails, is difficult and practically impossible, because cheese risomis, at least how much to stay, know that agricultural experts, regenerate very quickly and give back what once was. Treatment with chemical preparations is necessary, but not once, but several times and in a longer period of time. The weeds cannot be destroyed in one field and not in another. Sirak must be destroyed in an organized and larger area, and this organized destruction requires state aid. I'm not going to tell you about the economic aspects of this, because my colleagues have talked about it, but it's really not clear to me that economic indicators for the risk of yielding on agricultural land aren't enough reason for this law to be passed, unless you think the Minister of Agriculture, who teaches the political economy, should go out in the field, give the sorghum a political lecture and tell him that it's no longer breeding, because that's what our people can't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7611	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic and the last registered MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7612	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, when the Committee on Agriculture said it itself agreed that this law was basically good, but that it was not accepted by the competent ministry, so neither the Committee can support it to be adopted before this assembly. So far, about 50 laws have been discussed, and I have to tell you that this is the best legal proposal ever processed. Both the law and the reasoning of this law use precise statistics on damage, and the very estimates of what the yields would be if it weren't for this weed. The law itself provides for how these weeds are eliminated in the next five years, as well as that the highest cost under this law would be borne by the agricultural producer, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is to organise and credit the implementation of this law. Now we're getting into trouble. Why is this law not adopted by the government, or by the competent ministry. This law is to be implemented by Mr. Agriculture Minister Vesenov, and this is a big mental problem for him, because most of the time, when he's conscious, he's angry about hangovers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7613	Mr. Arsic, I give you a warning for the terms you use in relation to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7614	Mr. Martian, a man can be hungover if he's overexposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7615	I don't know if you're conscious now, whether you're hungover and if these are insults when I tell you, because I'm very strangely watched by Mr. Nikolic. They're insults and you know it. Please don't talk about it. You received a warning because of the expressions you used.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7616	The question arises from which money should be financed and credited to implement this law. It could be one of those couples that's designed to irrigate the working surfaces. During the election campaign, Mr. Minister has promised that in all Serbia, everyone will be able to irrigate and those funds could also be used under this law. When I analyzed this law, I calculated the damage of this weed, when it comes to corn in Vojvodina. Calculated in stamps, the figure moves about 650 million marks for corn and only for Vojvodina. Someone in these discussions that followed later estimated that the implementation of this law in Vojvodina would require about 350 million marks, which means that only the implementation of this law, both for the government and for farmers, is profitable because the funds that have been invested are returning almost double the amount. To be clear, I'm not against irrigation, I've been asking about this problem with the expert. Their answer is that the funds invested in these systems, with the production of cultures such as ours, traditional ones, return only in 25 years, provided that all 25 years are dry. After 25 years, new funds need to be invested for the recovery, repair and maintenance of these systems, which are only paid in 7-8 years. Gentlemen, if the Ministry of Agriculture spends money exclusively on irrigation systems and you don't adopt such and similar laws, when you're finally done with those systems and you finish them, you're watering weeds, not plant cultures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7617	The last registered speaker is MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft law supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. I have decided to speak and also support the proposal to supplement this law because investments in agriculture are far more useful than any other investment. Also, I believe that the proposal of a colleague of Marjanski is good and economically justified, with a clear explanation of why this law should be adopted. When proposing this year's budget, I advocated, with my SPS colleagues, that more funds should be allocated to the agrarian budget, because this is only one proposal that can increase the contribution from agriculture. More proposals will likely arrive to correct the Agricultural Land Act. Agriculture laws should always have priority for a number of reasons, and that is -- agriculture is the biggest hall for production, without roofs, under the clear sky. All agricultural production has places on the world market. The food went into export even when we had sanctions and we were attacked, bombed. A colleague of Marjanski's wanted to help protect agricultural land from weeds, and to take appropriate measures against disasters that can befall farmers, which are floods, droughts, winds, Korovic plants. And I would add protection from the city, because this disaster, these days, is causing us the greatest damage in agriculture. The city's protection is not organised throughout Serbia, and a special programme should be developed in this area. In an explanation, it was tabled as to how much land protection would be for farmers from wild cheese and how much protection this would increase agricultural production. In that part, I have nothing to add or take away. It's a shame we don't have anyone here from the government or the Department of Agriculture to professionally explain this issue. If Vesenov, as Minister of Agriculture, is too busy with other jobs, then it could have been one of the assistants or deputy ministers or one of the experts from the Ministry, because this country pays all that dearly. Perhaps the minister is uninformed not to attend the session of the Serb Unity Party's members seeking his shift. And finally, as much as we care about solving problems in agriculture, it shows today in the congregation. When we talked about protecting children from drugs, the hall was full. When we started discussing agriculture, the hall was empty and we were working without a quorum. It's clear where the bigger profit is. And drugs affect whether someone digs in the field or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7619	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7620	I think it would be my turn if only a few words from the SRS parliamentary group said at the end of this debate. We filed this bill three months ago. Even the explanation says it would be good before spring sowing, which you know is after that it's over, for this law to be on the agenda. It was not our wish, and today's debate on our part was not directed so that any political points are being made. We have enough points, commenting on the everyday life we live in, just like you're trying to score points on what we did until you came to power. But I would only instruct you not to look at the bill's proposals by signature or by the seal of the parliamentary group that submitted the bill. Not every law that bears an SRS is bad, so bad that you don't vote for it even though you know it touches a very sensitive matter that should be regulated. Just like everything that comes from the West or from your ranks, it doesn't matter, so you have to vote for everything just because it comes from most, where you couldn't affect anything at all. I've seen many of you in doubt and in some tax laws, in some of the items in the budget, where your senses have forced you to react a little differently, but discipline has decided differently. I could even understand that, when the government answers, when it responds to a proposal coming from the opposition. It is truly strange that the government has silenced the amendment and addition of the Law on Agricultural Land, that it has not even sent a representative to today's session. He could've gone out for the pay phone more than once. He could at least say if we were going as a society, as a nation that depends on Vojvodina and food, if we were going to fight it in what way. We gave you this bill of law so that it could be a joint investment of state and peasants. And it can't be said that the state has no interest in helping the peasant. It's an economy. As he sows, protects, sows, so give birth to him. The state doesn't care. That's not true. Then why would you give the benefit of oil, or promise to give it, and you didn't give it. This time, both the peasant and the state are investing in a field, where they will be able to immediately know from the state's offering what part of it is, for that stake that she gave, that the farmer is not only born again, but that he has a healthy country for at least a few years and that he doesn't care whether he gives birth or not. Don't just, in principle, suggest radicals, not good, because by that principle they led you to say that NATO bombing wasn't bad too, just because NATO was bombing, so it was against Milosevic and against the government, it wasn't bad against the people. I recommend you adopt this bill because you would show us that one important segment of society, that one large population, one large mass of voters, has the right to vote for you. And, besides the fact that we want the country to be healthy, that there's enough food on it, no matter what power it is, whether it's bad or good, we didn't have any other motives for this bill. I hope you accept this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7621	He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7622	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the job of the MPs to discuss the draft laws on the agenda, so I will use my right to answer the obligation. Mr Marjanski, although an MP of the SRS, is an MP who, with his performance, is a striking appearance of the party's representative, whose MP club he belongs to, and the way he explained this law is indeed something that is pleasantly different from anything that preceded his performance, or which followed in the area in which his fellow MPs advocated to vote in favour of this law. In fact, this is a bill that changes only one member's amendments to the existing legislation, which was established in 1992 by the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Land, and is practically changed by an additional, more thorough definition of the term under which agricultural protection was meant in the current law. In addition to which we need to plead today, it is said that under the protection of agricultural land, within the meaning of this law, it covers and prevents natural disasters, by taking appropriate measures to preserve agricultural land. Elemental disasters are floods, droughts, winds, weeds, etc. It is a bill that, even in my opinion, and in the opinion of all MPs, stemmed from our reality and the problem that is real. However, we as the Assembly must implement existing laws, which define the area treated by this bill and see if there may be any law, which is unfortunately rare, or not even applicable at all. If we behave in this way, then we will see that there is, and in 1984, a legally regulated area of plant protection against disease and pests by the Law on Plant Protection and that, at the same time in 1993, a regulation was adopted, a sublegal act, which further specify the obligations, through the type and contents of the measures that the user of processed agricultural land is obliged to apply to its use. I'm not saying that this law is bad, but it's too much in itself, because we already have laws that have not been applied to this day. We can discuss how one such outcome is coming, but certainly, as Parliament, we cannot multiply legislation, when the existing regulation is not the regulation that has been applied. We, as a new authority -- some will say that it lasts eight months, the Republic government was established at the end of January and we recently marked the first 100 days -- expressed our intentions in the area of agriculture and in the area of defining the obligations that we have as a state towards agricultural producers. We are not running away from these obligations, and today we can say to what extent we have responded to what we have suggested in our first parliamentary appearances, or in the election campaign, which is often mentioned through criticism of the opposition. I'm not accusing anyone, I'm merely declaring arguments and facts - when we took over the management of our country, among other things, and the responsibility for the situation in agriculture, one kilogram of mineral fertilizer was worth 3.2 kg of wheat. Today one kilo of that same fertilizer is worth 1.2 kg of wheat, one liter of diesel is worth 10 liters of milk, today one liter of diesel is worth 1.5 l of milk. One litre of herbicide was worth 1,100 kg of corn, today the same litre of herbicide is worth 250 kg of corn. I remind you that in the debate on sales taxes and reforms in the field of fiscal policy, we have freed sales taxes on agricultural machinery, seed, fruit material, fertilisers, herbicides, pesticides, where we have made a major step in terms of improving the circumstances in which agricultural producers exist today, that this is what we have done so far. That's not our maximum. Maybe it's the most expensive. We are not running away from the fact that today a kilogram of corn in Serbia is more expensive than anywhere in Europe, but the parity is different, than it was by January of the month, and certainly, through all this I have brought to you as arguments and facts, this relationship will change, not in favour of DOS, but in favour of agricultural producers. It's not an area of co-optial policy, because if we define the rights and obligations of farmers, peasants, as we change in power, and in opposition, this society won't get far. There is a segment of politics and political rights and obligations, there is something that is in itself broader than that. I'm telling you that we lived in a society that defined that area by the 1984 law, and that law is not bad. He's good, he just hasn't been applied in the last 10 years. That is why we have faced something that is so disastrous in itself, such as MPs' instructions, whether they came from the ranks of opposition or position. But our reserve, according to this bill, is not a reserve to the problem, not according to Mr. Marjanski's intentions, but simply stems from one real knowledge that laws cannot be passed that regulate those areas that are already regulated by existing laws, no less or less.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7623	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7624	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if I'm disabled to speak now as the last reported participant in the debate, after the final words given by the distinguished colleagues, the heads of the SRS and DOS parliamentary groups, but that's how it came to me, so I'm going to use these few minutes to say what I intended to say. So today we have a principle debate or debate on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, proposed by the MP of the SRS, Mr Marjanski. Right now, I would also say that if I were to say first, as I am now saying last in today's debate, that I consider the initiative, the proposal and the creativity of Mr. Marjanski in proposing this law, and especially in the arguments he made for his proposal, to be extremely good, and that he can certainly get praise, and of course, my sympathy for this relationship. I am also saying this because, when we were considering proposals on minors, and before that, the Bill on Support for Small and Medium Enterprises, proposed by the SPS parliamentary group, was among some participants in the debate from the parliamentary group of parliamentary majority dispute rights, in terms of suggestion, whether we have credibility, etc., whether what we were then proposing, and now it is Mr Marjanski, propaganda, whether it is the political marketing of our parties, whether it is a desire to enter some congregation history, by proposing the law, etc. Now let me say, as far as I'm concerned, none of this stands, although we have the right, in the extreme line, both by the Constitution and by the law and by the Rules of Procedure, because in Rule 128. The Rules of Procedure simply states that the MP has a duty and the right to propose legal projects, which is also done on this occasion. Right away, I don't personally think this law is reformal and that in that sense it's radical, that it really proposes something that would be extraterrestrial, but, hands to heart, or the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so far, have not been at that level. Most of them were laws on amendments and additions or the laws on the abolition of somezacons. In that sense, I think this is what Mr. Marjanski suggested, perhaps some progress. What is evident is the way the initiative and the proposal of this law have been welcomed. Of course, I'm not defending this right now because the MPs of the SRS supported our legal projects, the Socialist Party, as I really think. The answer given by the Committee, in my opinion, is really easy, and the answer given by the government on three sides, I think a great deal of effort has been made, and I personally think it was better that what they wrote was written in terms of the support of the law than they refused. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Minister, Dr. Veselinov, who has been authorized in the government report to explain the views why the law is not accepted. I don't think there's any dispute, that no MP in parliament thinks differently right now, except that agriculture is at this point, and it was yesterday, and it's day after yesterday, and it's going to be one of the most important economic branches in our Republic tomorrow and from the point of view of stabilising economic flows and from the point of view of food production and from the point of view of any products that could go to export as well. Therefore, agricultural land and its protection, promotion and preservation, is a fundamental assumption that any production could be achieved at all. What I'm trying to say is completely on the line of what my colleague said. That's this -- it's important and important, I think that a big accent or too much accent is given on an orphan. Mr. Nicholic showed what that meant. What the law says, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, doesn't speak of an orphan at all. It is said that "the protection of agricultural land, within the meaning of this law, includes the prevention of natural disasters (floats, droughts, winds, grasslands) by taking appropriate measures to preserve agricultural land". (President: Time. Ladies and gentlemen, that can't be at all controversial, that general definition. That should be the general policy of the government. The fact that an illustration or what was given as an argument gives an emphasis on an orphan is only one reason for me to accept such a law. Finally, the conclusion reads - for the implementation of this job in the repression of orphans, without the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, agriculture, regardless of the sector of production, is unable to organise itself. Secondly, the funds invested would return in a very short period and allow the country's economy to take the first place in Europe and the world, which it had in years ago. Thirdly, the implementation of these measures could completely eliminate another danger that has prevailed over agriculture, which is gold. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I am in full support of the bill. We, as an ambassador group, will vote for him. And I invite you to vote. You're not voting for an orphan, you're voting for Article 1. The agricultural law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7625	Please explain in the end whether we talked about the sorghum today or not. Now we've heard we haven't talked about the sorghum at all. That's what brought me into the dilemma now. Mr. Marjanski, there's no closing word. If it's a second call, it's only five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7626	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that I am a member of the SRS, of the 350,000 members, the membership number of my ticket is 78. Those of you who have traveled through Vojvodina and Serbia and in the chariot have looked at orphans and weeds, I have nothing against it; however, the essence is in something else: those who process and work the land, they know what is weed, they know what attacks our plants. I didn't want to, and it wasn't my intention to be remembered as the MP of the opposition who adopted the Bill on the Protection of Agricultural Land. That wasn't my intention at all, I didn't even think about it. The funds I've planned have been calculated into the law I've given. One is true, when it was calculated, I handed it over three months ago, there was a price change, there was a reduction of some chemicals, and there was an increase in the price of corn and wheat. One minute the corn was 42 marks, now it's 35 feet away. Is there any elemental accidents? You see, he who cultivates the earth, he knows, the city comes along, he beats up a narrow part of the surface. This country, if it doesn't produce fruit this year, next year it can work. If that happens at the end of spring, the country can be processed again. The orphan wasn't since yesterday, the orphan wasn't from ten years ago. The first intensive working of the sorghum was 69-70s. That's when it could have been controlled. There came a time when it couldn't be controlled. Unfortunately, today we pay our taxes to the sorghum and to all the other weeds and gold coins that affect the harvesting of the offering. One thing I'm surprised at is that a man who lives in a village is working the land so that he can say that an orphan is being eradicated by a hoax. He can't. No one's ever pulled an orphan out of their roots and taken it out to the left to burn it. I don't think that makes sense. Which means destroying the sorghum five Fridays. That's what the villagers applied and did. After wheat, on the slope, every Friday, it means five Fridays plow the ground, twenty to thirty centimeters. It's one way to destroy an orphan. In the end, I'd like to tell you -- don't vote for Lazar Marjansky. Vote for the mats, for the peasants who rise at three o'clock after midnight feed the cattle, before dawn are in the field, for those blisters that feed all of us. There aren't any of them and us doing agricultural production, if we weren't doing it, if they weren't doing it, it'd probably be starving. If you don't want to vote for my law, if you love and appreciate the pair, peasants, do something. Sirak is a malignant tumor that spreads. There's a cure against this tumor. If the former regime had no strength, no hearing, no power or anything else, you have. Help these first-class fighters to fight for the existence of their family, for greater offerings and healthy food. It doesn't matter if there's a law or not. It doesn't matter whose it is. You bring some measures, do something to help the paors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-23-0.u7627	I'm finishing the initial search. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Agricultural Land Act in principle. For 39, against 118, with five abstentions, did not vote 9, a total of 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the bill in principle. Since the proposal for a law supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, which was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski, is not accepted in principle, pursuant to Article 133(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I find the procedure to be suspended. Gentlemen, it's 1900 hours, so I suggest we make a decision to finish today's work and resume tomorrow at 10.00 hours. I'm asking you to make your point. For 129, against 13, with four abstentions, no 18 votes, a total of 164 MPs are present. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I'd like to inform you that according to official records, this is some old record, today's session is attended by 111 MPs. I ask you to determine if we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, so I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the meetings of the following MPs: Dragan Kovacevic, Mihajlo Markovic, Borisvoje Mijatović, Velimir Živojnović, Dusan Budišin, Dragoljub Vojnović, Dragan Jočić, Miroslav Markicevic, Radomir Naumov, Boško Ristic, Zaharija Trnavčević, Vasilija Pavićić, Aleksandar Vatović, Živodarka Dacin, Zoran Mićović, Zoran Boskovic, Petar Mišić, Srđan Mihajlov, Branislav Pomorički, Milikav Petkovic, Milka Marinković, Pal Shandor, Dragisa Marinković, Atil Juhas, Karolj Kermeci, Radič Joković, Srdjan Sikimić, Natasa Milojevic, Predrag Stojanović, Predrag Stojanović. In the afternoon they are absent: Dragan Šormaz and Neda Arnerić, and in the afternoon Predrag Mijailović, Anita Beretic and Sinisa Mitrović. The delay was announced by Gordana Komic. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 25th item of the agenda: - A PROPOSAL FOR THE PUBLICATION OF THE UNUPPORTAINED Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government DR. GOVERNED BATIĆE Group of 23 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has submitted, according to Article 93(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 195(1) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Proposal for a vote of mistrust by the minister of justice and local self-government Dr Vladan Batic. The proposal was submitted to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the minister of justice and local self-government Dr Vladan Batic and the MPs. Before opening a search, I would like to inform you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and ask you: this item of the agenda, and there are two other proposals for the resolution of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, seems to me to be the point that is first on the agenda of the National Assembly since World War II. I think the debate on the confidence of the government or the debate on the confidence of one of the ministers in the government is one of the very important points that parliament has to deal with, and so does our parliament. But that is why I insist and demand and in conducting this session I will fully and strictly implement the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and will not allow this very important point, as I have said, to be produced in anything other than an argumentable debate on the proposal submitted by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Of course, we should all be aware of the responsibility, aware of the importance that such a subject is on the agenda of the congregation and that it should pass in the best possible order. The consequences of the possible different relationship between MPs during today's session are also very clear. I will openly tell you that this is the first time on the agenda of the National Assembly, if the session does not have the proper flow as provided for by the Rules of Procedure, it will be for a while and the last. I am opening an investigation into the motion to vote for mistrust from the minister of justice and local self-government Dr Vladan Batic. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Here you go.
