ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 205 MPs attend today's session. I ask that the count determine the number of MPs present in the room. I find that the count found that there are 216 MPs in the hall, and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs, calling for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, which was called upon by a group of 134 MPs of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, acting in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the First Emergency Session under emergency procedure, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, the following Dn e n i d 1 was identified. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act; 2. Proposal for a Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 3. The election of vice presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, it is proposed to make those points, in accordance with the provisions of Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are under review by emergency procedure. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF MINISTRATIVES You have received a bill submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS Parliamentary Group. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Vojkan Tomic, Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Marko Culibrk, Zoran Radovanovic and Branko Ružic. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which adopted the bill in principle and in particular. You received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee, which accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a principled search. He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, honourable MPs, at the beginning of today's session, I wish you successful work. We have an extremely important agenda point that is very important to the DOS Parliamentary Group, given that it stemmed from the majority democratic definition of our society, a commitment to change. The events that led the Democratic opposition to power during September and December of the month and to a democratic peaceful revolution in early October of the month showed the need for our society to change. We took this seriously, and immediately through the proposal for a law on ministries, we started a serious process of state reform, given that this law meets all the necessary preconditions for its launch. In fact, this law will end a period of half-life state order that created a government that was its own purpose. We do not want to go through this law to the ministries in controversy with representatives of other parliamentary clubs, since we think they have had enough opportunity to show this society how capable they are of solving the problems that shake it. After that, after my opening appearance, we will listen to you and use the rights that most citizens have given us through the elections. We expect you to take due account of the need for a proper relationship with us as soon as possible the constitution of the Republic government, which we have agreed through consultations in parliamentary clubs and which is the justification of our request for the urgent process of calling this extraordinary session and voting of this law. The analysis of the Ministry Act, which was carried out on the working bodies of this parliament, outlined certain amendments. On behalf of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, I can support one amendment by Mr. Vojkan Tomic. We'll talk about it during the session. Other amendments are not acceptable to us, although we do not recognise any bad intentions in them, but rather the wish of representatives of the parliamentary clubs to improve the work of the future government. Our view is that the future republican government must be efficient and economical. According to one such thinking, we have reconstructed the republican administration. The prerequisite for establishing a republican government is the vote of this ministry law. With careful analysis of the work materials we have prepared, you will see that we have not begun the root process of reforms in the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Religion, Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, Ministry of Urbanism and Construction, Ministry of Economy and Finance. We think that through the future work of Parliament, through agreement with you, through agreement with ministers, in accordance with the interests of our society, we will make the necessary legislative changes so that these ministries can function in accordance with our country's needs. At this point, we believe that the most important changes made in the Ministry of Justice and local self-government are. First of all, we think of the fact that the new government will implement Serbia's broad decentralisation, so that the affairs of regulation of local self-government will be significantly different than before. So far, the Ministry of Local Self-Government has acted, in our opinion, as a repressive and control body. This has led to serious problems in our country, whose witnesses we ourselves are. It sought to prevent citizens from exercising their fundamental rights, which is the fundamental right to decide fate. The rights of local self-government have been suspended, and the suspension process began with the loss of local elections in 1996. We intend to start the process of reforming society by restoring broad rights to local self-government, and this will be the priority of this new ministry. Uniting the Ministry of Justice and local self-government has earned the necessary preconditions, which will lead to more efficient and economic work at the same time. I need to introduce you to the fact that there are 40,000 employees working in the Republic administration at this time, that most of them are retired, that their work, among other things, has been sufficiently qualified to assess our own electoral will, which has been expressed in the elections, which have remained behind us. Keeping records of citizens' associations will also become the job of the justice ministry, not the police, as has been the case so far. Examples of the ban on some associations in the past, such as the ban on the registration of the Student Organisation "Resist", are a classic example of the abuse of citizens' rights to unite, guaranteed by the Constitution. That's why the police aren't doing it anymore, it's the Department of Justice. That's what the Justice Department is going to control through the Justice and Administration Committee. In that committee, we are represented pro-proportionally in this House. I think it's a democratisation of the decision-making process, of the work, of the legislative relationship to everything that regulates our society. As far as the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation is concerned, it was introduced on the initiative of the future minister, whose concept you will be familiar with in more detail through Mr Djindjic's exposés and the appearance of the minister himself, and we are today being set up as a prerequisite for the talks here at Parliament. The Ministry of Business and Privatisation is a new ministry, it will carry out the tasks of the current Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Economic and Property Transformation of Ink Jobs, which will be the most directly introduced by the minister himself. The DOS does not separate these two processes, they are closely linked to us and therefore we insist that this ministry acts united in the future. The economy and privatisation are closely linked and this ministry will not only worry about the economy and economic development, but also about the privatisation of businesses. We are witnessing a bad trend, about which we have met the public, accelerated privatisation during the last weeks of December and early January. That is why we will carry out the audit, and also through this parliament, these decisions, on privatising what this parliament will make, I believe, with general agreement. The ministry will implement a number of measures, deal with economic policy measures for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, co-ordinate jobs related to the assessment of the value of capital. It's a painful subject, which we've said a lot about, in our own way, over the past period. The ministry will carry out a review of the value estimates, which have been shown over the past period, and in this way we will protect our society. At the same time, it will connect our companies with strategic partners abroad. We will take care of the business of public enterprises, which are being destroyed at this time and at the same time take care of balanced regional development. As for the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, it has united jobs that have done trade and tourism so far. We think it's an effective way of economical work. We are practically through concepts, which will be presented here before you by the Minister of Trade, Tourism and Services, will practically tell you the method through which we believe that this unification is functional and in line with our intentions. As far as the Ministry of Economic Relations and Foreign Affairs is concerned, it has not been in office so far, given our country's status. Given the process of opening up to the world, which we have welcomed at the level of the federal state, given the intentions of the new republican government and the new republican authorities, this ministry will play an extremely important role. At the same time, under the work of the ministry, relations, which we had previously nurtured through the ministry with Serbs outside Serbia, will be united. That ministry itself wasn't functional. It is a painful subject, and I expect that there will be a lot of debate on this matter. Our intention is not to derogate relations with Serbs outside Serbia, but rather to improve this relationship in line with their interests. Their interests at the moment, above all, are the interests of economic nature, while through the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, at the level of the Republic's parliament here, whose powers will be extended by amending the Rules of Procedure, will open up the possibility of fostering relations, which so far have only been formally nurtured by the work of the Ministry of Serbs outside Serbia. Our relationship with our countrymen in other countries is sufficiently related to the policy that the government, defeated in the last elections, has led to them. I will not remind you of the discussions we had on sanctions on Drina, regarding relations with Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska's leadership, on relations with our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, on relations with the diaspora. We think that in the future we will be able to reconcile the interests of our society and the interests of the societies in which our countrymen live at this moment, respecting above all democratic principles. The Ministry of Labour and Employment will exist instead of the current Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. This does not mean that we have neglected these problems and obligations, arising from the work of the ministry so far, but have made some redistribution. The fighting and social issues will be in charge of the Ministry of Social Care in the future, and work and employment will be the only jurisdiction of this ministry. In the society we live in, we are witnesses that millions are unemployed. We don't have a precise record of the number of people looking for jobs right now. The problem of employment policy is very serious and therefore we think that there is a great need for this ministry. As for the Ministry of Social Affairs, it will take on certain obligations of the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and will take care of the creation of a social protection system, care for the family. It will take care of family and legal protection, custody, adoption, parental and child relations, family care, pension and disability insurance. We think that the law, which will structurally define the responsibilities of this ministry, will specify exactly everything that is the consequences of the distinction between the Ministry of Labour, the fight and the social issues and the formation of this Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry of Education is a very important topic for us. It unites the work of the Ministry of Higher and Higher Education and the Ministry of Sports through the Sports Administration so far. This ministry unites the activities of the Ministry of Education so far. In an analysis of the Government Act, which we have implemented, we have seen that the Assembly in the previous assembly has made a certain failure. Namely, a single ministry was formed without the amendment of the Government Act previously being made. This time we do not want to go that way, and therefore we expect you to respect our position that the Ministry of Education must unite, all activities at the level of education, regardless of whether they are higher and higher education or education at the level of the Ministry of Education, which was defined in the previous term. We have paid great attention to the question of the Ministry of Sports, and through this ministry, we want first of all to engage in amateur sports compared to top sports, according to which the Federal Ministry of Sports has obligations. Amateur sport is our best interest, and it tends primarily at school level. Therefore, a great deal of attention will be paid to amateur sports through the Sports Administration, a attention that certainly for many reasons could not have been devoted during the previous period. The Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection has united the work of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment. This does not mean that we give up our obligations, which have been promoted from the work of the two ministries, but rather our wish is that the unification of obligations and rights, which arise from these two ministries, in one place all necessary legal preconditions for more effective work are obtained. Since we have had serious consultations on this ministry law, which are primarily in connection with an emergency procedure, which this law was put into session of the Republic's parliament, I do not expect the representatives of the parliamentary clubs to use our agreement, which was reached at the end of last week, which does not call into question the urgency of this process. If we insist on respecting the laws and Rules of Procedure, then it is clear what the adverse consequences of not adopting this law and leaving a period of troublesome powerlessness in our society are. We have serious plans at the level of the Republic, we are facing certain deadlines that must be respected, and therefore we want to meet all the necessary requirements for the establishment of a republican government, which would take place Thursday at this Parliament's session. Like I said, we'll listen carefully to your attitudes. We've received amendments. They're not acceptable to us right now. We do not expect you to view it as a kind of self-will, but rather to allow respect and respect for the democratic principle, which gives the new government and ourselves as a congregation majority a minimum of 100 days to show the effects of this kind of reform. Since this is very important for us and represents a break-up with one half-life organization of state and society, which had the end of what it had and which speaks for itself enough about its quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u40	Thank you very much. Do any of the MPs want a word? Mr. Pelevic answered first, then Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u41	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only like to supplement Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, or correct him in the act when he said all the other parties had the chance to show how much they know and know in the past. The parliament happens to have a Serbian Unity Party, which was not in power, so I hope it does not apply to us. Too many hard words have been spoken, which I would not fully agree with, by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. That's not the point of my discussion. I support the urgent procedure under which this session is being organised, because we have also agreed on the previous two meetings of representatives of the parliamentary groups. Also, I think we need to educate the government as soon as possible, so that we can get out of powerlessness once already and that the government shows in the next period whether it knows or doesn't know it's government. In any case, it is in the interest of all Serbian citizens to have the government re-constituted as soon as possible, which is why the Serbian Unity Party has supported such a proposal to hold this extraordinary session. I'd like to say that this law has a lot of positive in it. First of all, it is positive that some ministries will join some other ministries, and they are not vital to the work and life of Serbian citizens. Also, I would like to say that it is good that the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation is organized, and I hope that the future government will give up the part of its proposal from the pre-election campaign, where it is said that the privatisation process will not start for two or three years. So, I hope this is corrected by the education of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. Also, I would like to point out that it is positive in this law and that it is in Article 6. The Ministry of Transport and Relations replaces the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, because the word link is general character, so it's a more appropriate term of telecommunications. Also, Article 7 is also positive for me, as the Ministry of Construction is being introduced instead of the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction. But what I can't agree with as a sports worker is that the Ministry of Sports is abolished. At the first session of parliamentary group representatives, we had this bill. I made that observation precisely because that first proposal, if I'm right, is absolutely not the name of the sport on behalf of the Ministry of Education at all, but it was only the Ministry of Education. I suppose the word sport in the Ministry of Education and Sports was included after my remarks. But that's not enough. I believe that sport in the past ten years has been the best Yugoslav and Serbian product, with which we went out into the world. Under difficult circumstances, under the circumstances of severe economic sanctions, under the conditions of constant wars, under the circumstances of the Yugoslav bombing, the cowardly bombing by the NATO Pact, our athletes have achieved the best results over the past 10 years. The Yugoslav flag and the Yugoslav anthem were seen all over the world. Yugoslavia was only recognized by sports. In a large part of its operation. I believe that if the work of all the ambassadors of Yugoslavia is compared in the past period, it cannot be compared to the successes of one, the only sport that he, as the ambassador of Yugoslavia, has achieved in the world. Anyone, basketball, volleyball, water polo, kick boxing, karate or other sports, who have returned almost after every competition, both European and worldly, and Olympics, with medals. That's why I don't see any reason to cancel the Department of Sports. If we remind ourselves that Federal Sports Minister Vojislav Andric said a few days ago that he had received money from the federal budget just enough to buy each athlete for a glass of acidic water, then we know what the relationship and the federal state towards sport is. I know colleagues from DOS will say that teams should be cared for by the Federal Ministry, but what about if Sport Minister Vojislav Andric came forward with this finding. 60 million dinars were won, so two million marks, which was said by Mr. Boricic, president of our best alliance in the last year, the gold medal winner at the Olympics, volleyball players, said it was only enough to settle the needs of the volleyball team, to prepare and perform at foreign competitions. We have about 70 sports representing our country abroad. What about the other 69 sports? The Serbian Sports Ministry, however it has worked in the past period, has helped the Yugoslav team. It should not be forgotten that in all Yugoslav teams, more than 85% of athletes are from Serbia. That is why the Ministry of Sports should remain that there is, to exist as the Ministry of Youth and Sports, because it is very important, because it is quite certain that in the coming years we will represent Yugoslavia in the best way, just through sports. If the Ministry of Sports is abolished, if it joins the Ministry of Education, it will be neither of the top nor the amateur sport. The Minister of Education will have so many problems in his portfolio, in education, as he had in his past years, because you know well how our educators live and in what state both primary and secondary and higher and higher education is. I'm talking about salaries, and I'm talking about the position of the entire school. So the minister won't be able to pay attention to sports, he won't be able to accept any sports officials, he won't be able to support any sports alliances. Word is, and it doesn't say it in the law, but it is said and told in the paper that one of the ministerial assistants will be in charge of sports. If sport has earned all these years of attention from only one assistant minister of sports, then it is not correct to the sports public. You have seen, in the past few days in almost all sports newspapers, the campaign has been launched and the highest sports authority in Yugoslavia has been asked, are they for the abolition or for the stay of the Ministry of Youth and Sports? Everyone on the list has made it clear that they are an important issue for the Ministry of Youth and Sports to remain, because that is an important issue for us for this country. As you know, sport has spent at least the money of all ministries in the past. I don't see any reason to absolutely abolish the Ministry of Sports. I'm also telling you this as a sports worker. I am a member of the presidency of the Yugoslav Olympic Committee, where the general agreement of all officials and all members of the Yugoslav Olympic Committee presidency is that the Youth and Sports Ministry remains. I am also president of a Yugoslav sports alliance, I am also vice-president of the World Generation for Kick Boxing and representative of Yugoslavia at the International Committee for Fair Play working at the MOP. So I'm talking to you as a sports worker and I'm telling you as a man who wants to take off his responsibility if most of this assembly decides to abolish the Ministry of Sports. The fact that it will be attached to education means absolutely nothing to us athletes and sportsmen. If we agree today, and if the amendments are adopted to remain the Ministry of Youth and Sports as a special ministry, the Serbian Unity Party will vote in favour of this law. If it remains claimed that the Sports Ministry joins the Ministry of Education, while practically abolishing itself, the Serbian Unity Party will not vote for the law. But be assured, gentlemen, that you will bear responsibility for complete and sporting and your other Yugoslav and Serbian public, because you will be those who have abolished sports and sports amateurism and top sports in Serbia and Yugoslavia. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u42	Mr. Ivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good day and respect. I estimate that today at the first extraordinary session in 2001, we have one task ahead of us, that each of us at the very beginning of the work of this assembly will consider what Parliament is doing in general. Why did citizens of all countries of the world seek to form parliaments in their countries? Why did Serbian citizens decide and go out to vote in the elections more than once in this country to have a 250-man parliament? I guess they decided because it is clear to them that if 250 thinking and responsible people sit in one room, that these people came to hear each other, to hear smart ideas and suggestions on the proposed proposals and were ready to agree, to agree in the interests of Serbian citizens, in the interests of the state and the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. They certainly didn't think to come here with an ultimatum, because if you come with an ultimatum, there's no need for this country to spend money on diaries, hotels, transportation of all of you here. It's enough for the four of us to sit down. Show democracy. [[jamour in the O.R.]] Democracy means respect for minority opinion. So let me talk. I have listened to you kindly and calmly, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, I think that all of us in this room worked in this direction yesterday, I would like to come here with suggestions, ready to hear these proposals, to be commented, to experience suggestions and then, not as an ultimatum, but to vote exactly as we do, because the proposal is that the final document should be so for the citizens of Serbia and how it is acceptable and better for them. In that sense, I want to say, if we're already talking, each of us in this room needs to know very well the fact that we're silent about. It is that 50% of Serbia's citizens did not go out in the 23 December elections. Both the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority should think about it: 50% of Serbian citizens did not come out. Therefore, our percentages are not only applied to 50%, but to 100%. Why the citizens of Serbia didn't come out, we can talk about it. We can discuss that the three-way agreement is respected only in the part relating to the obligations of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that in many parts and obligations signed by representatives of the three parties and guaranteed both presidents, both the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, are not respected. First of all, crisis headquarters, state television and a lot of things that were promised there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u44	Mr. Ivkovic, we're talking about the Ministry Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u45	I'm just talking about the Ministry Act, I'm talking about it all the time, because I'm trying to motivate Members of Parliament, who were elected by Serbian citizens, to listen to people who have comments on this law, because it's their interest that this law is right. As far as the Ministry Act itself is concerned, it is necessary to accept the fact that there are already found bodies in each country. As for the state administration in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there are also high-quality and good personnel, who certainly need to improve the material position, which was not envious, given the conditions in which the Republic of Serbia was. But the very fact of the continuity and knowledge of certain jobs that were here, which were well done, should exist in the one that proposed the law. With regard to proposing the law itself, I am here announcing the initiative of the Socialist Party of Serbia to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to contact the presidents of the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic of the Federal State and to provide us, the People's Representatives of the Republic of Serbia, the right and opportunity to participate in negotiations on relations in the Federation, in which the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia should certainly participate. I am talking about how well this law depends on the outcome of the Federation negotiations, on relations in the Federation and on the jurisdiction of certain republics in the Federation. Therefore, we are now in a situation where we have found a situation, that we have found the ministries and we have before us a bill of law and we have uncertain relations in the Federation. Whether to change certain things now, to create a predominant ministry that will be totally incompetent and with very weak answers to many of the questions spoken by counterpart Pelevic or to wait for a settlement of relations in the Federation and then really enter into certain reforms according to the defined state of the Federation. With regard to the bill that we are given here, one can see the finding given in the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is said - too massive and inconsistencies with the general legal and economic environment of the ministry. What does it look like? Even more massive ministries are being created and many of the authorities are losing weight for the citizens and for the state. First, shall we discuss what is the task of a minister? Basically, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is the minister in the government who holds a promotional role for the area for which he is responsible, which bears the right and obligation, which is responsible. I fear this law has been done so, given that artificial mergers have been made, the takeover of employees, equipment, chairs, computers, just to reduce the number of ministers, so that they can satisfy the ambitions of individual leaders to be vice presidents. I'm going to say it specifically. First, the Ministry of Education. I'll talk more about it when it comes to the amendment that I've made. The Ministry of Education, my dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, was responsible for 2,600 high and elementary schools. There are now 1,800 in Serbia's territory, with no part of Kosovo and Metohija. The Ministry of Education is responsible for children's kindergartens, is responsible for the student standard, is added to youth and sport, is added to higher education. That man who has to lead it must be a robot, not a man who can judge. So it's about one artificial merger. Furthermore, many important elements are lost for the state and for the family. The Department of Family and Children is being abolished. Was that accidentally introduced? It was deliberately introduced to promote family and children's problems, to take care of family and children. The Youth and Sports Ministry had a crucial task of designing free time for children and young people. You know, in that France, which many of you are very often invited to, there is a ministry, if you want to literally translate, a very respected Ministry of the Dolika. It's a ministry that worries that working people and children in their spare time will spend time avoiding all the monsters they've been exposed to, from drug abuse and alcoholism to sects. In the end, please, the artificial merger of the Ministry of Local Self-Government with the Ministry of Justice carries such one nonsensus. You see, the U.S. Department of Urban and Building proposal was made by us. It's exactly what you put in the proposal. We've suggested that residential-communal activities go to local self-government. I, proposing to this same assembly the Law on Community Works, did exactly that. It is an obligation of every local self-government to take care of residential-communal activities, and it should and must have the authority to do so. But how will a minister of justice think and care for rainy and fecal collectors, pipelines, garbage, etc.? So that just points to the fact that I'm estimating. This isn't about rationalization, this isn't about increased efficiency. This is about reducing the number of ministerial posts, in order to create premises for vice-presidential posts. So we have submitted amendments to try you in certain parts, and we will use that right to indicate what might be better than a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u46	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the basis for reducing the number of ministries is rational. The Republic of Serbia had a number of ministries that could not find a basis in the very concept of state administration and governance. It's a good thing it came out in front of the assembly with an initiative to reduce the number of ministries. But the proposal itself is not particularly rational, because it did not adhere to the consistent principle that each ministry is the highest authority of the state administration in a particular area and that it implies the exercise of state administration. Some ministries have been detained that won't run any state administrations. Earlier there were several ministries that no state administration had ever done. Who may have cared, as Mr. Ivkovic would have said, but he didn't minister to worry. The Minister shall be responsible for a specific area within his jurisdiction and shall exercise his authority. We can worry all of us, and the easiest thing to worry about is when we're not in a state organ, then he's the easiest to worry about. What are the proposed ministries beyond this logical concept that would be acceptable? First, it stands here, Ministry of Finance and Economy. And I'm convinced that whoever suggested this, who wrote this, and whoever suggested it here, that he wouldn't be able to explain to us what it means -- the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Maybe the Ministry of Political Economy. What does that mean? Especially when the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation is scheduled. And every other sector, the public sector in the economy has a special ministry such as energy and mining, or traffic and telecommunications, etc. Everything that needs to remain the public sector must also have its own ministry in the nature of things. Let us explain what the Ministry of Finance and Economy is. The finance ministry should exist, of course, but this supplement -- and the economy, is completely irrational. Then the question is raised here - why is the Ministry of Labour and Employment separate from the Ministry of Social Affairs. And, what it includes then, in itself, this sector of work and employment. What kind of state administration is going to do these things? If there's pension insurance, we know exactly what the state administration is doing in the pension insurance sector. It provides a pension payment, because I'm a pension fund couldn't get companies to pay off money. There's a state body that makes them do it. But how will the state do the job? Does that mean we'll have an administrative employment system again? How is the state going to do something to itself? So, in what way? What kind of government is this? It is not clear to the legislators of this legislative project. Secondly, it's obvious that the Ministry of Information is being abolished. But there's no rational explanation why it's being abolished. A rational explanation would be directed towards exposure who will, even formally, manage state media after the Ministry of Information has been abolished. Will it be the Assembly? The most logical thing would be to be a congregation. The Serbian Radical Party has unfortunately failed for 10 years to do so, or someone else. The state media has to be run by someone. Can't the one who grabs the media from the street and says, well, now we're independent. The state has to. It's got to be a state organ. It is natural to manage the authorities of the executive government - the government. But in many countries of the world, when it comes to state media, an exception is being made so that one administrative function is entrusted to the National Assembly, just to ensure that these state media are impartial and that the government does not abuse them by exercising executive power, since the executive power is established on the majority principle, and the legislative authority would have to be established on a proportionate basis. Then the question arises with the Ministry of Faith. We have so far had one Ministry of Faith, which had nothing to do because there was no agreement in the Serbian government to pass a law on religious communities, although the project of the law has been done by former Minister of Faith Milovanovic in time. There was no good will, and there was no consent. What could be the meaning of the Ministry of Faith? It won't run churches, right? Nor does anyone in their right mind think that the state could run churches now. But there's got to be something that the ministry is going to do through public administration. It can only be the suppression of the social religious sects. In that sense, the ministry has an excuse. Or, if that ministry is to be singled out, if religious is introduced, so it sets out from the Ministry of Education, so it only devotes itself to that issue, but then it should carry out the tasks of organising and state-controlled teaching in the case. Whether it's rational to isolate it from the Ministry of Education or not, that's a special question now. And what's particularly dangerous -- the concept of decentralisation that DOS stands for. I agree that local self-government many years ago, not in 1998, but much earlier, because since 1998, jurisdiction has not changed, unwarrantedly enough jurisdiction has been taken away. But I'm afraid the DOS pledge is going too extreme right now in the opposite direction. That now the clump moves to the extremes in the opposite direction, so that it can tear the country apart. There should be a careful, moderate approach, especially when we have a variety of tendencies that each municipality has its own police, that municipalities seize certain competences that are by the nature of matters of the state, and we will then, if accepted, have such a concept, the refugee of Serbia. Each municipality will be a small feud in which the highest powers and influences of the municipality's president, the head of the municipal government, the head of the municipal police, etc. This form of government can be devastating for our country and therefore the SRS will vote against this legal project.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u48	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this speaker has already been spoken of... The authorities. Let's just remember that a gentleman who's going to be here for a few days is going to be exposés and doctored on the subject of "Karl Marks and the problem of starting a critical theory of society" on July 23, 1979, so you who are a little older and living all those 50 years, half a century of government, remember where you've been all this time, to remember -- not bad. To talk here about the peaceful democratic October revolution, with the burned Parliament, and here yesterday someone commented behind my back that these rocks were tight, so I said -- that we didn't set fire to this assembly, to make it bigger, to make it more comfortable, and to set fire to the Federal. (Glass - theme. Wait a minute, we'll get to everything. In the end, the gentleman who first spoke here talked about it, so why can't I say the same thing? A peaceful democratic revolution with everything that's happened, with all the crisis headquarters, cowboy solutions and miracles that have happened, and that's still happening today, and the non-implementation of the agreement you gentlemen have signed, guaranteed by the president of the federal state, is just a dead letter on paper, and you haven't followed any of it, and you're talking about democracy, you're talking about three or four months of powerlessness. You'd need a pop here first, to do a crossover, because you're not an opposition. Are you -- democratic, it's a question, but you haven't been the opposition in months. So you should have taken the priest to cross you, if you can't do it yourself. We say, "Pop, and you baptize him as you wish, my friend." Then, whether it was a lapus or a declaration of the actual state of affairs, Mr Jovanovic said in a story about the ministry of economic relations with abroad, and mentioned Serbs in Kosovo, such as those abroad, and as far as I know they are still in Serbia. To talk about an amateur sport being held in schools, then, Mr. Jovanovic probably did something else, and he never did anything else. Respecting the role of sports at school, we absolutely can't say that it's enough arsenic that all that amateur sport will end up in schools alone - pushing the ball into the goal, into the basket, running and doing other things and those who don't go to school. What about them, they're a lot more than schoolgoers who start sports at school. And the protection of the environment to connect with something else, even if we didn't have it as a special ministry, gentlemen and ladies, about what you're hearing probably on your own, so at least these outsiders are talking, if you didn't understand, about everything that's going on after that 1999 and everything they've thrown at our heads, and it's not just radiation, it's not just... The plutonium inside, so remember, we had a new Sad (I'm from Beocino, which is there) burning the refinery for a few days and it didn't show, it was dark for a few days and it didn't shine at all. You who are closer to Panchev could have noticed the same thing. Well, if nothing had happened, now was the time for such a ministry to exist. Which you don't understand, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u50	The word is Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice president, you are facing Dusan Cvetkovic - Lesnjak, from Leskovec. Let me, with a few words, take away a very short time from you, try to address all of you, and first of all, to colleagues from DOS and young Mr Jovanovic, to turn to them in the front row and ask them to do it again, but human and correct, as the South of Serbia, who has suffered most in this time that has passed since the NATO bombing, to think again - whether it is necessary this moment to abolish the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Since I'm a man of technique, I'm going to say at least three reasons, which is why I think this time, not bad, but, I mean, it's going to be a crime towards us down in the south, to end this ministry. First, you remember that remote 1989, Serbia was never in an ecologically difficult situation, but it was after that cataclysm in Chernobyl. With circumstances, as a man who dealt with this problem, I watched, examined, examined the disaster of Chernobyl in Leskovec. I know what it was. The luck of the Chernobyl accident was that they were all short-lived elements. However, what happened to us in NATO syndrome, which we are baptizing at this point with some Balkan syndrome, and essentially NATO syndrome, when we in our country's territory have uranium 235, and uranium 238, and we have as many as 1,000 of those 300 grams of bullets, or bombs, I don't know what they're already called, which have fallen to our premises down in southern Serbia, I think that's the first reason why we don't have to end this ministry. Another reason -- the vast quantities of the most diverse, very harmful chemical agents, since I am a man of technology, not to mention them, but what happened to us in the Panchev refinery, in the refinery in Novi Sad, in Petrochemia, in the Luciani, not to mention this immediate surroundings of Belgrade, when it comes to Baric, I think it's also another reason why we should not remove the Ministry of Ecology right now, to call it so conditionally. And the third thing, what happened to us with artificial fertilizers, and what's going to happen to us if we don't re-launch them in our production, about everything that's been brought into our country, I think that's another reason that needs to point out that it's necessary for the Ministry of Ecology to survive in the new government as well. One more thing I have to say, and that is, if we want to export from our south (and that's the only thing we've been exporting) no fruit, and strawberry, and blackberry, and raspberries, there's got to be some Ministry of Ecology to have confidence, to issue confirmation that it's possible to go to Europe, that it's possible to go into the world. And this is not what I propose, this is what I propose on behalf of the Leskovac Ecological Movement, on behalf of the Greenieco movement from Grdelica, which lives on the premises of the Grdelica, which raised the reserve of the unique habitat, this Greenieco, the only plant that grows in those areas. So, woody environmentalists have suggested that in each municipality, in the Executive Board of the Assembly of the Municipality, a "green chair" is organized, so that environmentalology can be talked about at every session of the Assembly, and we, as their -- over, ask the question to abolish that ministry. And so, speaking again to Cedomir Jovanovic, who is my son's year-old, who has the same name, I ask him to think again on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group - whether at this point we should leave the Ministry of Ecology, or the Ministry of Environment, and thus help us down in southern Serbia and everyone in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u52	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u53	The respected presidency, respected colleagues, is the undeniable right of the winner in the election to regulate the organisation of the government in the most comprehensive way, but I'm sure you agree that it is also the uncontestable and right of the opposition to take a critical look at every concept offered. That's exactly the angle I'd like to try to point to some of the good and bad aspects of this bill, and some of the contents that I consider unspeakable, or even contradictory. Generally speaking, the fundamental intensity of the law means, for the reduction of the number of ministries, it can also mean a reduction in the costs of the state apparatus, but it is not desirable to do so at the expense, or at the expense of its efficiency. In this proposal, the reduction of the number of ministries is mainly done by the merger of two or more state bodies, which may result in certain relevant areas marginalising or drowning in others. If the rationalisation of the ministries is replaced by an enormous increase in the number of Deputy Prime Ministers, what has been suggested, and we know that the position of Deputy Prime Minister is mostly co-ordinated, then we come to the fact that every two or three ministries will be picked up by one vice president, which will certainly make the new government slower and more expensive. I'd like to say a few things about certain provisions of this law. The first refers to Article 2. Bills, i.e. Article 9 of the current text of the law relating to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The workaround lacks the obligation to provide solidarity for the removal of the consequences of elemental disasters, while this second obligation to provide funds to encourage development and development of underdeveloped areas has been transferred to the work of the second Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. I don't know if this is a slip, or if it's the programming of a new government. But as a socialist, I cannot reconcile with the fact that such a significant area is left completely unregulated, because these funds have been provided in much worse times, in times of sanctions and NATO aggression on our country, and now that the sanctions are gone, and when we are promised donations and humanitarian aid, this government says there is no power to provide the means to repair damage from elementary disasters, and we know that they are causing great damage to our citizens, especially farmers and that it significantly reduces the social product of this country. Article 3 provides for the merger of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Local Self-Government into a single ministry. I will be free to, from the position of the Justice Commissioner in the transitional government, responsibly argue that the Justice Ministry has a wide, complex and significant diapazon of business, even more large than it would be more rational to divide this existing Ministry of Justice and extract the affairs of the state administration and some other affairs it deals with, and not to add to it another significant ministry, such as the Ministry of Local Self-Government. I believe that the time before us will soon show all the unsustainability of this solution. The separation of housing-communal jobs, and in particular the regulation of the affairs of municipal organisations through a system of local self-government, I find it a good solution and useful for its further development. However, it is incomprehensible that transactions relating to the territorial organisation of the Republic simply disappeared from the work of this, as well as from all ministries, contrary to the express provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This fact itself, unless it is corrected in a further procedure, just to be appalled and everything else, makes this bill unacceptable and possibly incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 4 combines the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation in a quality way, and I particularly support the proposal of economic policy measures for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is absolutely consistent with the Socialist Party's programme definitions. The same applies to the new Ministry of Science, Technology and Development, where the preconditions are created to unite all mental potentials in the country and to become a function of general development. Changes in the work of the new Ministry of Social Affairs are also observed. Jobs related to the protection of the victims of fascist terror, civilian disabled wars, as well as the editing and maintenance of monuments, memorials and cemetery of fighters were left behind. Who bothers and why? Also, I find a very unfortunate marriage to combine complete education, from basic to university level, with the area of sport, which is completely marginalized. However, the difficult conditions for so-called small sports make these conditions even more difficult without the particular concern of the state. All in all, this law has its pluses and minuses, most have the right to adapt the way in which the government works to its needs, but if this law, as the head of the Parliament's group said, is the introduction to reforms, I think that this step could be more orderly, and more systematic and quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u54	There's a word from MP Bajic Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u55	I have given myself the right to comment on a segment of this law, which is the Law on Education and Sports. Namely, two reasons are for that. First, what I don't see from the proposed text is what the reasons were for the Ministry of Sports to be taken under the Ministry of Education and the second reason I've been in this area for over 30 years, which as an active athlete, as a sports worker is purely amateur, which is what I'm doing today. So, helping the youth and knowing absolutely all the problems that come from sports, I answered my word to point out that it was a mistake to bring these two ministries together. I'm not going to talk about top-notch sports, although it's really a fact and it's true that for the last ten years, the main window in the world, I'd say, and our world's greatest ambassador was a top-notch sport. But he's still somewhat resolved. However, I would refer to amateur sports as the largest base and base and that it is said to be done through school, which is incorrect. The only common point is that in amateur clubs there are children, whether primary, or secondary education, or students, who also attend classes, and in other clubs, schools, there is no influence at all. If we remind ourselves that we have thousands of amateur clubs, where hundreds of thousands of children are covered by this sport, and if we remind ourselves of what kind of vices are lurking, start with sects, junkies and various other vices, then I really don't see any visible reason why this ministry doesn't need and that it needs to be under the Ministry of Education, especially this Ministry of Education has a very big problem. And so these people who are in this ministry will be in one subordinate position. On the other hand, let me tell you, in amateur sport, there is a healthy backbone of our society, because through this amateur sport, healthy guys are created, socially and familyly useful, and that is the biggest price we have to respect. To save that money, but not at all rationalisation, which will be abolished by the sports minister is a very low price of multiple consequences that can happen. At this point, I wanted to say so much and for practical reasons, assessing all the problems in sports, but in due course, people who know these problems will surely understand what we've been saying today, and in due course I think the Ministry of Sports will be established.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u56	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3. The draft ministry law has been amended so far by Article 11. The ministry law, and this calls for a provision that is introduced into this law and says that the ministry of justice and local self-government will carry out the tasks of building a system of local self-government and territorial economy. So far, territorial organization has been discussed and will encourage and coordinate territorial economy and self-government. Article 6 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defined two autonomous provinces in the Republic of Serbia, and Articles 108 to 112. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has laid down constitutional competences and obligations of autonomous provinces. If this text is added to the public that local self-government will have much more ingenuity, but not in areas that are really important for local self-government, but in some state areas, then it is understandable what I have heard from the two presidents of municipalities, both of them from DOS, are both the presidents of municipalities, saying that their more sensitive status of municipalities will be something like Monaco. If that's what's really waiting for us, then the dark clouds are outsmarting over Serbia. Shall we now let all those who are well-developed, who have no economic resources, separate themselves from those to be supported, to be encouraged, to develop, to be helped? Are we going to break ties inside Serbia? Will the one from Vranjska Banja say - what do I care about Gadjin Han? Is that the intensity of the new government, the new law on local self-government? I expect you will have time to enforce the laws that this congregation will bring. I'd like to warn you not to overlook events in some enthusiasm, which may surprise you very much. You're one group of 18 completely different political entities. There's a bit of a mix between you right now, they don't give you any, and it's normal not to let you fight. But when you start to share, to harass, to sin, when Banja starts to be Monaco, what will it be of Serbia? You're still acting like you've won power in some municipalities, so you're in some kind of conflict with central government. No, you're not. The central government is yours. Don't give the constitutional powers of the central government to individuals you don't know at all, because 15 days ago they entered your political parties, and here they are sitting, most of them from the JUL, but there are also from the SPO. Whoever couldn't have a mandate...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u58	Mr. Nikolic, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u59	I'm absolutely holding on, and you listen a little more carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u60	Thank you for your suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u61	I warn you of the consequences of the law, Mr. President. Another major problem, which is imposed by this law, has led me to go out for a pay phone. The Ministry of Information is being abolished. There are no rational reasons, unless the Serbian government no longer wants to worry about informing Serbian citizens. If he wants to leave it formally to foreign agencies, foreign intelligence services and various organisations, which are financed from abroad to inform citizens of Serbia in their own way. Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia release information when it is due under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under Article 46(7), means of information, financed from the budget, to inform the public in a timely and impartial manner. And who's gonna take care of that? To whom will the citizen, whose rights are violated by the untimely and impartial work of public information funds, who is financed by the budget, who will complain and who will solve it? Next, who will propose, if you do not want the Assembly to propose both the director and the board of directors of RTS? Who's going to do this, who's going to propose to the government the director of RTS? Who's gonna do these jobs? I read your bill carefully, there's no information anywhere. There are only employees from the Ministry of Information at the Ministry of Justice and local self-government. But there's no information. And he's gone. Last night, I was watching the state log. Your representative in this assembly made a statement about yesterday's work in the Assembly and said there was no emergency session yesterday because Serbian radicals are used to fraud and lies. To God, everything was ready to pass this law yesterday, only radicals cheated on other partners in the congregation, used lies, and postponed the meeting for today. Well, that's not true, Mr. Jovanovic. You know very well, at 12.50 you handed over this bill...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u62	Mr. Nikolic, for the second time, please stick to the subject, this is a replica of yesterday's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u63	It's not a replica at all, listen up. Public information in Serbia is poor, there is no Ministry of Information. Yesterday at 12.50, you submitted this bill to the Serbian Parliament. How could that have been on the agenda yesterday? The assembly has two regular sessions, starting on March 1st. Now the Assembly is in an emergency session, which someone has to schedule -- the Serbian government, a third of the MPs, or to introduce an emergency situation on the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There's no emergency. Yesterday there were no MPs until the verification of the mandate, which could propose this law to the Assembly. Then why are you lying about radicals obstructing the work of the Assembly? Why is this broadcast by state television? Where's that reporter who didn't let any radicals say what was going on yesterday? Will the report be DOS monologues on state television? Well, we're used to it with socialists. Yeah, yeah, you were exactly the same. I guess you two are different. Not every government is going to beat the radicals. Last time JUL, and you were directing that bat, and now DOS and DOS representatives in this assembly. Well, it can't be done like that. Here's your chance, Mr. Jovanovic. Yesterday I heard Mr. President say you'd be standing up for the rule of law. It is not only the rule of law in which authorities and citizens behave in accordance with the law, but it is also the state in which laws are passed in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Well, yesterday couldn't comply with the Constitution and the law to keep this point on the agenda. Not because of the whim of the radicals, but because those who prescribe the deceased teach you this lesson, they write textbooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u64	There is a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u65	Mr. President, honourable MPs, I would like to make only a few objections to the Ministry Act, but I would like to ask that we settle some things already at the beginning. First, as for the appointment of the Assembly, you know that the Assembly was scheduled for 13.00 hours. But yesterday and today, we're too late. We can justify it for certain reasons, and I think the president has a job to do, which he has some things to do, to get us started in time. Second, as regards the relationship itself, there have been different objections, criticisms at the expense of certain groups, or MPs. I think it would be a good idea to overcome all these weaknesses and all that was bad and not call on what it was like. We start doing one new job as 250 MPs and I don't think it's a good thing that whenever someone else does, we're banging. I'm sorry, maybe some habits are probably long off the street brought here. But as far as I've looked at transfers in some of the world's parliaments, there's an opposition everywhere that usually beats. I don't see any reason for you, who are in power, to bother you, if you already have a two-thirds majority, you can't bring in a different, more civilized way, first of all, a democratic one that you stood up for. I think that's probably going to change, and it would be good if we could get this assembly into a new style of work, and then the situation would certainly be better. As far as the law itself is concerned, we heard from the beginning, it is good that there are fewer ministries, or ministers. It's probably gonna be some kind of savings, but I don't think so. It's not exactly because all those services, technical and other, are being taken over and doing their job within a particular ministry. I'm particularly interested, I don't know how the Ministry of Education and Sports will work. Mr Pelevic had just discussed and particularly advocated, as well as another number of MPs, that it is necessary, I simply cannot believe that one huge population of young people, which we say is our future, and sport, and we heard and we know what results we achieve in sports, suddenly now belong to the Ministry of Education. I don't remember that before. There are no such experiences in the world, and I don't know why it came here now, when it's known that the minister of education besides preschools, primary schools, high schools, higher schools and universities has won sports now. I think it's too much for Mr. Knezevic, for his weak shoulders, I think he can handle it. I don't know, if he was into sports, maybe he could. Secondly, when it comes to ecology, if there is a moment, and it's not just all about, I don't know, some ozone holes, etc., but it's about that, look at what cities look like, from the smallest city to the biggest, from the biggest, from Belgrade and beyond. If necessary, it's not just about laws, you see, we're missing funds, money, we're missing something else. We're trying, I'm working in education, so I know, and by looking at curricula and programs, I've seen that from first to fourth grade, there's almost not a single teaching unit on the environment, about protecting the human environment. We are trying now, and the legislator has been able to do so for a time, that every teaching unit, which is possible, in the cases, is incorporating the content from the environment, but it is not enough. You know that in the world, subject number one is an ecology. We're terminating immigration. The Ministry of Health and Ecology? Well, I think it might be better if it were the Ministry of Religion and Ecology, for example. I don't know, a healthy environment, a healthy spirit, a purification, so since there are people here who have made a lot of mistakes before, probably, maybe that's good too. Therefore, I propose that, in addition to the proposal that Mr Pelevic made and I do not think there are any arguments that the proposal is rejected, regardless of the comments that are now coming and no matter what the law may be voted on, but you must understand that all this discussion that was not intended for us to extend the work of the Assembly and the choice of the Government. The people of Serbia expect this to end as soon as possible, and therefore we ourselves, but not only to take down responsibility, but in some way to participate in helping us who have a vast majority, to at least change some of it, that is possible. I mean, first of all, let the Ministry of Education remain as suggested, even though we have a proposal in our club, which Mr. Ivkovic suggested earlier, it will probably explain better, to bring the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education together. Those who work at the university know that about 60% of the planned norms of class, or time, is funded for science, and 40% goes to education, or the other part. So it's completely, especially when the Ministry of Technology and Development is mentioned here. What now? If it's science, if it's education, then it's development. I think the best thing would be, starting from what I just said, we have a lot of schools, preschools, high school, basics, etc. that it is a huge population that this ministry remains the Ministry of Education and that the second ministry is the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education. Secondly, I support another Youth and Sports Ministry, there's no dilemma. What's third and most significant is what we're going to hit the most, and it's about ecologicality, that there's no logic, you see, there's no thinking of it being within the Ministry of Health. Ecology must find its place. Today we have or try, namely, even from primary school to form awareness, environmental consciousness in children. Later, like the director, you know, like, a lot of our factories have big chimneys, which pollute 100 km2s, so there's no money after that to solve it, so one filter can be put in. It's more in people's heads, not in money. So that's one of the reasons why I advocate these three ministries remain, means the Ministry of Protection of Human Environment. In the end, I'd only end up with one remark, and that's, maybe it's my habit to advocate this at the Ministry of Ecology. I've seen some co-workers, ladies, smoke here. As far as I know, this House doesn't smoke. You know, even on buses. I would ask that future practice be for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u66	Thank you very much. The word has been made by MP Boro Drakulovic, followed by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u67	My dear President, for the first time in my life, my colleagues are also dear, and I'd like to say that old saying to everyone who scratches it is itchy. Namely, these laws, the changes to the laws that have been announced here, I will say for the reason that I come from northern Serbia, let me say what, the established damn word, from the north of Vojvodina, where it will never mean the same thing that decentralisation means, as it does in Serbia. It's not a hammer that's a Saturday, it's not a hammer that's Topola, it's nothing that's a little guy, etc. I don't know if and how long we're going to divide to that extent, and someone's doing it well and fat. To pay the price, to pay the price and our differences, not realizing that we all live in one state of Serbia, because they all live in some other countries, mostly in their reserve states. I would ask, indeed, to pay attention to the changes in such laws, and here is a conglomerate of 18 parties, I'm not a member of the count, I don't believe they can count themselves either. I can't figure out what actually happened in Vojvodina, what actually happened in Vojvodina when those parties joined together and made that victory, artificially anyway, which, I'm sure and convinced, won't last. Please, you have the right to think what you think, and I'm going to think what I think. In 1988, 1989, she was the so-called "Yogurt Revolution" didn't last long, 10 years. This "bager" of yours is going to be much less, because you've been acting a little ruder than what we haven't trampled on the world. Believe me, this is true. I'm really not a man who hates someone, I'm a wartime military invalid, I'm a participant of all these damn and unfortunate wars, and above all, I'm very badly wounded, but I'm sure we'll all understand together, one day, I'm afraid late, I'd like to understand as soon as possible, to stand by each other's shoulders, to think about what we do, what's better for the Serbian people, the Serb brothers. It's the old truth we're not holding back. This time, I'd just like to do it this much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u68	Thank you. The word is by MP Dragan Markovic, followed by MP Radmilo Misovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been head of the Serbian Unity Party MPs' club lately getting a lot of letters. We will try to be constructive as a party in this room, that all that is good, any party to propose that we support and all that is bad, that any party suggest that we criticise. It is in our interest that the government is formed as soon as possible because in a large number of cities, in the last month, the increased price of services in public-communal enterprises is 100%, the price of heating, too, and we do not see that there are elements to justify these purchases. If it was 38 dinars in August of the month, and today it's 30 dinars, we've been lifted from our sanctions, I don't see any reason why they've raised the price of heating. We also got a mogul for democracy, oil for democracy, and we raised 250% of the price of heating for citizens, specifically in Jagodina. I've got to say something that wasn't normal for me, that even at the market, the public N.C. raised from one dinar to five dinars. Those who raised that price know what they're doing out there in that public facility. They don't seem to know what's going on out there. The Serbian Unity Party is not about abolishing the Ministry of Sports, not because we in our parliamentary group have a large number of successful athletes, today successful sports workers in sports clubs in Yugoslavia, but because we have contact with the youth every day. We believe that the Minister of Sports and the Ministry of Sports should remain for a reason, I will tell you one particular example, since I have two sports clubs, I have a kick-box club and a football club, I have a champion of Europe, a professional and amateur champion of Europe, I have two vice-sampiones of the world. It is his greatest honor to return from the European Championship to go to the Minister of Sports and get a plaque worth 500 dinars there. Furthermore, I ask you, Proposers, who will coordinate with sports alliances in Serbia? So far, it's been done by the Minister of Sports. We have to take care of sports, if we know that education is in very difficult condition and that, physically, whatever expert he is, the minister of education, he can't physically perform one function or another, or duty. Those who profit to be able to, it looks like they were engaged in sports or undressed in shorts only when they were recruited in the army. Gentlemen, you've hit on young people, right where the softest thing is. If we young people don't create conditions to play sports, then we can't expect mass in sports to occur, and when there's no mass in sports, then there's no success in sports. You know, I must say, that our president of the Serbian Unity Party, Professor. Borislav Pelevic is also the vice president of the World Kickbox Federation and that we are the most successful sport in 1999. Out of 25 medals, as many as all athletes won and all sports in Yugoslavia, we won 18 medals. We rightly have the right to discuss and demand that the ministerial post be maintained. For your information, I hope you haven't heard that this year Yugoslavia, thanks to its kickbox, is hosting the World Cup, where over 120 countries will arrive in Yugoslavia. The Serbian Unity Party is asking the proposing to withdraw its proposal and remain a sports minister, in order to develop sports and to help young people not to deal with crime, but to practice sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u70	He has the word of MP Radmilo Misovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u71	Dear MPs, since I am a former athlete, I was here in this House expecting to propose a law on sports, which has been imposed for ten years as one promise and previous authorities, which in my opinion and the opinion of my comrades from our party, would be the only solution to introduce order, both for athletes and for the entire youth of our country. We forget about the aggression the West has committed. I think the biggest aggression has been committed on our country's youth, unfortunately. We witnessed a lot of bad behavior, when we start from the fact that the school didn't work, that our youth was on the street for a long time. I think it's necessary for this ministry to remain, because I think it's been the last 10 years and when there's been a really big crisis in our country, I think a lot of investment, a lot of objects have been built, a lot of environments have been given to the hall. I think it's inconclusive that now, when this Parliament is formed and we should all find some patience and behavior, find a common language, think at least at the beginning that this people, if you will, see that we really think together, because this is in the interest of the state. I don't think political parties should be looking for points here. Secondly, what I'm saying is, looking at Chuck, from the aspect of Chuck, from the aspect of our club that brings together one thousand young people, I think there's such a set of people, that the parents of those children from all parties and that never, at least in the sport, have shown up to be politically divergent people and to argue. At least that should be an example, I think to this House, to take an example from sports. That's why I'd ask DOS representatives, promoters, at least if they had one more patience to think about it. However, we believe that the Ministry of Sports is very important, at least in one perspective of our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u72	There's a word from MP Dragan Pantelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I'm one of the more competent people and I can discuss this law that's being passed, about sports, and that I should, on my proposal and the proposal of the region of eastern Serbia, where I and the president are. The region of eastern Serbia consists of 720 football clubs, times 30. That's 21,000 athletes, plus four selections of 30. It's about 108,000 athletes, times four regions. That's 400,000 athletes. I would like to ask the legislator if he consulted us or the base to apply for a change of law. I thank you. I'll always be specific and competent. I'll answer to everything I'm represented for, and most of all, I'll represent sports.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u74	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Dragisa Binic, and last reported, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u75	Your Honor, I'm against what sport is involved in education. As a former athlete, I think sport and the Department of Sports should remain separate, as it has been so far. We're mixing the term of amateur and top-notch athletes here. To get to the top athlete, you need to get past that amateur sport. So, since primary school, then high school, so until you get what you wanted, that maximum in sports. DOS people separated, put us in a sport together with education. Mr. Jovanovic brought it up. I don't know if Mr. Jovanovic had a ball as a toy when he was a kid and decided to play us a sport. Mr. Jovanovic needs to know that the people of sports, the most fans of the Red Star, were there in the Assembly, when this happened, were in the front row. DOS people should know -- maybe by taking down the Department of Sports, they'll have three million people back on the streets. I hope that changes immediately. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u76	Thank you very much. Last reported is MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u77	The respected presidency, respected fellow Members, mentioned in the proposal for a law on ministries, that the law was adopted for reasons of efficiency in work and a higher degree of economicism. I'll only keep your attention for a few minutes and on one issue, one district, one ministry, which is hereby abolished and say that what has been said for this reason, when the particular ministry is concerned, does not stand. It's about local self-government. Namely, the draft law on ministries repeals the Law on Local Self-Government and adds to another special Law on the Ministry of Justice. A new job of the Ministry of Local Self-Government has been added to the reasons for the Justice Ministry's affairs, which are municipal activities. Everyone who lives and works in local self-government knows what municipal activity means for local self-government, especially for citizens' lives. In the context of this is the fact that the Ministry of Local Self-Government is added to the Ministry of Justice, which objectively means pushing local self-government to the margins and objectively inability of the Ministry of Justice to pay sufficient attention to this issue. The Department of Justice's diapazon is wide, complex and significant, and thus the Ministry of Justice will not be in a position to deal more significantly with local self-government. And local self-government is an important segment of a single society's political system, for both citizens and the state. For citizens, because at the first meat level the attitude of citizens is forming, that is, the state affects their lives, and, on the other hand, it is important for the state because it forms the attitude of citizens towards the state. Why is it bad that the Department of Local Self-Government is abolished? Because there is a large range of diversity in Serbia. Serbia is a heterogeneous state, both by population and by the size of units of local self-government, by their surface, by built infrastructure, by economic development, by national composition. All these reasons point to the need for the existence of one ministry, which would take care of local self-government and any corrective factor. The Ministry of Local Self-Government should exist because it helps to develop democracy, as rights and the most immediate democracy develop at that level. If the local administration is left to live on its own, to live its own life, the real danger is that we will reach closed continents, with local powers, with feuds and feudals, who will certainly perform their functions not for the benefit of the citizens. Local self-government is also important because it affects all things that make up the contents of citizens' lives, traffic, heating, utility, the state of cleanliness, the area of building land, all objectively requires that there is a special ministry to deal with local self-government. If some of the things or jobs by which municipalities and differences are left for them to organize and perform there is a real danger that citizens will not have equal conditions to enjoy rights at the level of local self-government, i.e. This objectively leads to their discrimination. The existence of a special Ministry of Local Self-Government is objectively important in light of the latest events that represent politicising local self-government or opening up some processes that can lead to the disintegration of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I am referring to the announcement of the formation of municipalities on a national basis, as we have in the Vojvodina case, that seven municipalities, where a national minority organizes local government, announced, and perhaps already did, have formed a community of municipalities on that basis. It is certainly not something that can be in the interest of the Serbian state and the well-being of all its citizens. I will show the politicisation of local self-government on two of the most pronounced examples, and this is the inability for local self-government to be established by the municipality of Ub and the municipality of Bela Palanka. In the municipality of Ub on 2 November, despite the parliamentary majority achieved by the SPS, the constitution of the SO is not allowed, or vice versa, when the parliamentary majority of the assembly is established, it is not allowed to enter the elected SO boards and do local self-government tasks. The second, perhaps even more drastic example is the municipality of Bela Palanka, where the 40th council, in which the SPS's parliamentary group has an absolute majority, of the so-called Unsatisfactory citizens are prevented from entering the SO building and running local self-government. In the end, I'll make one remark. The local self-government did have its autonomy and has it. Under the current law, the state intervened only in several cases, when local self-government was not working, when it was working badly or when it was working at the expense of the rights and interests of citizens. All this points to the need for a special ministry to take care of local self-government in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u78	Thank you. In the meantime, we got another application. He has the word MP Branislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u79	I will try not to repeat what has already been said, and much has been said in favour of making a quality proposal. I think that's why we're in this room. When something is lifted, you have to say what is lost and what is obtained. Every host in Serbia thinks first - when something removes a good calculation of what they get and what they lose. We're losing more ministries here, and the same number of people remains. We even predicted in the Law that there would be as many offices, the same tables, the same workers, even more, which means more expenses, and we lost some ministries. Are we doing this in the interest of Serbian citizens? In the whole thing, we will not make it easier for the citizens of Serbia. So in these parts of this Ministry Act, there'll be even more expenses than it's ever been before. We're abolishing the ministries, but we're increasing the number of Deputy Prime Ministers. I believe, and the public hearing, that if we want to increase the number of government vice-presidents that some of your party leaders, who are humiliated to call themselves ministers, will be better able to handle themselves better at the post of Deputy Prime Minister, and in this function they can work with several ministries and influence several ministries. We are not proposing this for us, nor for the SPS, but we are proposing this solution for the citizens of Serbia, because of many athletes, because of youth. It's a shame not to mention the word "young" in all these ministries. We still figured out where there'd be no sport. We put the sport at the education, at the Ministry where there'll never be anything for sport, but to lift the word "youth," to kick it out of the ministry, not to use anything and no one. I think there's a lot of young ambassadors in this room, which makes me happy, so we don't turn out to be cutting the branch we're standing on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u80	This was the last registered speaker. I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the MPs to enter the O.R. if they are still out of the O.R., and I ask that we determine the number of MPs present in the O.R. I find that the sittings are attended by 170 MPs. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Who's in, please raise your hand? (127) Who is against it? (60) (Glasses: Not a good number. ) I agree, in the meantime, MPs have come in, and I ask you that MPs take their seats, to count how many MPs there are in the hall and to repeat the vote. I ask the People's MPs not to leave the room, so that the number doesn't change. There are 205 MPs present in the hall. I'm putting a motion to vote. Who's for the bill in principle, please raise your hand? (141) Who's against it? (63) We have to realize that we will repeat the vote the third time. I'm sorry, I repeat the vote. It was 141 against 63 MPs. Has anyone abstained from voting? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. We had an amendment to Article 5. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Ivkovic and, in its essence, concerns Article 1. It's a bill of law. The amendment was discussed by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Does the reporter want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Justice and Administration has discussed the amendment of MP Branislav Ivkovic and has proposed that most of the votes not to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u82	I would ask the MPs who think this is fun, to leave the party outside the Assembly and to stick to the Rules of Procedure and try to be dignified in the Assembly. Whether the promoter, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u83	We have discussed Mr Branislav Ivkovic's amendment and he is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u84	Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected my esteemed colleague Professor Hiber to give an explanation of the position of most of his Committee on why the amendment, by majority vote, was not accepted. I also expected a slightly more concrete explanation from Mr Jovanovic, head of the DOS Parliamentary Group. Since that was not the case, I have an obligation, given that I was at the University, that I led the Ministry of Science and Technology and for seven years I was in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to state the views and reasons that led me to propose this amendment to you. It's about the position and abundance of work at the Ministry of Education, on the one hand, and the Ministry of Science and Technology, on the other hand, and what's most important is trying to use the most quality resources we have, which is our teaching and scientific research chamber at universities and research institutes and in economic units. Today, the education ministry is responsible for kindergartens, for 1,800 or 1,700 primary and secondary schools across Serbia, for student standards. Your bill also makes it responsible for six universities in Serbia. I hope that the heretic thoughts of some people who are in the transitional government, that the University of Pristina will be abolished, will not be realized and that is why I say six universities and the student standard is added and added to it by youth and sport. A whole conglomerate that can't fit in the head, not by any chance, of a man who has to be a promoter and a high-quality kindergarten and a promoter of quality work in elementary schools, reform in primary schools, work in high schools, possibly and reform, unfortunately I see them proposed by a candidate for a minister, where he says there will be paid schools, I guess the people have money to pay for schools, and that will have to be if such a local self-government is created to make the municipality say, well, now they're all my money. He'll still have to worry about higher education, and on top of all that, there's nothing about youth, their free time, the fight against drug abuse, alcoholism. As far as the Ministry of Science and Technology is concerned, and as far as the university in Serbia is concerned, every university professor, and especially I believe my colleagues in this room know that in every job description, in addition to teaching and teaching with students, they have a duty to do scientific research. All of us are significantly involved in scientific research projects. And it is a natural solution, a solution that exists in European countries as well, a solution that we have advocated earlier, which is to form the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, including more education. What is the goal of this solution? The goal of this solution is for the host team to, with a single seat, lead development in the area and universities and scientific research institutions and affirmatives their integration. The biggest problem we've had so far, it's an extremely bad track between scientific research at universities and research at institutes. This proposal, like this, gives the Ministry of Science and Science a chance to not double their jobs at the university, but to work in scientific research institutes on the one hand and open a space for a quality fit, a specific fit at developed institutes, which must be at the university and has a place to participate in scientific research at the universities themselves. So we would essentially create one place, one place of decision, one strategic place of planning to use scientific research potential from universities and research institutes and go towards development and to connect our economy with the scientific research staff we have. We have very positive experiences that have been achieved in our efforts to revive the government of the Republic of Serbia's economic and social programme, formed through further NATO aggression on our country. Just, I'd say, by developing small and medium-sized enterprises, which we've been working on, we've managed to make that connection happen. It turns out that the most common research workers from the university and the institute were ready to co-operate and co-operate with the economy. Therefore, this amendment, which is set in the current direction, in which, for example, in the neighbouring country of Croatia, we have the following concept that we have the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education. That the host government of the Republic of Serbia from there is programming the optimal use of resources that we have, both at universities and in scientific research institutions, to avoid duplication of capacities and personnel to take care of the development of young people uniquely, that we do not have an independent development of young staff in institutes and universities. The alternative you've proposed to force the Minister of Education to worry about what's going to happen to kindergartens. This must be a different approach to preschool education, secondary education and higher education. Do not look politically, forget that I am a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia and think domestically.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u86	Mr. President, I don't think you were at all right earlier when you warned a group of MPs about the laughter they heard. We did not laugh because we had fun, our laughter was the unbelief that there was indeed such a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 142(2) of the amendment, the President of the National Assembly shall refer to the legislator, the MPs, the committees responsible and the Government. We don't have any proof that governments are being sent to submit amendments You can laugh all you want, you know, but there's a huge difference between the rights and the former majority. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] Article 143 says: The legislator, the committees responsible, and the Government are obliged to consider amendments submitted to the draft law before the meeting of the National Assembly and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. Without this, it was not possible to approach the debate on amendments. We insist, firstly, on determining whether amendments have been delivered to the government at all. If they didn't, they'd be delivered to her. Since the Assembly is in an emergency session, it is given a very short period of time, not more than 24 hours. If the amendments have been sent to her, then the Government has declared why it has not sent the written text of its statement so far. Or to give us first official information, so let's see how we can proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u87	It reads in Article 159 - when the competent committees consider the draft law, whose examination is proposed by an emergency procedure, the National Assembly may decide to review the draft law immediately and without the reports given, by orally putting them on the table. If the Government fails to give an opinion on the draft law within the time limit set, the bill will also be considered without the government's opinion. You said the Rules of Procedure were broken. We found that the Rules of Procedure had not been broken, I gave you an interpretation, but you went beyond that. You're the one who suggested investigative actions. That's something else. So, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have determined that the Rules of Procedure has not been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u88	Are you giving me your word again?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u89	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u90	Mr. President, I'm a very good lawyer. and Professor of Law School [[Laughter]] Well, you laugh for the love of it, and as I said, I didn't propose any investigative work here, because I know very well what it is, what research is. [[Laughter]] All I'm asking here is to determine whether or not amendments have been made to the Government. Article 159, and that attitude you quoted is about the bill. I'm not dealing with the bill, I'm only dealing with the issue of amendments. And a member of 143 talks about laws and government, as well as Article 144 and so on. However, Article 151 here is very rigid, firmly set up and cannot be avoided by a strained legal interpretation. The amendments had to be delivered to the government and the government had to declare them. Of course, the government can just say -- we won't plead, we won't send it in writing. But then it must be written by the competent congregation authority and delivered here in writing to the MPs. So, to be delivered here, the government didn't want to make a statement. That would already be the reason on regular occasions for the government's downfall, for a vote of no confidence. Since this government is leaving anyway, there's no need to vote for mistrust, but we care about legal form here. We insist on respecting legal form, because where legal form is not respected, there is no legal order.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u91	Thank you. We will wait for what you asked for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u92	We have a representative of the government here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u93	Mr. Seselj has requested written proof. They'll get it, it'll get there soon enough. And after this part of the agenda, we'll take a break. [[Breathing pause]] The government received a draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act on 22 January 2001 with 90 contributions. Under the authority of the president of the National Assembly, the secretary of Georgia Maric did so. As far as the amendments are concerned, since the Government has not declared itself on the draft law and since it is not in the sitting, the amendments have not been delivered to the Government, and we are deciding without the opinion of the Government. (Employer Seselj asks for a word. We don't have a discussion anymore, you got the word twice. Let's go to the vote. Please state whether or not you think the Rules of Procedure have been broken in this case. Who's in? (28) So, 28 MPs feel that the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I can tell that the MPs have pleaded that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Employee Seselj asks for a word about a vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been a conflict of your political will and legal regulations here, which is very clear to the end. Secondly, Mr. President of the National Assembly said shortly before that the government was not in session. The government is always in session, until the new government is elected there is an old government and there is no fall and spring session in the government, the government is constantly ambushing both day and day, every moment there is a government and it is always in session. Whether there are specific sessions or not, that's another question. So that argument is not valid. Secondly, a draft law was submitted to the government, but it was not amended, and the Rules of Procedure said amendments had to be delivered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u95	Mr. Seselj, you continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u96	You've put on the vote actually my remark. I'm looking for something, and I'm not asking the Assembly to declare whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been broken, and you're putting it to the vote. I'm just asking, that I could vote on amendments, that I could be given the opinion of the Government or that I was written to give the position of the competent services, or the notice that the government didn't want to make a statement, that I could vote on amendments, rather than catch you in breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that you're finding that the white is not white, but black is not black, but white is white. You can vote here most of the time that it's summer, that it's 30 degrees outside, you can vote it all, and there's no need to stop you from voting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u97	Thank you very much. Since we have already decided on this, has anyone else come forward for the amendment submitted by MP Branislav Ivkovic? If no one ever answers for a word again, I ask that we determine the number of Members of the Parliament present in the O.R. I find 189 MPs present in the O.R. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Who's in, please raise your hand? (40) Who is against it? (125) I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk, who essentially refers to Article 1. It's a bill of law. This amendment has been discussed by the Committee on Justice and Administration, please inform the rapporteur of the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u98	The Committee on Justice and Administration discussed the amendment of MP Mark Culibrk, decided by majority that he would not support this amendment and would propose to the National Assembly not to adopt it. The written explanation is found in an explanation that the Committee adopted the law in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u99	Does the promoter, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u100	This amendment is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u101	Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u102	I suggested that you be in Article 5. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministry of Ministry in point 16 of the amendment, so that the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection is reformed and that the two ministries, the Ministry of Health and especially under the 16a of the Ministry of Environment Protection. I would not repeat it now, all of these reasons were presented by predecessors who spoke about this subject, but the billmaker said that the main reason was to reduce the predominant ministry. With this merger of the ministries, we'll get one bulky ministry. Also, when it comes to the efficiency and economy of the ministry's work, we cannot agree. I also don't want to talk about political settlements and staff agreements by opposition parties, since there have already been words. I'd like to say, first of all, that this is the way to look at it, that there is no special Ministry of Ecology. 31,500 grenades have been dropped on our land with charges of poored uranium, and who knows what else, about 10 tons of waste. Then, all the toxic materials from the destroyed chemical plants, power plants, and others have already come into water, soil, and air. Who knows how food pollution will occur and how it will affect the protection of our population. No one's talking about it. All the governments of Europe discussed this issue, even the European Parliament adopted a special convention on this, and only one of the official authorities in our country is not saying so. Why is that? Maybe it suits someone that there isn't a Ministry of Ecology, that they know exactly who's supposed to be doing what. The Ministry of Ecology should measure all elements of environmental protection and regularly inform the public. Then, the merger of functions in the field of administration, in the field of health and environmental science, is also incompatible. It comes from the assumption that the Ministry of Health will deal only with the consequences, that when the reasons for an increase in a disease occurred, that mortality has increased, etc. I think we'll be dealing with only the consequences, not the causes and prevention of environmental and protection issues. Then, in the field of ecology, there is a whole spectrum to bring in normative acts, which are technical characters. There is, if you didn't know, ISO 14000, which deals with the system of environmental protection. The ministry should propose a normative act and adopt conventions in international environmental law, to place them with us, especially in order to protect large contaminants, large plants. I think it would be a prevention if the dirty technology from Europe didn't move into our factories, which is on its way. Also, perhaps the most important reason, if there were one ministry that cared about it, would not happen, but is happening unfortunately in our country, that a very powerful nuclear lobby, under the company of NGOs, scientific assistance to our country and journalists, is going to be looking for suitable locations to store nuclear waste. We cannot allow our country to become a dump for Europe. That's why I think there should be a special Ministry of Ecology.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u103	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. If no one ever answers for a word again, we move to a vote. I would like to ask you before the vote to determine the number of MPs present in the room. I find that 195 MPs are present in the O.R. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Who's in? (38) Who's against it? (134) Supported. No, there isn't. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Radovanovic and Branko Ruzic, who essentially refers to Article 1. Proposal for a law and associated amendments thereto to Article 14, Article 22, Article 23 and Article 31. It's a bill of law. The amendment was discussed by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u104	The Committee on Justice and Administration discussed the amendment of MPs Dr Zoran Radovanovic and Branko Ruzic and decided not to support the amendment and to propose to the National Assembly not to adopt it. The reasons are set out in the written explanation why the Committee adopted the law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u105	Does the promoter, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u106	The amendment is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u107	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u108	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, I am Branko Ruzic, an MP in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I believe that when proposing this law, the proponents were led, above all, by pragmaticism rather than by the desire to rationalise the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This legislative proposal envisions the formation of the Ministry of Education and Sports and the abolition of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In this way, an extremely important area for each country, the area of social care for youth and sport, remains uncovered, and in this area, particularly the social organisation of young people, the protection of the socio-economic position of young people, the fight against juvenile delinquency, disease of addiction, the spread of environmental awareness among young people etc. In my opinion, the Youth and Sports Ministry should not and should not be a burden to our society at all. Sport deserves much more attention than it is offered by this legal proposal and by bringing to one administration within a massive ministry. This proposal practically raises the problem of sports financing. It should also be borne in mind, therefore, according to this proposal put forward by the proposer, that the authorities of the relevant ministry will be preschool institutions, then, only 1,500 primary schools in the Republic of Serbia, five university centres, with one university centre that is in a specific situation, which is Pristina University. I wonder if the future minister will ever be able to bear this great burden that you place on his shoulders. Also, I don't see that sport will have a place that deserves to be in our society. The fact is, too, that no one here can dispute, that our top athletes in the past decade have best affirmed our country in international contexts. For this reason, I sincerely hope, i.e., I was hoping before this presentation of the Committee on Justice and Administration's position, that you will revise your rigid position as Mr. Jovanovic put forward and that you will adopt our amendment, because accepting your legal proposal, in terms of sport and youth, will certainly cause an odymism in the public, and you will be the one to bear objective responsibility. I would also point out in the end that the reason for our amendment is based on the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u109	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? People's MPs point out that there is little hearing from the pay phone in the O.R., so please, if that can be increased a little bit. There is a word from MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u111	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, my colleague Branko Ruzic and I had the idea that, in agreement with fellow SPS colleagues, we propose to put an amendment to this bill, taking into account how much it means to young people and what it means to this country in general, what it means to this country, the Youth and Sports Ministry. If you consider that the phenomenon of drugs, the increased use of alcohol, intoxicating and the emergence of religious sects has led to the appearance of exceptional criminalisation in the young world as a form of behaviour in Serbia, we think that the abolition of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is something that will leave a mark on the generations behind. As Mr Jovanovic explained in his opening statement to me and probably Serbian citizens that history has been written since 24 September, 5 October and possibly 23 December, I have been keeping a diary since then, it seems that I was born then, I do not think such moves and your efforts for 10 years of fighting for democracy and your preparation of 10 years for the conquest of power show that the preparations have not been well done. This is what your proposals will do and leave a deep mark in Serbia at all. You have a lot of funny colleagues. [[GROANING]] On the other hand, the Ministry of Youth and Sports of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period has done a lot for young people in Serbia. Over a hundred buildings in Serbia are currently being built, sports facilities. A lot has been done in the registration and reregistering of clubs, as many hundreds of thousands of young people are directly related to clubs. Therefore, you target the direct population, primarily our children. When an analysis of the free time, the daily activities of young people is carried out, we can share that time into three time continents: in time spent in the family, in time spent at school or in college and in - leisure time. These first two time continents include young people who are under family or school control, are engaged in certain activities, but this third, free time, leaves space when young people very easily succumb to the challenges of the modern world. The federal government and the federal constitution, the federal state in its text, the Constitution has no preamble, attitude, nothing relating to the organisation of physical culture, sport, youth in the state. The federal government has the Department of Sports. In our constitution, it all exists. We have a constitutional decree that we are fighting for the rights of young people, for physical culture, for sport, to take care of the social organization of youth, and we are abolishing the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Since you have a lot of funny colleagues, you have been saying that one-mindedness ruled in Serbia, it is impossible that, apart from the people of the Serbian Unity Party and our Socialists, none of you, since 186, have reported that this bill is not good. So, as these young men say, "we're just watching you." [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u112	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next speaker, I suggest that in accordance with Article 83. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, let us make a decision to extend the work of today's session. I suggest we finish all work today on all points of the agenda. I ask the People's Messengers to declare it. Who's in? (156). Who's against it? Nobody. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. I find that we have made a decision to extend today’s session, i.e. We'll be working until the end of all the agenda points. We are continuing to discuss the amendment submitted by MPs Zoran Radovanovic and Branko Ruzic. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u113	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues and colleagues, my name is Dragan Todorovic and I come from Pirota. I would argue that this time we have a little more hearing and more feelings for the problem which is on the agenda and for the work of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which in the previous period has contributed greatly to the development of all young people in our country, and since I come from the only city that is the center of the district, from Piroth, which has no sports hall, I have to draw attention and have a task by young people from our city, which our respected colleague and my friend Tomislav Panajotovic from DOS knows very well, that indeed the pyrotic youth, who participated in all the political events, unbound for political colour, cannot praise and that he has the opportunity to devote his free time not only to the development of the professional plan, but also to the development of sports qualities and not to waste time in the cafes, things that draw attention and not to the more successful development. For all this, I would like to say that the Ministry of Youth and Sport remains, and, referring to my colleague Zoran Radovanovic's discussion, I must point out that a large number of young people have participated in events that have brought the current government to power and that DOS, by abolishing the Youth Ministry and sport, does not show adequate understanding in young people's problems and is not being compensated in the right way for what they have done for them. As a result, do not take my predecessor’s words too seriously, pay more attention to what the youth will say if such a law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u114	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I would ask that we determine the number of MPs present in the O.R. There are 185 MPs present in the hall. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Who's in, please raise your hand? (40) Who is against it? (121) Is anyone abstaining? (one MP) I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment by majority vote. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic, who essentially refers to Article 2. It's a bill of law. The amendment was discussed by the Committee on Justice and Administration. I'm asking your opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u115	The Justice and Administration Committee discussed the amendment of MP Dragan Tomic and decided to accept this amendment and to propose to the National Assembly to adopt it. It's about determining the ministry's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u116	Thank you. Does the promoter, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the DOS Group will, to the extent possible, respect its political rivals. Before I say our final position on the amendment, I want to tell you that it's very difficult to listen to all those words and attitudes that you explain to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, all those words and attitudes that you defend education and our universities, because they come most often from representatives of parties who have filled high school and student police stations, from representatives of parties who have shown the most repression at Serbian universities. So I ask you, out of the attitude that we have rejected all your proposals, you do not recognize our desire to deal with you as well as the way you've done it for the past 10 years. The proposed amendment is good for us, no matter what comes from the SPS. The state must take care of it, and therefore we accept fully everything your MP has suggested. We are asking the DOS parliamentary group to respect this position.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u118	Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u119	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are in a serious institution, not at a rally, in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, where we are considering a law on ministries, a law based on which the future government of the Republic of Serbia will work. As MPs, we have been obliged to read this law, to use all our knowledge and experience, to make the final version of the law, after considering it in this House, the version that will give guarantees to Serbian citizens that the government of the Republic of Serbia will be able and in an organisational sense to do the best it can. Here we all, as MPs, brought our knowledge, to the extent that we have it, and we announced and told the evaluation that it was, that the talk of the pre-glamoured ministries was brought down to the story of even more overwhelming ministries than it was, that the number of ministries would be reduced and the number of DOS leaders would be allowed to take vice-presidential seats. In that name, the Ministry of Youth and Sports is abolished and the promoter of amateur sports affirmation is lost in Serbia, an affirmation of youth struggle. Therefore, the SPS will submit in the next week a draft law on the protection of minors, to show and see that this country and how it has space, if it works in due time, to take care of youth and children. That's why we said that this country also has research institutions, and at universities has built potential, and that it has the obligation and the possibility that within the framework of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, it unites all scientific and research potential, directs it to co-operation with the economy, directs it to us to use our potential, not just to watch what anyone out there can give us and help us. This humanitarian aid, which we receive, is not equal to interest on our frozen assets, which the enemies of this country hold for more than 10 years across America, Germany and other countries. Therefore, gentlemen, about what the amendments have been submitted by the Socialists, they have tolerated them not because of you from DOS, but because of the citizens of Serbia, in a desire to explain to you from DOS and that you understand and understand - this is parliament, a parliament that implies conversation and agreement, not ultimatum. The fact that you accepted the amendment by Dragan Tomic, which makes sense, you should have accepted the other amendments. Here, on the fact that, by proposing a law on ministries, you forgot to think about socially endangered residents, amidst natural disasters and earthquakes, it shows how important your citizens are to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u120	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If no one is answering for a word anymore, I would ask that we determine before the vote the number of MPs present in the hall. But the amendment was accepted, I'm sorry, there's no need to vote. (Glasses: There must be a vote. All right. We'll still determine the number of people present in the O.R. I find there are 197 MPs present in the O.R. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Who's in? (171) Who's against it? Nobody. ( b) Who is abstaining? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. Does the promoter, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u121	Since the activities of the future Ministry of Science, Technology and Development are harmonised, the amendment is acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u122	Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody. ) If no one is answering for a word, please determine before voting the number of MPs present in the hall. I find that 198 MPs are present. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Who's in? (166) Who's against it? Nobody. ( b) Who is abstaining? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? Nobody. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I would like to ask you before the vote to determine the number of MPs present in the room. I find that the sittings are attended by 200 MPs. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act in general. Who's in, please raise your hand? (138) Who's against it? (66) Who abstains? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed the bill in general. Let me ask you if we should take a break or continue our work. (Glass: Let's keep working.) ) We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision amending the employees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a motion for a decision, which was tabled by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia. You have received amendments to the motion for a decision, submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, the president of the Serbian Unity Party's MP, Dusan Prorokovic and Mr Radojko Petrovic. You have received reports from the Legislative and Administrative Committee. I'm opening a unique search. Does the promoter want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament are fulfilled part of the agreement reached in consultations with representatives of the remaining parliamentary parties. The agreement is binding on the DOS Parliamentary Group. During yesterday's session, the Serbian Radical Party is an agreement and the rights arising from it have been denied, with the conclusion that these rights would not support me, since in our opinion the right to follow and certain obligations, where radicals were not ready to abide. In the case of the Serbian Unity Party, it is a principled position, where their candidacy for vice president cannot be supported, although already by clear distance of radicals from rights, where it could be counted on as the fifth vice president, the vice-presidential post remains open. In spite of the Serbian Radical Party's stance not to exercise the right that we have come before them on the basis of held consultations, we will vote to amend the Rules of Procedure, which will respect our suggestions and extend the number of vice-presidents from four to five. We think that in full and absolutely realistic terms, in line with democratic principles, the will of citizens shown in the December 23rd elections would be respected. In fact, I don't need to remind you of the proportional relationship of power in this House, but at the same time I want to remind you of one rule, which was a small but yet negligible part of the democratic process in the work of our predecessors in this house. In fact, the opposition has always had vice-presidential seats. We are today defending this principle, because we think that this shows respect for the citizens' will, who supported the parliamentary lists of the opposition parties today. And a parliamentary list of the SPS, whose vice president we also elected yesterday, which we will open with our votes today the opportunity to highlight the Vice-President's candidacy. If they don't do something like that, I don't think we're obliged to take care of it, they're obliged to account for that kind of policy to citizens, of whom they've asked for support. In any case, of all those who participate in Parliament's work, we expect them to actively contribute to making the best decisions, which will be in line with the interests of the state and society in which we live. That is why, despite a paradox that monitors this kind of vote, we will leave the possibility for the Serbian Radical Party to, at the moment it assesses, highlight the candidacy for its vice president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u124	Do any of the MPs want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I didn't mean to answer the word at all, but I am forced now because of these untruths said by Cedomir Jovanovic. First, no deal has been reached. If a deal had been reached, it would have already been known about the deal. Where's that deal, what, what? The agreement in Parliament is being reached comprehensively for all working bodies and all parliamentary functions. There's no deal, because DOS insisted that three committees be established first, and then the other committees for a certain time, who knows when. Secondly, Serbian radicals did not need to introduce a new vice-presidential post, so they could also participate on the basis of their strength. When basic congregation functions are calculated, you will see very easily that it was not necessary, unless DOS had a desire for three vice-presidential positions, not two or one. The question is whether or not one would fit him, since the office of Parliament's president is much more difficult and has much more real political weight than 10 vice-presidential seats. Mr. Martian said - more than 17 and I think he's right about that. But I don't see why you still need to mortify the congregation on that basis. If we've said it once -- it's impossible to agree, so we're not going to make any more arrangements, why are you mortifying the entire National Assembly on this matter now? We don't understand that at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u126	Who else wants a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u127	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is interesting and indicative of what he said about the speaker head of the DOS Parliamentary Group. We do not understand why DOS does not want Mr. Dragan Markovic, who was proposed by the Serbian Unity Party, while proposing to extend the number of vice-presidential posts and, in that sense, tabled an amendment to the amendment of Article 17. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The place has been offered to radicals for two days, they persistently reject it, very principledly, and DOS is re-allocating it to the Serbian Radical Party again, saying it is out of the question in any event that one of the vice presidents is from the Serbian Unity Party. At least very strange, I'd say interesting, but also very indicative, I don't understand absolutely why. The Serbian Unity Party has shown during these two days that it is a correct, constructive, right opposition in this parliament, that all proposals, from either side, will come, and the good ones, support, and that all proposals, from which parliamentary parties came, and in our opinion are not good, will criticise. But be assured, our criticism will always be well-intentioned and will always strive to bring about the right solutions that will go towards the improvement of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why this way of talking in Parliament by Mr Jovanovic is very surprising to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u128	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) We have an amendment to Article 1, which was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legal and the Administrative Committee has not adopted the amendment. Does the motion for a decision accept the amendment? No, I don't. ) The Proposer does not accept the amendment. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Before voting, please determine the number of MPs present in the hall. I find that the sittings are attended by 185 MPs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Who's in? (15) Who is against it? (121) Is anyone abstaining? One. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Amendment to Article 3a. National MP Dusan Prorokovic tabled, proposing that Article 3a be added after Article 3a. Does the motion for a decision accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u129	Since a comprehensive reform of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly is planned, although this amendment is absolutely established, we will not support it, but will bring about the process of redefining the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament, which will cover both the activities, the rights and obligations of all other assembly working bodies, and the necessary changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u130	Thank you. Do we have the Committee's opinion? We don't have a reporter. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u131	As a promoter of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I had in mind that this was a direct consequence of the just adopted Ministry Act. Namely, I am a great supporter of what we have talked about many times today, and this is a reduction of the state administration, a rationalisation in a particular segment, but we must also refer to some critical objects, and that is that all the powers and rights that the Ministry of Relations with Serbs outside Serbia have been transferred to the power of the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad. It's not the only relationship that should exist between the queen and the diaspora. The relations that should exist between the queen and our compatriots living or in neighbouring countries, where they are in the status of national minorities and constitutive peoples or that part that is economic and political immigration, should be realised in many more fields than it is in the area of economics and financial donations alone. That's how the last regime worked, so we don't have to do it now. As a result, I suggested that such a single formulation should extend the work, description, and assignments of the congregation committee. This is not appropriate to the parliamentary practice that has so far ruled in Serbia, and it is appropriate to the parliamentary practice of some other countries. Also, I think that committee should take care not only of Serbs outside Serbia, but of all Serbian citizens, whatever nationality they are. We've been witnessing that there's been a lot of immigrants from this country in the last ten years. They weren't just Serbs. Large migrations were Hungarians, Slovaks and Croats from Vojvodina, Muslims from the Raska region. Whether in their country of origin, whether in some third countries, it doesn't matter. I think the Assembly Committee should deal with these issues in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u132	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? If no one ever hears from you again, I would like to ask you before the vote to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R. I agree that the sittings are attended by 192 MPs. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? (54) Who's against it? (48) Are there any abstentions? (37) I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petric submitted an amendment, proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. Does the motion for a decision accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u133	The answer is the same as in the previous case. In addition to the extensive amendments of the Rules of Procedure, the issues opened by this amendment will also be regulated. So we're not for this amendment right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u134	Thank you. Is anyone answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u135	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I am proposing this amendment, Radojko Petrovic of Prepolje. Let me briefly explain the motivation of proposing this amendment supplement. In this regard, Article 210 provides for the possibility that MPs, in order to carry out their parliamentary duties, may request explanations and information from the president of the Assembly, from the chairman of the Committee, from ministers and other managers of the institutions. However, there is nowhere to say that they have to answer or when they can get an answer. This seeks to raise the level of responsibility of the leaders, both here in the Assembly and in the Government and these institutions, to accept the MP within 7 days, to allow him or them to give him or give him a warrant to the appropriate service, to provide certain information and information. I think it is in the interest of all MPs, regardless of the political party's membership, any or any political arrangement. That's why I think the reason is pretty clear that it can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-01-23-0.u136	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, please determine the number of MPs present in the O.R. The session is attended by 164 MPs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Who's in? (29) Who is against it? (95) Abstained? No, there isn't. I find that the congregation has not accepted this amendment. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am concluding a unique search. I can establish the same number of present - 164 MPs. I put to the vote the draft decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Who's in? (128) Against? (19) Abstained? No, there isn't. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA since he is a member of the 17. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which has just been amended by the decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, found that the National Assembly has five vice-presidents, needs to elect another vice-president of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that until this moment, I have not received a single proposal for candidates to elect the Vice President of the Assembly. This does not qualify for working on this agenda. Allow me before I conclude the session, after we have completed our work on all points of the agenda of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to inform you that I received a request from a group of 133 MPs of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, for which the urgent maintenance of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, with the agenda contained in that request. Respecting the reasons contained in the request, I called for a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 for Thursday, January 25th, starting at 10.00pm. The conference for the Second Extraordinary Session was presented to you during this session. If you keep going out, you won't hear when you can be trained to work on using the electronic system, so be a little more patient. So, the call for the Second Extraordinary Session was presented during this session, and only one item of the agenda is provided for this session - the election of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask all MPs to attend this session. MPs can dress for the use of the electronic voting system one hour before the assembly session on Thursday. I'm closing the session of the First Extraordinary Session.
