ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it seems enough for me to just walk out of this hall and immediately run for the pay phone Cedomir Jovanovic and make a big deal out of it, to take the opportunity not to deny it at the moment. Last night, it was just before yesterday's session was over. He said, for this speaker, that it was true that a criminal case was being conducted against the president of the District Court in Žabari, but that the president was a member of the Serbian Radical Party and that he was my schoolmate. First, this man was never -- I guess his name is Dragan Djuric or something, and I might be wrong about the name -- a member of the Serbian Radical Party, which we established by reviewing our documentation, and we have very precise documentation of membership. Also, he was never my schoolmate, nor do I know who he was talking about. It is possible, as our members from the area drew attention to me, that he studied in Sarajevo, that we had completed our studies at the same university. There were tens of thousands of students. I can't remember that man. If he'd been a prominent student, I'd have remembered for sure. Then why lie like that? What's the crown thing, that man, apparently, for 18 years, has been the President of the Frog Court. The Serbian Radical Party has existed for 12 years. Then how can he be a member of the Serbian Radical Party? Earlier, Cedomir Jovanovic said that my mother was paid for free by the municipality, which is not true, which is a lie. No pay has been given to anyone for free. The neighbors, in addition to compensation, gave up three acres of their salary, three neighbors. That crying was attached to my mother's pay. Since it was city building land, it could only be transferred across the municipality. It wasn't a possible sale. That salary was not sold, nor was it for sale, nor was it possible to sell. How long are you going to use those lies? I understand the situation you're in. It is very difficult to fight against Serbian radicals when you have no counter arguments. We catch you in crime, in illegal actions, in counter-constitutional action, we reveal to you various affairs, we take you down in the parades and break up political and legal concepts, and you have nothing to say to radicals, except that you hate us and, from time to time, invent us, so you place behind your back, when we're not present, or you publish through the political voice "The Sunday Telegraph". But there are short legs in a lie, as in all these lies by Ceda Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12041	There's a word from MP Zeljo Huric. After him, MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12042	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, respected and respected citizens, I really had no intention of discussing it, because I felt that, when it comes to legal issues, I should primarily give the word to the lawyers, but because of some discussions you heard during the second day of the extraordinary session, some and yesterday, I was simply forced to say the word - two. On the basis of these discussions, it was possible to get the impression that support for the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar was given to Mr Zlatan Kurtovic by the Sandzak Democratic Party. The situation is completely different. The party's support for the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar was enjoyed by two candidates: Izet Suljovic and Iso Dolovac. We thought at least one of them would earn the support of the other members of the local DOS. At numerous meetings, held both at the level of the local DOS and at the level of the Justice Committee, the people we supported were challenged by some trivial and insignificant reasons, and our tenacity in disagreement over Mr Kurtovic was eventually declared by our obstruction and braking of the positive changes that should take place in the Sandzak area. Indeed, faced with the slow and, I would say, almost no changes, reluctantly and with a great deal of denial, we accepted in the end, so at the last moment, we also gave support to Mr Zlatan Kurtovic. As you know, Sandzak is to some extent a political blast area. From our point of view, however, when it comes to human change, there are mostly quality and professional people, because of this situation we have often given up, as was the case here. I want to say something about another phenomenon, which was happening when there was a change in the area in question, about a kind of non-discipline, which was that there was a certain role played by some political entities, which not only were they not members of the Democratic opposition of Serbia, but they were, and today they were our political opponents. This is indeed incorrect, even unfair, and worst of all, it is not only against the interests of the Sandzak Democratic Party, which is a member of the DOS, but I believe that this is also against the interests of the entire DOS, which is even worse against the interests of all citizens living in the area. And finally, I'd like to ask Mr. President to allow me to show two or three sentences that will be digression, but I hope he doesn't insult anyone. Namely, gentlemen, if that folk's "after the morning is known", I've been very specific this incomplete four minutes. And I expect you to, at least in today's session, avoid all the obstructions we've been experiencing over the last three days, in terms of interventions on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, in terms of fifteen-minute calls to determine the quorum, because, you know, there are those of us that are a few hundred miles away from our homes, we have unemployed wives, fourteen and over, instead of your two ara apartments, in some 20 squares of basement space. We should go back downstairs and secure the wood, the winter. There's a lot of hungry mouths, so I'm asking you one more time, to be more efficient and not to turn this high house into one stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12043	There is a word from the People's Messenger Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12044	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on Articles 206, 207, 208 and 209. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the President of the Committee on Justice, and now the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to provide me with all the complete documentation, i.e. Opinions prescribed by Article 42. The law on courts, which norms that the minister of justice obtains an opinion on professional, working and other conditions for the exercise of judicial office, for all candidates registered, from the colleges of the court, bodies or organisations in which the candidates performed legal professions. And attitude 2 - the same opinion by the minister of justice delivers, the opinion of the first member, together with his opinion, the competent body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I was denied, ladies and gentlemen, this right, because I asked the Justice Committee for this documentation, since I doubted everything that is going on these days, and these changes, additions, removals from the list, addition, verification, presentation of certain facts by the SRS MPs, and, in particular, by a stenogram from the Justice Committee, from which it can be seen that there are far apart opinions and facts and evidence that MPs should be informed when they make a decision and adopt proposals for all the presidents of municipal, county and economic courts. Therefore, I ask that, in the light of the provisions of these Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I be given the opportunity, as a MP, to gain insight, so that I may participate in the work and decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12045	Article 207 states that the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions needed to perform the function of the MP. At today's session, the function of the MP requires discussion and decision-making on the termination of office, resolution and selection of judicial holders. This appears on the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration, whose material you have obtained in good time, as there have been changes in the materials in relation to the proposed text, basic. You have also received a time-consuming material indicating that these changes are being made, i.e. the withdrawal of certain proposals. The overall documentation is and is being considered on the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the problem of MPs, or parliamentary groups that are not participating in the work of these Assembly committees, cannot be solved in this way as you propose, to move the Committee's competence and the materials that the Committee has held, to the meetings of the National Assembly itself. That's about my notice. The notice, or explanation you're asking the president of the Committee, at this point, you can't get it, because the president of the Committee isn't here, but if you were involved in the work, you'd have three months to get every notice. There is a word from the People's Messenger Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously the president of the National Assembly didn't get me very well, and I feel that the provision of members 207, 208 and 209 was not well interpreted. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I will only read Article 209, paragraph 3 and I would like to explain what this is about: "The Service of the National Assembly provides, within its tasks, conditions for the exercise of the function of the MP, and at their request - provides them with expert assistance... (but in the third position it says) -- it provides them with the use of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as well as additional documents on certain issues that are on the agenda of the National Assembly and the Committee of the National Assembly. "As the Justice Committee did not allow me to gain insight, this provision gives me the full right to seek and no one can misread this Rules of Procedure. It can, if someone wants to interpret it on their own, upside down and wrongly, but I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure as a lawyer -- it says here that MPs must be given certain materials, which they seek to perform their duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12047	Well, Mr. Jojic, that's why I should have a lot more difficulty interpreting this Rules of Procedure, unlike you, who were the minister of justice, so you should do it with ease. Ask for the service of the National Assembly, which is listed in Article 209. Rules of Procedure, to provide the information you're asking the Committee for. You can ask the committee by addressing the Committee of the Assembly, which will direct it through the ministry, and the service provided by Article 209, as part of its tasks. That's what it says here. The tasks of the National Assembly are not to prepare proposals related to this item of the agenda, etc. I don't know what you asked of the service. Did you ask for anything from the service? What you're asking for from the service is about the obligations of Article 209, the service is required to deliver to you. If you're looking for something, say it, and they'll deliver it to you, but not now, but after the session. That's not what we're discussing here. (Petar Jojic, from the scene: You have misread. I gave you an answer. You advertise the same members of the Rules of Procedure twice. (Petar Jojic, from the post: I appeal to another member. ( A) What member? You've advertised members 207, 208 and 209. I can't give you my word that you're advertising three times and we're having a discussion about it. You advertised, and I made a precedent and gave you an explanation for another time. (Petar Jojic, from the post: Article 208 states that "the MP has the right to ask for information and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly. ") I'm giving you an explanation. (Petar Jojic, from the place: But wrong.) You may not be satisfied. There is no provision here that the president is obliged to give a satisfactory explanation to the MP. (Petar Jojic, from the post: You are obliged to respect these three members. ) Please contact the Assembly Committee for what is in the committee’s jurisdiction. Contact the service for what is the jurisdiction of the service and you will get it. (Petar Jojic, from the place: I spoke to him, but he won't let me.) This is where the data is hidden. ( ) What does this have to do with Article 209? (Petar Jojic, from the place: Yes. There's no point in having a debate like this. Does the Assembly need to make a statement about your proposal? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several conclusions can be drawn from the debates so far, regardless of whether MPs who are partying in power or opposition MPs spoke of this item of the agenda. The first conclusion is that the situation in the judiciary is bad. They're absolutely right about each other. The situation in the judiciary is unbearablely bad. Members of the ruling parties say it is because of the devastating personnel policy of the previous, or previous regimes. And that's partly true. However, much more because of low incomes, because of impossible working conditions, due to unresolved housing problems, due to too many cases per judge and many other reasons more significant than human policy. I don't know who led the personnel policy when he brought you to this House, because you can't listen to your colleague's exposure, you're talking out loud. Staff policy during the dictatorial regime was largely led by former party justice executive secretary, and current Democrats from that phantom group G-17 Plus, Mr. Slobodan Vučetic. All the lists of judicial officials he had to make up, and if he didn't make them, then to review and sign, as a second executive. If you're interested in these lists, you can have them from your SPS colleagues. You will see from them who appointed judges and presidents of the courts, who participated in election thefts and other machinations. From them, you will see who brought the economist Ratko Butulius, whom you warmly attack here at the Serbian Constitutional Court. You will see that the Committee on Justice and Administration, in the period of the final sun of the Yugoslav judiciary, as you like to say, has been shaming, beholding miracles, a significant member of DOS - New Democracy, as it did in the coalition with the Socialists and at the time, as you say, is sunbathing of the Yugoslav economy. More specifically, if you destroy the judiciary, you will become a significant partner in power or will be elected judge of the Supreme Court. President, will you give a warning, with permanent use, without compensation, to Mr Jovanovic, that I may proceed? All members of the ruling parties say they are the best candidates and are the best personnel they have. I absolutely believe that. That's what you assured me from the documents you delivered with the candidates. It stands out like this -- from 34 candidates for office in the prosecution, none of them studied less than seven years, up to 16, and none of them have an average greater than 6.50. Here are your examples. Since I don't know the candidates personally, I'm not going to speak to them personally, I'm going to speak names. Zlatko Šulović, Valjevo - seven years old, Radiša Matic, Kragujevac - seven years old, Mirko Radisavljević, Kruševac - 13 years old. There are also better ones: Olivera Sekulić - Shošdean - 14 years old, Veronica Vencel - 11 years old, Vojislav Isailović - 10 years old, Gordana Stojanović - 11 years old, Olivera Todorovic - 10 years old, Branislava Vukković - 10 years old. Great students made a good trade. That's the case with both the judge and the president of the courts. However, you've changed every day, so maybe I'll be wrong about some man on this list, and until today we haven't gotten the papers to take it off. Janjic Snezana studied for 14 years, Žunić Borisvoje - 9 years and was never a judicial intern either, Ćoralić Gorica was never a judicial intern and never worked in court, and she studied for seven years, Panić Aleksandar from Titela was never a judicial intern, Tadic Mirjana was never a judicial intern. However, only Dr. Korhec Tamash was a judicial intern, but he is in the prime of youth at 64 years of age. The first of January 2002 is due to retire, and today we will choose him as a judge with a specified period of use of two months. Galimatias about jurisdiction and incompetence v.d. The cancer or the D.A.'s office has not been clarified yet. The Justice Committee has presented to us an unshakable explanation from which we can see that the Committee has given its consent. In his second position, he says the Committee is not in charge of setting up a prosecutor. In his third position, he said Mr. Ivanovic did not name Nedic. The fourth said the Committee accepted Nedic's appointment. He says that earlier V.D. the republic's public prosecutor has not issued any special authority to Dr Dragomir Nedic, and in the opinion of the Committee, such authority would not have been legal, given that Mr Ivanovic was to be retired by law several years ago. What happens to all those cases, the charges that Mr. Ivanovic filed at the time when he had to retire by law. Will there be an audit of these procedures? How many innocents and illegally accused and convicted lie in prisons in Serbia with the work of a man who could not perform the post. Regardless of this unfavorable explanation and opinion, with which most committee members agreed, I still believe Mr Nedic is an unauthorized promoter. If these are the best personnel you have, and I told you what kind of personnel you've ever had, I told you they've studied since they were 7-16 years old, I told you that the average is their grade, or not to go over 6.5, and I'm surprised that you cheated on Nis, so you ran for a man who ended up there before the law school deadline with a score of 9, but I think you just downloaded him on the Justice Committee because he doesn't fit into these miles of staff that you offered us. We heard yesterday insistence that Mrs Vasilic is elected president of the Senior Court of Commerce, and I don't know that lady, I heard she's a good judge, but she's 61, too. Is that Mr. Veterinar throwing it away? Until I came to this House, my dear gentlemen, and until I met your fellow vets, it was not clear to me why the English vets call it "primit... "and now I get it. Besides, who's going to be the judge, who's going to judge and how they're going to judge doesn't matter at all. All rulings will be made by the DOS political commissioner. When the state authorities fail to comply with the Supreme Court's verdicts... (President: Time. What are you going to do - time? Serbia's Supreme Court ruling does not respect the state's authority and what kind of recovery of the judiciary, the improvement of the judiciary and the dignity of the judiciary? There are judges seeking to confiscate immunity from MPs, although in the documents they have documents that have given up both the MUP and one prosecutor's office, and another prosecutor's office, and these judges are still in office. You bring your party colleagues to places.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12049	Mr. Vukurovich, I warn you, it's 11 minutes. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12050	I'll finish, but let me tell you that you're acting the way the Socialists acted, in a Catholic way with a significant party that today significantly participates in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12051	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic, and then Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12052	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have volunteered for a replica just to try to make a few facts about what is presented as an argument or a counter argument in the process of selecting the best people who will deal with the functions of the prosecution and the courts in our country, without the intention of accusing anyone. It seems to me that in the argument, we have reached for some words that are difficult to support with valid evidence and I cannot keep quiet the letters that came from Vranj and Nis. From Vranja, a letter from the judge who, among other things, is disappointed with the flat-rate views that are being issued at the expense of all the judges and all the employees in the judiciary and are giving criticism. I don't think it would be a good idea to do that in the future if we, as a member of the DOS, were in our positions that way, and I'm willing to accept that criticism and correct myself. As for the court in the municipality of Žabari, there is also a lot of things being said, a criminal verdict has been mentioned, and I have received a letter from this man and I am obliged to say that there are many pornic views and that it is best that the Committee on Justice, without prejudice and blame for anyone, deal with this solution. As for Mr. Seselj, I don't want to deal with his housing problems, I don't want to get into the problem of the SRS and its premises, I think that's what others should do and that we all have the same rights in that process. It was simply during yesterday's response to the whole series, the avalanche of unargued criticisms that demean individuals who are not here. We are obliged, as representatives of these people, to point to some inconsistencies. When a person from Lebanon is mentioned, it is not likely in this congregation that he has less rights than someone from Zemun. It would be good if, without mutually charged, especially unargumented, demeanors, which may be somewhat effective and politically beneficial, we were all in this topic at that point of view that is functional for our society in general. We are looking for the best candidates and let your representatives of the Committee on Justice and your MPs in the parliamentary benches participate. All those who are unjustly, without arguments or through arguments that have come only from one side, from this pay phone publicly called, deserve our public apology. I'm sorry, I'll be done in 10 seconds. And there's finally the question that I was talking about during my opening presentation, the question of our ability to reach the best people, given that there are procedurally very serious difficulties. To seek guarantees from the police, I think it's inconsistencies, and asking for guarantees from the people on the ground has proven to be problematic and I suggest we continue to practice a documentary argument that will reach the best candidates. I apologize to the President of Nis Business Court, who wrote to me, for his denial that he had ever served as secretary at the SPS in Nis. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12053	He just mentioned it, it's nothing in a negative context. He said he wouldn't do anything... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place where he spoke.) ) Based on the president of the DOS parliamentary group, which is at least one 10 times mentioned in a negative context, which he spoke of in the replica. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: He spoke of me in a negative context. What's positive for you is negative for me. ) It's not in a negative context, he just said he wouldn't deal with the apartment, but I'm deciding on it according to the Rules of Procedure. I don't give. [[Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Do you give me a replica?]] You have what, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. You have no right to a replica, only your name has been mentioned. [[Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Give me a replica]] (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure? You have no right, your word has been taken from you. You have no right to report to the Rules of Procedure because your word has been taken from you. Mr. Vukurovich, come in. Vojislav Seselj comes out for a pay phone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12054	Now I have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12055	Please leave the pay phone, or else you'll be taken from the pay phone, the others are gone. (Vojislav Seselje stands behind the pay phone: This bravado and this punk, who plays the president of the National Assembly, and the most corrupt is because he is from Kostunica's party. ) I propose to the National Assembly to bring a measure of distance from Mr Seselj from the National Assembly session, so I ask the National Assembly to declare it. For 89, against 39, there were no abstentions, there was no 46 vote, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has issued a measure of distance from the session of the People's MP to Mr. Seselj. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: she did not say. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Do you know how to add? I find that the National Assembly has made a decision and I ask the service to implement the decision of the National Assembly. I'm taking a break necessary for the security service to implement the National Assembly's decision. Please, MPs, we're going to have a break until we can solve this little problem. I ask the MPs to step out of the O.R., make it possible for the service to work easier. What about the press? ) Journalists, in my opinion, should not be forced, this is a historic moment, repeated. [[After a break.]] I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: By the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, the word has been given by the People's MP Alexander Vucic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 96, Section 1. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is said to be - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly expressed offensively on the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, (and the name and last name of the president of the SRS and the parliamentary group of Dr Vojislav Seselj) or misread his presentation (which was also the case, because he was talking about what Seselj wanted, and what Mr Jovanovic would not want to talk about further), the MP to whom the exposure relates has the right to replication. This isn't the first time and something like this happened last night. This shows what kind of violence the National Assembly President Dragan the Martian National Assembly wants to carry out. This is what I'm saying for the MPs, but also for the public. I suppose what DOS media, or all the media in Serbia, will say and how they will try to present what happened in the National Assembly session room. This kind of political-legal violence allows, without the right to respond to political opponents, it is indeed unrecorded. At a time when the SPS controlled the state, and yet there were other DOS parties, similar things happened, but not like this. Never because someone didn't want to give the replica, which was completely obvious, to one MP, after more insistence, because someone is afraid of three minutes of spoken words or I don't know what. And something like that has never happened, and because of that and after that, to bring those who are going to throw out and exorcise the MPs, it's something that represents the ultimate political cynicism, the worst non-altura and political opponents, and that can't exist towards those who think differently. If you think it can be done in Serbia in such a way, maybe it can. Maybe that's good, maybe through all your TVs and all your newspapers you'll be able to convince people that because he didn't get the Seselj line, because he didn't have the right to do it, and all the Serbian citizens who watched had the chance to make sure he had the right to do it. I'm sure that time is getting more and more and more people will understand. After all, it is no wonder that it is precisely the representatives of the party where the wife of the president of the party, the wife of the president of the state... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... He's writing a new constitution. I'll show you that in the next presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12058	The measure given to the People's Parliament to Mr. Seselj is the fourth measure for these three days, which is spoken to the People's Messenger, Mr. Seselj. He was told the measure of warning: first, second, and the measure of taking away words. Mr. Seselj was not entitled to a replica, so the replica was not given to him. The President of the Assembly is hereby authorised to establish this right, according to the Rules of Procedure which you have partially quoted, aware that this authority by the President of the Assembly has. Mr. Seselj and his name are mentioned, but not in an offensive context. No offense, no misread of his words. Therefore, there was no basis for the replica, nor did Mr. Seselj, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, seek out, and he was right and did not exercise that right, to make the National Assembly known. (Employee Vukic, from the place: Replica. ) Do not throw me away while I give you an explanation according to the Rules of Procedure that I am obliged to give you. And it's rude, arrogant and incorrect behavior. Who do you complain to here, Mr. Wolfie, about harassing and persecuting political opponents? Learn order and conduct in the National Assembly. There will be no need to apply the Rules of Procedure, to express the measures of reminders and confiscation of words, discharge from the O.R. [[Applause]] You'll get your word when I've completed my obligation to the Rules of Procedure. After that, Mr. Seselj demanded to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He had no right to do so, which he knows very well, and so do you, because yesterday a word was taken from him for breaking the Rules of Procedure. Then he continued to break the Rules of Procedure, went out for a pay phone, and demanded to be physically away from the gym. Its wish has been met, following the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What are you talking about, Mr. Wolfie? What communist times of persecution? Somewhere the boundaries of the primitives must be set, somewhere within the limits of respect for the National Assembly must be set up. Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from the scene: You curse the mother to the MPs. We can slander ourselves privately, on the street, on apartments and towers as much as we want. We can insult ourselves as much as we want. We can tell all the lies we want. At the speaker of the National Assembly, every MP of the people is required to observe what the National Assembly has adopted. Excuse me, on what grounds are you looking for a word? According to the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure, you can only ask that the National Assembly be declared unless you are satisfied with my explanation. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: Are you giving me the right to a replica? I'm looking for a replica. You do not have the right to reply, because I was merely fulfilling the duties of the President of the Assembly, or the Chairman, explaining, explaining your objection... (Alexander Vuceic (stands): Let's get to the bottom of this, shall we... [[don't you give me the right to a replica?]] (Alexander Vukic): Do you give me the right to reply? Can't you ask me, can I ask you in the Rules of Procedure, are you asking the National Assembly to plead? You're not looking. So go back to your seat and look for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12059	I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12060	Go back to your seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12061	Are you giving me the right to speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12062	Go back to your seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12063	You're not going to humiliate anyone in this congregation, are you giving me a replica? Are you giving me a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12064	You know you can't approach a pay phone without permission from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12065	Are you giving me the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12066	There's no replica room here, I'm not giving you a replica, because there's no basis for replication. How many times do I have to tell you? The MP does not have the right to reply when the President of the National Assembly gives an explanation of the objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and is obliged to do so. Unless the MP is satisfied with this explanation, he may ask the National Assembly to make a statement. Mr. Vukic was asked if he wanted the National Assembly to plead, he didn't want it to happen. We can keep working. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure. ) Is it the same member or not? (Alexander Vukic, from the place: No, the other is a member. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to article 99. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, gave himself the right to insult the MPs and to assess who is primitive, who is arrogant, and the most arrogant and primitive in the entire National Assembly is Dragan Marscanin, once vice president of the DSS, once president of the National Assembly. There's no doubt about that. None, because it shows by its behaviour, it shows by its attitude towards all MPs and has proved it to all and to all Serbia. (From O.R.: Theme. ) A man who is able, that's the subject, that's the subject, that's what I'm talking about. Don't yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12068	Let's hear Mr. Vukic explain the violation of Rules of Procedure and Rule 99.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12069	Yes, from Article 99, you've read it well and you've quoted it well. So, it would be good if you were less insulting to the MPs, if you tried less to talk about what parliament is and what isn't. We're not talking about communist persecution, you're much worse than them. At that time, the women of the president of the state never wrote a constitution. Here are your letters and books, constitutional solutions for Serbia and the SRJ. Zorica Radovic, wife of Vojislav Kostunica, writes to us the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12070	Will you consider persecuting inexperience if I give you a warning about what you're saying and you abuse a pay phone?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12071	What am I talking about Mira Markovic? It's not Mira. It's Zorica Radovic. Because it says the Constitution, that's why you're giving me a warning. Is that why you're giving me a warning? Are you saying that I said something primitive again? Because I'm telling you the truth, because I'm telling you what hurts you, so it's arrogant and ossium.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12072	But beyond what you've come forward for, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12073	I volunteered for your arrogance, your primitives, your passions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12074	Mr. Wolfie, I take your word. Since there was no objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but to abuse of the right to report upon breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have nothing to answer about it. Mr. Vukic requests that the Assembly declare that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 99, all three positions. I ask the National Assembly to declare this by voting. For 39, against 124, one abstention, did not vote 9, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted Mr. Vukic's remarks that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP Stevan Kesejic reportedly, followed by MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the violence against the parliamentary minority in this assembly, especially according to the Serbian Radical Party, I hope to be able to say what I had to say about the agenda point, which concerns so-called. reform of the judicial system, according to Minister Batic. This is not about reforming the judicial system, it's about people, people who need to perform a very important function, a function that is often the turning point of human destiny. That is why this issue is very important, and MPs should be made known about these proposals. However, on the basis of what we heard from Justice Minister Vladan Batic about the fact that the executive and judicial authorities have nothing in common, I would say that there is even a set and I will talk about it today. Also, the Justice Committee did not convince us that they were working under the law. Some members of the Committee did not even exercise their conscience. This was also seen by a certain member of the Committee on Justice giving his opinion, his position, which is certainly democratic. All that goes on here in parliament is more like a political violence and I fear that parliamentaryism in Serbia will start to go out if this is how the president of the National Assembly behaves and certain MPs from the DOS majority. Of course, Minister Vladan Batic here, taking care of his personal accommodations first of all, gives priority to the appointment of prison director Olivera Jelkic, and then the appointment of Judge Leposava Karamarkovic, solved the basic problems that are very important to him. This is now a minor issue, the appointment of judges and people to perform various judicial functions. It's less important because anything lower than the judicial authorities solve, or decide, where I think there are honest and honest people, can simply be done by the Supreme Court of Dapreins, to do so as the minister of justice wishes, that is, how it goes on the hands of DOS-manias. As evidence and an example, so I am talking about the Supreme Court, it is also that they have changed, that is to say, the judicial verdict for the criminals who bombed this country, killed several thousand citizens of the Republic of Serbia, among whom there were a lot of civilians and children, freed them by returning them to the first-degree body to solve again, and then appointed the appropriate judges to resolve their benefits, as is the case with NATO allies. You're very handsome, but you don't have to say it like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12076	Please, courting after the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12077	I would ask you, Mr. President, to keep an eye on the opposition MPs saying they have the same opportunities and to be equal with the MPs of the DOS. You don't even care about the throws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12078	I just warned a letter not to court you and leave it for later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12079	Then I thank you for the gentlemanhood you used this time. So, given this, I have some examples to make. As I was saying, the Supreme Court changes the decision of the lower organs, but at the same time, it's full of prisons for ordinary mortals, poor people. One of these examples is a man who, defending his homeland, offered his life to defend his country, defending his family and his non-monetary, sentenced to a first degree and second degree court for three months in prison, and the Supreme Court confirms his sentence. The republican public prosecutor says that by reviewing a judicial verdict, he will not be given an answer, which means that the man who got it, by the way, will have to be clear, a gun on a gift from the unit commander he was in, the police found it, and that's why he was sentenced to three months in prison. So, even so, there are many other cases, insignificant, where citizens are simply not taken care of, but at the same time, they take care of those listeners who serve today's DOS mania. The line between the executive and the judicial authority is also obvious on the following case. Namely, Minister Dragan Veselinov has kidnapped...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12080	Dragan Vesenov is a minister and is not a candidate for judicial functions. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12081	No, but he's in contact with the judicial authorities. It is in line with the Constitutional Court, as it kidnaps the Republic's ownership of the Serbian Hunting Union of Land in an area of 867 hectares. This is where the upper forest novelty is formed, which should be a reservation and which should be used to provide income for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or the Republic of Serbia, from issuing hunting grounds to hunters from abroad. However, Dragan Vesenov, subtracting that area from the Republic of Serbia,...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12082	By risking to object to my asphyxiation of parliamentaryism, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12083	Thank you. So he gives it to an Italian firm who simply exploits our natural resources and thus provides everything that could possibly have been entered into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, the question arises whether Dragan Veselinov shares with some other ministers the money received from the buyer, or from whoever rented that area. Since I've given an explanation regarding the alienation of the hunting grounds, the Hunting Master of Odzak is filing a lawsuit against the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is deafening this lawsuit. Also, there is an obvious string between the court and the executive government, most prominent in the case of Deputy Prime Minister Joseph Kasa. He proposes for the President of Tamash Korhec District Court, who is known for many things. Among other things, the most famous is that he's a sicko. As a result, he takes Hungarian citizenship, for a time he does not appear in public in his profession because he teaches as a professor in Hungary at the University of Segedin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12084	Please finish. Speak, here, eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12085	Given that time is near, I am unable to mention that the same name - Tamash Korhec is located in the Ministry of the province, referring to the son of the mentioned Tamash Korhec, who is minister in the government of the province. The line between the executive and the judicial authority is obvious. That is why I ask that the choice of Judge Tamash Korhec be specifically singled out and that we declare it individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12086	He has the word National MP Milan Stankovic. After him, MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12087	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to the fire speeches of some DOS MPs, however, failed to convince me that they had genuine intentions to create an independent judiciary, of course independent of the executive authority. If the intentions were true, they would argue first, that the Constitutional Court, secondly, would change the law if it were not right, of course, the Law on the Selection of Judges and Prosecutors and eventually come personal changes, if one of the existing judicial personnel did not fit into some new principles that would define the Law on the choice of judges and prosecutors in the judiciary. For months now, this congregation has been told how the Constitutional Court should be established. On the contrary, the DOS regime deliberately avoids the formation of the Constitutional Court, as the court would have declared many government regulations, including the Assembly, out of force, that is to say, anti-constitutional. Yesterday in the assembly, you heard that this regime was forced to elect judges and prosecutors by bad laws, according to those brought by the Socialists in the previous period. Who forbids you to change the law? That's the easiest. You have the congregation's majority, you can change the law and make it the way it suits you. It has also been said that this assembly has received a mandate from citizens to make radical changes in the judiciary. I guess for you, the root changes are your personal change. Of course, from the position of the executive authority, these changes are rooted, because the danger of being prosecuted by someone for crime, which was spoken publicly, which they spoke of in the papers even by high-ranking state officials, or by a party, however you will. On the other hand, conditions are being created for persecution and repression against political opponents. If that's true, there's obvious evidence. Professor Branislav Ivkovic and Dr Canovic, from opposition parties, are being removed from immunity, and those in the government who are accused of crime -- no, but are still making progress. That DOS needs obedient prosecutors and judges, evidence of some of them, some of the people in the judiciary, in connection with the arrest and kidnapping of former President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Socialist Party President Slobodan Milosevic. Evidence is also evidenced at the beginning of yesterday's session, and evidence is also a number of objections concerning individual candidates, presented in the Assembly. It was reported that many of them had studied for ten and more years, that their average was barely above six, that they had never worked as judges and that even some of those who did not work as judges were also elected for the presidents of the courts. Many of them are members of various DOS parties, even performing some state functions that are incompatible with the judicial function. If these are positive criteria for selecting judges and prosecutors, please enter it into the law, so let the citizens see more clearly what awaits them. Not only did you deceive them about the economy and the standard, you deceived them about independent justice, their personal security and their freedom. Yesterday you could hear an example from the scribe, as the judges are elected now. The President of the Municipal Court in Knjaževec is changing because his term of office, although he worked well in the previous period, has positive results and the work of the entire court has been well assessed. You choose a man who, first of all, has never worked in the judiciary, secondly, is elected simultaneously by the judge and the president of the court, is a member of the Democratic Party, was the president of the Democratic Party, the first president of the Democratic Party in Književec, and the College of the Municipal Court in Književec has not been consulted. He even sent an open letter to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The average rating of that man in the studies is 6.71. The College is protesting with a letter addressed to this congregation. As citizens can see, the promise of justice left only fog.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12088	The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević. After that, MP Milan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12089	Today is the third day that we're considering questions, and that I didn't realize, in general, why we're doing this. I expected in the congregation that the government, the government, prepared everything properly and properly. I wouldn't agree, probably, with most of you if we didn't have lawyers, that everything in courts is black, because you represent the same thesis -- that black is everything in school, in health, and there's nothing good. I can accept that there are also weak judges and good judges, and I can accept that there are people who are subject to the influence of the government, who are subject to both this and that, and there will be a third, and the fourth and the next. I can accept that there are errors in the work of courts and all bodies, but, I'm sorry, you want to build the system as of October in the following way -- nothing's wrong in either way, but what the European Union is going to bring us and what we're going to sign is a legal system. I personally believe in the Faculty of Law in Belgrade and that he is a high-quality student. I believe that everyone who's here, and there's a lot of lawyers, maybe even a judge (I don't know if there are any, but a lawyer anyway), who's been through those studies, finished school, if you, dear comrades, deny yourself, that you're not worth anything, then that's another situation. I can't help you at all, I believe that we have good lawyers, and good judges, and good doctors, and I'm asking you to keep talking about these structures. Secondly, I can accept that there is an impact on the economic crisis, and this economic crisis has caused the world's biggest country and the biggest terrorist, America, because if it hadn't been for that, there would have been no state terrorism, and then the economic situation in Serbia would have been better, and it would have been better in the legal system. You promised high wages. I think one of the factors for high-quality judges is high wages and I think there's a lot to be done on that. Next, you say it's not a good law. Please, until the law changes, he should be respected. You didn't show us here that you were a law-abiding, so let him be the worst, which means, the biggest body, the Assembly, is unable to work by law. And as we explain it - I should, the ambassador, have a little explanation somewhere about each of the candidates, where I could see for their quality. Listening to the fact that in ten months or nine, you are now ten, you are unable to form the Constitutional Court, you are unable to form the Supreme Court, it says that you are unable to share your functions, because you cannot settle who you will and who has the upper hand in the judiciary. If you say the judiciary is independent, what's the big deal - is anyone chasing someone's godfather? Do not deal with it, but resolve what is of quality, and what will best be done by the judicial system. So let's get back to the law, respecting the law. On the other hand, I have a grudge. Is it possible for someone to send proposals to the MPs and withdraw them? That's very unserious for me, because whoever sent the proposals didn't make any quality suggestions. Thus, they treated this congregation body and the congregation unrelentingly. That is why I ask that those who make proposals make their proposals quality, not to think about what the proposal is on the agenda here in the Serbian Parliament. About the proposal -- we heard a colleague from New Market, he said everything and you shouldn't defend yourself. So you couldn't agree on the municipalities. It's not about quality. You need to say correctly - we want our judges to be as weak as possible, so that we can affect them as much as possible. It seems, every power, when it is unable to rule by its knowledge and skill, it chooses weak associates around it, or chooses weak judges, or weak policemen, weak doctors, gathering unskilled ones, because it fears itself, that it may not be squeezed out. What are you afraid of? The government, in my opinion, needs to be the best fit, both in power, and in education, and everywhere. Unfortunately, you've proven to these movers what you need to prove. Next, I ask a question (here, there are lawyers and lawyers here to answer me) - how is it possible to run a competition for one of the judges, anyone without being resolved? Please, whether this assembly is going to violate the Constitution, the laws, and whether we MPs, because of party obligations, have the right, morally, to say to the citizens of Serbia - we are breaking everything, it is not important, it is politically defined. You gentlemen criticized that system. Let's just say that's how it was. Since October 5th, you have full authority. If you say it was like that, then you work a hundred times up, why are you forcing the Parliament to work illegally? Return the Assembly, because you have lawyers in your ranks, within the legal frameworks, so when you change the laws, then you have to respect them, no matter who brought them. Now you might expect me to criticise that in Mitrovica, he was chosen one way or another. I'll tell you what -- first of all, each of us needs to be honest enough for himself. For example, on a proposal for a municipal judge in Sremska Mitrovica, for the president of the Chamber of Commerce, Dušanka Petakovic, I have no objections, as so far there has been nothing in the city that would indicate her incorrect trial. I didn't investigate, I'm not one to investigate who's in the house with whom, but I'm watching it all the way. However, I have a remark that for no reason a man who works just as well has been replaced. I'm sorry, gentlemen. I know what I'm saying. Don't argue. So it's about breaking the law. If we have a minister of justice, if we have a V.D. The prosecutor violates the law, announcing a competition, unauthorized, in my opinion, then I ask this assembly to resolve first, to make a decision, to discuss competitions for those places. You have the opportunity to resolve it, because you have the majority, regardless of the evidence. On the other hand, you're wrong, Mr. President, as an MP, I want to have all the information on the judges, the short biography. Rest assured, if they're credible, I have nothing against candidates who are high-quality and I don't ask which foreigners they're in. In my town, I didn't ask which foreigners, believe me, and I won't ask if what needs to be done legally, if it works properly and doesn't work by order. But I can say this -- one of the judges in the area of Srema was elected head of the District Court, that is, the second-degree court; he was the worst student, the worst student and the worst judge, but that's probably why he's probably in some party. I haven't done any research, but I'm gonna do some research on it. Therefore, your stories of quality, with 14 years of study, your stories of quality, and that are in front of retirement... I ask the question to the lawyers in this assembly: well, comrades, you've been involved in the legal system before, because you've made certain decisions together with the judges. I suggest we withdraw all illegal competitions and enquire for the judges, the ones after the shift.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12090	Right on line, MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12091	I have to correct something that's been said for me here, and I really didn't say that. Besides, you're witnesses. I didn't say we couldn't make a deal. I just said that we were forced to accept Mr. Zlatan Kurtovic, some of the objections of the other members of the local DOS. Now that his withdrawal has proved to be not a good solution, it's actually a confirmation of our right attitude, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12092	National MP Milorad Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12093	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 96(2). First, the chairman gave the word without the right to do so, noting a previous fellow MP and quoting a part of a statement by lawmakers from Novi Pazar, and a fellow living in Prijepolje reported. Secondly, he didn't mention it in a negative context. No condition in this Rules of Procedure has been met to give the chairman the right to a replica of his colleagues. Prior to that, the president of the assembly took away and expelled the president of the SRS and the president of the parliamentary group because he prevented him from giving him the right to replication, and the party and the name of the president of the parliamentary group were also mentioned. What are you doing? What's with the arches? What do you want from this congregation to do, a lardy? When DOS deputies raise their hands, you immediately give them the right to replication. You're giving them the right to come out for this pay phone. The members of the SRS are being driven from this pay phone and you are getting out of this room. Is that your goal? The members of 98 and 99 were then injured. Article 98 in the second position. Non-stop - Members of the DOS group are receiving. You're listening to it. Dude, I'm not talking to you. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Leave the communist old timer. Yeah, you throw more. You're used up in that Joseph Broz regime. Leave the pitching alone. He throws himself around all the time. You don't mention MPs from DOS for one moment. If you can't or won't, I'm not going in there. You use all the time to stop the MPs, especially the SRS, like Stevan Kesejić was just behind the pay phone, to interrupt him in the speech, to interrupt him in the presentation. We are equal or, as you say, we are the same in this congregation and we have the same rights. If you can't warn Marijan Risticevic, who throws away, who is always with some incursions, at a higher percentage, they're tasteless, but it's not the subject of the debate now, then say it openly from that place -- we don't warn, we can't warn the MPs of DOS, from this van party, because I don't know what his party is called.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12094	Mr. Mircic, I believe that it is not a injured member of Section 96 because the previous speaker has spoken offensively, not by naming the name and last name, but by the function of the gentleman present here and being misread. As for Article 98, I may and may warn all MPs, but it is incorrect that DOS MPs are getting it, rather than the MPs of the SRS do it the most. Therefore, you cannot ask other messengers to be warned, even when you have not been warned of being thrown away. Are you satisfied with my answer? Yeah. ) (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Marian, you have no right to a replica. I didn't hear anything offensive. The People's MP, Mr. Milan Jankovic, came forward. Let MP Dragan Todorovic be prepared, as the next one is registered for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, today we elect judges and prosecutors, with the expectation of the DOS to change the situation in Serbia's judiciary, which is extremely bad. This assessment is confirmed by the results of a public opinion survey published in the list "Today", which say 51% of citizens are unhappy with Serbia's legal system. Why is that? I'm sure it's because of the people who are elected to the judiciary and who represent the judiciary. That's why it's important who we choose today. If today's candidates are as good as the ones we've chosen in the spring of this year or do as they do they're already chosen, then it won't be good. Among the proposed candidates, which we are going to decide on today, there are many of them with a modest or weak average rating of studies or have studied for a very long time, which objectively raises their professional quality. It seems that the main criterion was how many pairs of shoes were torn up - for the judge one pair, and for the president more pairs of shoes. During the spring, the Serbian judiciary celebrated numerous political court proceedings, mainly against SPS members, where it was least important to carry out the procedure correctly. It was important for the Socialists to be accused, imprisoned and held in prison, and only after the evidence was collected. What Serbia's citizens can hope for if they see people arrested without a proper decision or kidnapped and no one reacts. So it happened with SPS President Slobodan Milosevic, that without the judge's decision, he was kidnapped from prison and taken to The Hague. So an illegal act was implemented, and no one in Serbia's judiciary has said a single word. They're all full of mouths - the constitution, the law, the law and justice. It can only be seen to apply to someone or only to some. Dear fellow MPs, I am convinced that with the shift of the existing and the choice of new people there will be no improvement. The situation in Serbia's legal system will not be improved because people who are party-defined are proposed. It was heard in Serbia's field, and I hear that on the Justice and Administration Committee, it is said that each candidate must have the consent of DOS politburo. So the party criterion, DOS criteria are more important than any other criterion. It is amazing that no one mentions the main cause of the increase in crime in Serbia. If we exclude these political trials, which were expected, what about the increase in the increasing number of criminal cases. The answer is clear - an increasing decline in the living standards of the population is extremely favourable to the development of crime. (President: Mr. Jankovic, please return to the topic. So, a unique search of the proposals for decisions on the termination, resolution and selection of judicial officials. I'm talking about the subject right now. Instead of the current government dealing with the causes, it distracts citizens with certain human resources. I am convinced that today's choice of people in the judiciary and the prosecution, by the decision of the assembly majority of DOS, will not improve our legal system. I believe that, besides the Socialists, the citizens of Serbia are not convinced of that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12096	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Next reported for discussion is MP Golub Rajic. I give my word to MP Golub Rajic, as Mr Dragan Todorovic is absent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12097	Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, motions for decisions on termination, resolution and selection of judicial functions, submitted by the Committee on Justice and V.D. The republic's public prosecutor has caused great public interest, and so has our MPs in the Assembly, which proves the debate being conducted. The fact is that a bad atmosphere was created and this is due to the political review of the work of the courts, their presidents and judges, which is nevertheless a kind of pressure on the judiciary and does not contribute to the independence of judges and the autonomy of the judiciary. I will remind citizens that respect for the Constitution and the law, rule of law, building democratic institutions, economic development, prosperity and a better life is promised. It has not been there for a year, the situation has been catastrophic and all the institutions of the rule of law and society have been suspended. The judiciary has suffered unprecedented media and political pressures and judges are not expected to judge by law, but at the request of party leaders. It is not clear to me that certain proposals for a revision procedure that is envisaged, and that prompted me because we heard here in the discussions, and then the Committee on Justice passed, and that during the night the proposals are changing, and that the new candidates are proposing. What does that mean, are these changes in the human structure that will bring something better? I'm not sure, at least until now you've been making suggestions, it's getting worse. The promised reform of the judicial system has turned into a mass shift of the largest number of judges and prosecutors, political loyalty is a basic criterion in the judiciary and a large number of judges join the parties, especially in Baticeva, and I ask what that means? It is not good for obedients to be brought to the most significant judicial functions, contrary to the prescribed law. The presidents of the courts are changing and bringing in unprofessional people with no experience in the judiciary, the prosecution and the courts. The proposal shows that a large number of lawyers are proposed for court presidents or prosecutors. Minister Batic said they were the ones the previous regime expelled. That's a little weird if you know lawyers make good money. If it isn't incompetent lawyers, what's their motive for returning to the judiciary. In the light of all the proposals, it is said that opinions on professional, working and other conditions for the performance of functions have been provided for all those meeting the requirements. For the candidates who are judges, data on the quality and quantity of their work have been provided, as well as opinions from the courts' colleges and their reputation for performing a judicial function that enjoys the environments where they live and work. I wish it was all that and that they were really proposed by the most professional and capable people. However, a large number of debaters said that this was not exactly the case and that local DOSs were difficult to come up with a common acceptable solution, so this has been delayed in this way. According to information I have for the Contin District Court area, the college has not given its opinion, although I have nothing against the proposed candidates and I expect that as citizens of that part of Serbia, they will, since they are ladies, securely, professionally and correctly perform these functions. It is strange, however, that in the material we have obtained for this court, there is neither a list of registered candidates nor a feature of the proposed candidates, and I ask the president of the Committee why this is the case, and he has not been in the O.R. for the third day. There is no legality unless the procedure is followed, and that is what the majority of the debaters here said, that the procedure is not respected, and even a lot has been said uglyly about certain candidates. If they are elected, what authority will they have in their midst and also among their fellow judges? If we're all in favour of legality and the rule of law, I think it would be best if this were to be withdrawn from the procedure, to re-check everything, and to consider in the regular session of the Assembly, or to adopt the Law on Courts, so the elections will be held later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12098	The word has a People's MP Dragan Todorovic, and the next reported for the discussion is MP Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12099	With apologies, but you have to understand, we were still witnessing very unpleasant events, once again, in this tall home of ours, and I'd like to say that those who swear to legalism seem to be acting like last year's snow. It's as legal as last year's snow. Namely, here it is as if one fact is overlooked, that we also today have a applicable law on courts and a detailed procedure for the selection, i.e. for the resolution and selection of holders of judicial functions. However, before I open an elaborate on what has been going on in the last few months for the election of judicial officials, I would like to say that there has obviously been a compromise in our country by the executive authority over the legislative one, which is unsuspectingly visible here in our Parliament. So, as MPs, you will agree, we are not in a position to see any work version of the law, let's say about public information, about culture, about broadcasting, or the working version of the law on courts and judges, for which the Republic Ministry or anyone else has written and delivered for public discussion some contacts, some experts in Serbia, and not one MP, as far as I know, has. And that's one example that executive power is the most important in this country. However, if you recall, before the September elections last year, one of the arguments used and explained, that those who promised hills and valleys should not be trusted, it was that chaos would happen in our country. Chaos conditioned that 18 different parties have 18 different views and 1,000 issues of social importance. So today there are several versions of the law on courts - the DSS, the Ministry of Justice of some professional organisations, G17 plus, minus 18, but no one, nor do those who swear to legalism apply the provisions of the applicable Law on Courts. The positioning of the DOS in the judiciary has dissipated such a measure, more specifically such an unprecedented disproportion in relation to what is prescribed by the Courts Act, that it is simply worrying. I must remind you that in the case of judicial holders, more precisely administrative functions in the judiciary, the President of the Courts, I must point out that it is necessary for the term of office of those who are holders of administrative functions in the judiciary, and, if not, that, by the provisions of the Law on Courts, is to be explained at the General Session of the Supreme Court, to explain the reasons for the removal of the functions of the holders of judicial functions in municipal or county courts. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case. I just have to say that in no case, as far as I could inform myself, in addition to the fact that there is no reasoned explanation of the proposal, which is why someone is abolished by the place of the holder of the judicial office, more specifically the administration in the judiciary, there is no consultation, which is also, under the provisions of the Law on Courts, mandatory and there is no consultation of the colleges. In order to illustrate this to you on the case, I must tell you that, despite the fact that two seats in the District Court have been vacant, four candidates have been reported, and that one candidate, therefore the fifth candidate in that working version of the material that we received on the Justice Committee, has been figured out as the most prominent judge of the district court and for the election of the President of the District Court, was out of that list. In a magical way, some plots within the DOS, some cloudy shops under the grain, that very candidate, more precisely, celebrated up to 24 hours before the practical beginning of this extraordinary session as a DOS candidate for the district court president and a district court judge. Why this proposal was withdrawn, I really don't know, as I don't know why the county court's college was not in a position to state whether it met the criteria that were necessary. Of course, we're talking about the Pirot District Court and the fact that the president of that court ended his term, as far as I know, this year in June, which is justified. However, when it comes to the President of the Municipal Court, it has also figured out a few of the presidents of that court in Piroth, and also those several proposals were two or three months, so this one, so that the DSS loves this one, and the DS doesn't like that one and so on. Just so much for the independence of the candidates. Finally, again, in fact 24 hours before the meeting of the Justice Committee, which did not discuss in any form potential candidates for the holders of judicial functions in the pyrotical court, municipal and county, 24 hours before the session was scheduled, after two and a half months of figureing out individual candidates, which I will not appoint this opportunity, the proposal was withdrawn. Based on what, I really don't know. However, let those who are in power explain to the people in Piroth that this has been said over the past few months about the abolition of the Pirot District Court, why the suspension of the Municipal Court in Dimitrovgrad and in Babusnica is being discussed. That's how it's led by human policy, because that's exactly what they're doing. I'm proud that my socialists, while we were in power, wouldn't let that sort of thing happen, to be more specific, such a mess happens. The situation is clear, and the propo election theft in 1996. If someone committed an election theft, they're absolutely both an MP and a socialist, and I'm willing to punish him like that. But, gentlemen, you have not listed any, in letters, any reason for anyone to be prosecuted on that basis, for criminal charges. Give me the evidence and give me a court case to confirm that in 1996 or at any time of election theft. Only then can we speak with argument. On the other hand, I have to point out that for the seat of the president of the municipal court, there are some towering stories about Pirot, five or six candidates, maybe 15, you know that better. The suggestion was that a gentleman, who I have no doubt is capable of doing so, be proposed to the president of the municipal court. However, the current president of the municipal court is in office until May 2002. What are the arguments? Was there a general session of the Supreme Court held, was there a session of the municipal and district court, on the basis of which the decision on its resolution was made? It's not. Of course not, because you like legalism, as I have already mentioned, is like last year's snow. However, a trench battle is now being fought right in Pirot about why the proposal, which has figured out two and a half months, has been withdrawn. The absolute confusion of the government over whether municipal courts in Dimitrovgrad and Babusnica will be abolished, whether or not the district court will survive, and when you talk about impunity, it is indeed a frantic fact that, in addition to two seats for judges of the district court, we do not choose judges of the district court, but we choose the president of the district court. When we talk about being up-to-date, I have to mention that the Pirot District Court is among the top five in Serbia. Gentlemen, you see, when despite the lack of judges you have such results, it's very difficult to explain why things happen the way they happen. Also, I have to say that there have been more emergency departments to complete the vacancy of judges at the Pirot District Court. Unfortunately, there has been a working version of the law on courts, as well as of judges, who, if he stays, will deny the possibility for the citizens of the Pirot County to have their disputes, which they do not go voluntarily, to have to resolve before the District Court in Nis. (President: Time. ) However, I will be pleased to explain to you how very, very negative it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12100	The word has a People's MP, Miomir Ilic, and the next reported for discussion is the MP, Mr. Zivorad Rakovic. You want to tell me the basis for the replica? (Tomislav Panajotovic, from the post: Because of Pirot, I was there too. We can't give the city a straight line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12101	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the basis for selecting judges, public prosecutor's office holders and the president of district and municipal courts, were, as the promoter or as DOS authorities say, the following: that it is an independent judiciary, a professional people and a politicism. It would be a basis that would rebirth our justice and bring justice to its place, as if so far there were no expertise, no justice and no a politicism. I have to say, on a number of examples that have been here in public debate and discussion, that in the proposals that have been made and formed on the basis of these criteria, a lot of things of these criteria are not true. They're not true for those reasons that even the objections here on certain proposals, which have arisen in a way they shouldn't have, in the way you stood up for it, nor have they gone in that order. An ad was published for the election of judges, and based on the choice of judges and proposals for the election of the president of the courts, as well as public prosecutors. However, it is obvious that the Committee on Justice and the Administrative Committee, in whose jurisdiction it is, has not done its part of the job. The criterion set out in the reasoning, which arises from the law, and I will read as it says in all these arguments for all these functions, is not respected. He says this, in an explanation: "For all the registered candidates, who meet the legal requirements for selecting judges of a particular court, opinions on professional, working and other conditions for the execution of a judicial function have been drawn up. For the candidates who are judges, data on the quality and quantity of their work have been provided. Opinions have also been obtained from the colleges of courts for which candidates are elected. Also, opinions on their reputation for performing a judicial function, which enjoy the environment in which they live and work, were also added to the candidates." I think this is all right and it's in place and I stand for it. Examples brought here by MPs and oppositions and positions say it is not respected. The Justice Committee, whose president is not present here from the moment he presented the proposal and gave a brief explanation, and it is necessary to be present, to ask questions and get interpretations, whether or not it is true. He hasn't been here in three days. So, don't when you're running this assembly, are you or Mr. President, to say that the MPs are now guilty of asking questions to be given an explanation whether a judge has been given, meaning, what criteria, why the judge is being removed, why the President of the Court, who has not expired his term of office, should not be relieved of his duties. This is under the Courts Act, Article 29, paragraph 7, where it stands out loud and clear that an explanation should be given as to why the judge or the President of that court, at the end of the term of office, should be relieved of his duties for the reasons mentioned here, which is due to negligence, negligence and non-compliance with certain criteria. In these proposals, we do not have any explanation in those judges, i.e. the President of the Courts, before the end of the term of office, and I would ask you to allow the chairman of the Justice Committee to be present here and to get an answer for some specific situations, in order to clarify the situation, such as the candidate for the President of the Frogs, whose territory I act as an MP for the Socialist Party. I think the proposals made and the opinions given by MP Pavlovic are in place and talk about one quality work of the entire parliamentary group, because it is a neutral attitude that should be pre-elected by the most important holders of judicial functions. What are the holders of judicial functions? We can't win whether he's legitimate or illegal, combined with a legitimate and illegal official of the duties of a republican public prosecutor. We need to know here, we're not here for the circus. We are here a legislative authority, or assembly, which should say whether it is true or not, but without the right state of affairs, who is the perpetrator of the society of the republican public prosecutor, we can't fool the people and these citizens. First we should elect a republican public prosecutor, and then these proposals and these judges who have applied for expertise, knowledge, desire, then present to the largest public prosecutor, that he should give his opinion and propose a proposal to this Parliament. Also, as far as business courts are concerned, I'm putting in here a certain remark, a concept, and it's not about me not affecting the choice of candidates, because by profession I'm not a lawyer but an engineer, but given what I have information and a memo delivered by the presidents of economic courts, I think it's not fair, although it's referred to all the places that are known in the judiciary. I believe that the resolutions of individual presidents of economic courts are not in place and are not right. It's okay with those cases where the term of office ended, it's okay when people applied for retirement or on their own request to change jobs, but for those presidents who did well, who have good and quality solutions, where the results of the work are evident, why put it in another basket. And above all, my fundamental objection concerns why the President of the Great Court of Commerce, the Republic, is not first elected as the highest judicial authority in the context of economic litigation, and only then do we elect the presidents of economic courts in places where the headquarters of economic courts is. For what reason? For these reasons, that man who is in that place is the most responsible and he should be consulted, that he should give his opinion as well. For this reason, this discussion came from the DSS MPs, which was made to elect Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic for the President of the Senior Court of Commerce, I see no reason why we should withdraw and not discuss this proposal. As a businessman, I think that we should get the first president of the Senior Court and put a point here and say that the majority of you who have here are Democrats, too, looking for one independence and one order and order. For that reason and the discussions that were here were very good. My insistence is to appoint a republican public prosecutor before, to appoint the president of the High Court of Commerce, and then to discuss the judges of the lower ranks, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors. One more thing to clear up, and it's about us being MPs, I've at least got one, and I see my colleague hasn't got, uh, released material, and that's the Law of Courts and a whole set of laws in this area. We now choose judges, we choose the presidents of the courts, and in this law, which is likely to go, there are radical changes, there are proposals, there are changes in the seat of the courts. What about those judges we're choosing now, and then they won't be? Is there going to be a whole choice again? Is there going to be a competition? In my opinion, we need to bring these laws before, and then go to a choice. I move to a stage where my interest is important, and it refers to the District Court in Požarevec, the territory of the District Court in Požarevec, or municipal courts that have been made in proposals. I don't think the opinions, suggestions, suggestions and criticisms that were given here would even be criticism from the MPs of the radicals, including mine, regarding the President of the Municipal Court, the candidate in the Frogrim, that an opinion was obtained by the competent authority, the local self-government, as it stands in law, that such a man and then that man and that candidate would not be exposed to this criticism and any such indignity. I don't think that's right, and that's just saying that the chairman of the Justice Committee didn't do his job well and he didn't get all the opinions on it. He may not have been able to obtain an opinion in the Frogs for the reason that they are in the hands of the Socialists. I don't know what it's like in the Fireman municipality. There's the president of the Fireman municipality, so he can say it. Not getting into it, but why is the current President of the Municipal Court in Požarevc, Mr. Slobodan Kedinovic, who was placed only a year ago in that place, and it is a quality and young man, politically unengaged, who has resolved several court disputes for this short period and who has ranks up to 20 from 120 municipal courts in Serbia. I do not see that such a young man should now be resolved before the term of office, not entering the fact that the candidate Mrs. Peric, who has been given here as a candidate for the President of the Court, is or is not a quality candidate, but the reasons why a young man, a man who is to progress, is already not just our problem, but also your problem. For this reason, I believe it is appropriate that, after all the discussions that were here, certain institutions, and above all, the Justice Committee withdraws a proposal for the election of the President of the District Court, the choice of judges, to make a statement on the choice of the Republic's public prosecutor and the President of the High Court of Commerce.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12102	The word is made by MP Zivorad Rakovic, and then by MP Dragan Tomic. Rakovic's not here. The word has a folk MP Dragan Tomic, followed by MP Bora Stanimirovic
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12103	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, we have been talking about the subject of Serbia's judiciary for several days now, and since the New Year's Eve, there has been a major hack over the Serbian judiciary. There are no politicians in power in Serbia who haven't given assessments of Serbia's judiciary and they've mostly had a negative connotation, even these days for a assembly speaker to justify changes in the Serbian judiciary we've had the opportunity to hear from people who know nothing about the judiciary, to use the term of the judiciary in a very negative connotation. What's the background, what's the reason, and what's the goal? The background is probably, firstly, ignorant of the profession and the weight of the work done by people working in the Serbian judiciary. And when you talk about justice, you need to know that there are different levels of work, different forms and tasks in these affairs, from outsiders to executives, through litigation and guilt. We've been listening to stories about a few examples here, and they're like parrots when they stop, so they start telling the same story, repeated through the media for months and months, to prove that the judiciary isn't doing much good. In order to achieve the goal, it means a total change in the management of justice personnel, and then a series of threats to those who dare to act by law. Let's go from the criticism of the law, that the law that was passed in the previous period was really wrong, but that's what we had to propose candidates under that law. I get the impression when you look at Article 43. The law on courts, that those who read it didn't read it very well, because we definitely wouldn't have come into a situation if we had a series of withdrawals for judges these days. We also had during the summer period several times withdrawing from the Committee on Justice a series of proposals, for a simple reason because there is a discrepancy in the proposal. Who are these people who suggest? How can people give an opinion about those who have never worked in the judiciary and colleges in courts not be able to plead at all because they do not know the quality of these people. Especially not about people who come from the law profession, because that's what the bar says. We have had a series of proposals withdrawn from the Justice Committee during this summer period, for the simple reason that there is a discrepancy in the proposal. Who are these people who suggest? Who are the people who need to give an opinion? Those who have never worked in justice, colleges and courts could not even plead, because they do not know the quality of these people, especially about people who come from the law profession, because they need to give an opinion to the bar. As for the stories of the judiciary and how it was socialist and directly controlled and ordered by the Socialist Party, it is an absolutely incorrect and arbitrary assessment. You don't have any arguments about that. Of course, with the desire to make a counter argument and to choose various people to share all DOS parties, such an assessment is sought. Of course, it wouldn't be a problem, because it's just people from the profession again, and then we're in a situation of a variety of disputes. The Socialists didn't begin to dispute the candidates' proposals first after this speaker. That's what you DOS gentlemen did. First you took a huge number of people off the list, so at the beginning of the session you challenged the entire public prosecutor's office and behind it, as if nothing had happened, stayed on the proposal, we're in front of the same people who are doing an extremely difficult and complex job. For this reason, I ask that when we talk about these people or dispute it be with some concrete argument, not with the story: the Serbian judiciary is not good at all. There's an outsider department, there's a litigation department, there's a criminal, there's an executive department. People do different things. There are prosecutors, municipal and county. Don’t give extra complex and hard work on that world. It's not a false fact, it's absolutely true, in all municipalities DOS gave an opinion on the quality of people. Of course, everyone knows it, people know it in the judiciary, the whole Serbian public knows it. I don't know why you're ashamed of that fact, if that's what you thought. If you've given an opinion, then you're defending it. You defend the quality of your proposal, and not here unsettlingly dispute that the maltenes don't even know who suggested these people. Stand by these proposals, tell the public, defend your intentions. You don't do that. You haven't spoken a single sentence about the state of justice, the state of the art. That condition is extremely difficult. The personal incomes in the judiciary are small, not only judges and prosecutors, the president of the courts, but all the employees of the judiciary. The material position, business and judicial work are difficult. And this was an opportunity to talk about this subject -- how to even fix the material position, how to enable them to have an absolute degree of independence in the performance of their functions. This specifically refers to economic courts, since the situation in economic courts may be the most difficult. Legal regulations in the area are incomplete. It is largely, and often, about the adoption of regulations to monitor the course of action and events in the area. We have a category of bankruptcy, we have bankruptcys that aren't regulated. A large part of the Serbian economy is there. That's not what we're talking about. We're doing a recession. We only change people because they're not politically similar in the local environments, where they live, and we're not talking about their quality, about their work. We didn't say why someone couldn't be president of the court anymore. There is a number of evidence of the results of the work and the statement of the college on the previous period. This should be taken into account when replacing some of the presidents of the courts. I'm not saying you don't have the right to exchange your views and opinions on people who have expired, but there's no explanation when it comes to people who are at the beginning or half of the term. They're particularly frantic facts when people are retired, and they're named Presidents of the Court. I have to make an example that, for itself, can tell about the quality of the consultations that were carried out in the previous period when it comes to running, especially for prosecutors. In this case, it's a proposal for a district attorney. He should be one of the highest civil servants in any area. In particular, it's about a candidate for the district attorney in Chačka. Here is evidence of long-term tax avoidance, for the last six years, in every possible and impossible way. The most spectacular evidence is that the proposed candidate, according to his mother-in-law, is receiving support from her. The only reason for receiving support - means a supported person - is because he wrote a life support contract. He thus qualified himself as a man unable to support himself and his own family. There is a statement that the mother-in-law agrees to support her son-in-law as a maintenance recipient and to allow him to sell a three-bedroom apartment. The main reason for this is to avoid paying taxes, to forge motor vehicle registration documents, so that the vehicle can be translated into a third party fictitiously. Such a person is given the most responsible function - to make justice in a municipality or even on the territory of seven-eight municipalities. When we get to this model and way, it's obvious he's a member of some group, some lobby, who knows what kind. There's even a statement in the D.A.'s office. The M.O.P., not earlier, but this new M.O.P., has given his opinion on all this. Even the man was, at one point, withdrawn from the DA's candidacy. Finally, yesterday we heard he paid his taxes after five or six years. I guess he needs to regulate a pension insurance he hasn't regulated in a number of years. We're getting into a situation where we realize that you're constantly defending this proposal. It's an honor. To all the Chacans and those who live in the area, God help them if this gentleman gives them justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12104	There is a word from MP Bora Stanimirovic. After him is the word of the Messenger of the people, Dusan Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12105	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to talk about a proposal with a critical view, starting with what we heard yesterday and today about the choice of judges and president of individual courts. My remarks refer to a professional service which has made such a proposal in the procedure, as very confusing, very messy, without any objections that have been made later, as we can see from the minutes and decisions. It was, even, five session committees. The proposals have been changed all the time. I have the impression that even now we do not have a crystallized proposal on who can be chosen for certain judicial functions, i.e. judicial authorities. Secondly, it is good for the Justice Committee to withdraw this proposal and make one solution based on these decisions, so that we, as the Assembly, can discuss it later. There must have been a lot of reasons, so much before one of these proposals was allowed, because we're talking about people who can't answer what's been said in this House, because they're not able to, and there were very bad and difficult qualifications, which can have greater repercussions to work in the judicial authorities, especially when it comes to people who will be presidents of the courts. Second, why the law on justice, or the law on courts, was not pending. We criticised the law, which was criticised by DOS people before, and something similar happened with the University Law. You know that example, the 1998 law was criticised as a non-civilization law, as a law that takes away the autonomy of the university, etc., but that is why, immediately after the election of the Minister of Education, we used it to appoint all new people, new deans, new principals of primary and secondary schools, regardless of how the teaching - scientific council pleaded. This is where history repeats itself. We're going to court now, we're not waiting for court law, we're in a hurry. We've spoken before that we have so many prepared men, and we're just waiting to win power, so we're going to adopt all these laws. However, we are now making decisions based on these laws, which are so criticised. Why -- so we can, practically, adopt what suits us more. And when it comes to health care, it's a similar situation, then education, and now the judiciary. If these three pillars, on which society rests, have been brought down, then it is known what the state will look like later. It is said here that there is no rematchism, but no one can convince us that among so many good judges in Serbia, both in municipal and county courts, especially when it comes to the presidents of the courts, none of the previous authorities are like that they can do these jobs, and that all those who are now proposed have all the qualifications. And the samists, already at the beginning of yesterday's session, criticised that there were judges, or candidates for county court presidents, who had never spent one day in a municipal or county court. I think it's impossible and it's really very unserious. Well, you know that, I don't work in court and I don't know these jobs. I work in education, in college, but you know in college who can do what jobs and when to work. An assistant trainee can be the one who has a minimum average of 8 in basic studies, he has to spend four years as an assistant, in order to eventually master and to be re-elected for four years as an assistant in calling a magistrate, in order that, if he was a doctor, he would be chosen as a doctor. So, first regular teacher's call, where he'd spend at least four years. So 12 years he has to spend in education, to be a valid professor, please, in order to eventually be a college dean. This is about people who haven't spent a day in the judiciary, or they weren't judges, and we're proposing them. There's a lot of candidates like that. As far as my environment is concerned, I come from Vranj, so I represent the Pcinj County, I looked at that list of candidates, I don't even have a lot of objections, except for this principle -- that someone can't be the president of the county court, unless he was before that a judge or a municipal or county court. There's still talk of rematchism. Taiwanishism is increasing with these decisions, with this choice of judges for various judicial authorities. That's why the question arises - when will the end of such rematchism come if we choose people only according to party membership? They've probably been chosen before, but not to that extent. They've probably been replaced by people before, but they're not completely demoted, as it seems today. We still can't get rid of these conflicts, so someone said the other day that we were still fighting over it and conflicts on the issue -- which were Chetniks, which were Partisans after 50 years and over. I will have another concrete example, since it has already been mentioned here on several occasions ( since we now choose judges for various judicial authorities) to which the executive power can be above judicial and legislative. A classic example is the case mentioned here, which is JUMKO, where convicted directors were because they sold their products, or uniforms, and one of the directors who was hit, however, was not involved in this case, he said - we cannot sell eggs, but we must sell uniforms. JUMKO is one of the largest factories in Europe, in the textile area, and it is normal to produce uniforms for all who can pay. It's not just about Albanian terrorists, they've sold many others. Speaking of which, JUMKO has a store registered in Presevo, where an Albanian works, and it is normal that he ordered these uniforms, more than in other shops. Such uniforms were sold in Belgrade, and in all other areas. You're more affected by uniforms, and it doesn't affect you that these same people have been shooting at our country for 78 days. When it comes to judicial authorities, this is what I would have done, it is necessary, and I suggest that this committee once an ambush, at the end of all these discussions, and that it gives us one rash proposal of judges who can compete, based on the various criteria that exist, because I believe that there was probably a competition, and conditions in these competitions -- who can do certain judicial work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12106	The People's Messenger Dusan Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you, you and our public, that yesterday the Democratic Party's representative challenged Mrs Jelisavete Vasilic's election as President of the Higher Economic Court in Belgrade, mildly and superficially, but still challenged it. Better say, the Democratic Party has disputed the choice of this candidate slightly and superficially, without any valid argument. I don't personally know and believe that most of you don't know him, and God forbid that one day we live in a country where our citizens won't know the names of the president of the courts, or the president of the municipalities, or the names of the MPs, or the names of the ministers. When we live in such a country, I will know that we live in a land of prosperity. The path to such a country leads through judicial reform. That's why I'm surprised that someone who supports a government that considers itself a reform challenge or, better say, slows down, changes in economic courts, which we all feel is necessary. If the changes in the judiciary are symbolized by Mrs Karamarkovic, Mrs Skero or Mr Vučetic, then we must add the name of candidate Jelisaveta Vasilic to that list of names. It has been behind it since February, the professional public and her colleagues, then, the opinion of the Serbian Supreme Court and the Justice Committee, which also supports the government that considers itself reformal. Disputing such a candidate on the surface, as did the DS representative, is the least said inconclusive, if we start from his intentions being honest and pure. I note that the Supreme Court of Commerce has special significance in the time ahead. Our economy is in a difficult state and this is mainly due to the behaviour that is the subject of this court's interest. Commercial courts, as they have been so far, have led, for example, to the fact that the head of SUP in the municipality of Stara Pazov must keep the seal of the Dijana carpet factory, because the Chamber of Commerce in Sremska Mitrovica was making solutions that were opposite to each other. Minister Vlahovic himself informed the Finance Committee that the ministry has formed a commission to review property transformation irregularities under previous laws. The commission has received over a hundred requirements for reviewing regularity, of which dozens have been forwarded to the judiciary. These are all arguments that tell us that it would be very irresponsible to leave the Senior Commercial Court with V.D. Presidents. I think we'd have to do this responsible job at this session. That's why I'm calling on DS representatives to reconsider their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12108	Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12109	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we need an argument to explain such an important procedural problem that has arisen during our debate. I think it's in the best interest of all of us that, in any case, whether it's a court in the Sabari municipality or the High Court of Commerce, we have a very clear situation. So it wouldn't be good to make a precedent right now. We don't discuss the quality of the proposed candidate here. But there have been some procedural misunderstandings that put us in a position to, by ignoring something that's very obvious, make ourselves a much bigger problem than a problem that seems to be prolonging the election, not a judge, but a President of the High Court of Commerce, because I am a candidate for such a thing is not a dispute. We appreciate the professional qualities of Mrs Vasilic, but we expect those who ask us to ignore two members of the Law on Courts to say so publicly. So I think the Justice Committee is a place where we can discuss this subject, so that we can cover this very important function legally, with the procedure that is being defined at this point. How did that leak happen? Probably out of trouble, because there were parallel candidates, and appointments and elections for a whole series of judicial and prosecutorial functions. But our wish is to avoid any disputes that may arise if they occur in this way, and Mr Pajtic has pointed out what the procedural failure is, to make the choice of the President of the Higher Court of Commerce and thus bring a whole series of future activities under some suspicion. If we had to analyse in one legal void the problem encountered with the proposal for a public prosecutor by Mr Nedic, we do not have to make the same mistake now. It was a legal void, and we couldn't do any different, but as decided by the Justice Committee. A person who does not have the legal right to perform a function not even V.D. a republican public prosecutor, because he is 69 years old, has proposed a replacement for himself to the Justice Committee, although the Justice Committee is not in charge of anything like that. But in one legal interface, it was only possible that the interpretation given by the Justice Committee and which we discussed for a very long time. We have a problem here that, in my opinion, is trying to build a kind of parallelism. If we have disputed one solution, which is why we were exposed to criticism of the public, so we have to give in (as was the case with the choice of the Constitutional Court Judge, Mr Vučetic) we will now point to the Democratic Party as a party that prevents reform and the process of change in our society. We think we've had a lot of criticism in public by our coalition partners, precisely because we insisted on the pace and dynamics of change. But we believe that the Supreme Court in the process of change and reforms that are being carried out at this time in the country is a very important judicial institution. We are not prepared to enter into an deepening problem that will arise if this procedural misunderstanding is ignored. (President: Time. We'll see if it's a mistake or not. If the Justice Committee receives Ms Vasilic's candidacy as Judge of the Higher Court of Commerce, if it is found to be in the status of the Supreme Court judge, then there is no obstacle to her election as the President of the Higher Commercial Court. But we can't vote for the post and election of the President of the Major Court of Commerce if the person didn't even execute the candidacy, and we have indications that there's been a failure. The candidate himself and his professional credibility are not at all controversial. As far as we're concerned, at any moment, we will support the choice of this person as President of the High Court of Commerce, but in a legally established procedure. So, with respect to this law, as was the case in other situations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12110	Mr. Michael, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12111	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is mentioned here the issue of the election of Mr Vučetic and his placing out of force of an illegal decision. Of course, for the DSS, it's not a dispute. On the contrary, we felt that this decision did not exist, so it does not produce legal facts. But, as it is said, for his existential and other reasons it is necessary to make that decision and we agreed to it. Such a decision will be made if we agree at this session. One principle, established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, says there is no middle solution -- either respecting the procedure to the point or achieving quick results. It is a principle established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. She was probably guided by that principle when she accepted applications for public prosecutors and for all other functions. It means that procedures should not be respected to the point, if we want to achieve rapid results and improve reforms. If we are guided by these solutions, of course there is no problem in doing anything in this country and that any solution can be justified by quick results. That was the case so far, and that's what we've been watching and listening to. It's just, if we establish that principle, then that's fine. But to establish some principles that may not be good in this case, because they just don't stand, it's still not good. I don't think there are any procedural reasons to be listed here, because if there were, then we should blame the Justice and Administration Committee, which has completely illegally put us up to decide on it. Then let's call the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee and ask why he's delivering illegal proposals to the Assembly. I believe that Mr. Hiber, who is a prominent and professional lawyer, who is a professor of the university and a lawyer of knowledge, certainly wouldn't do that. I believe if that proposal came here, he was legal. The DSS will insist that this proposal is decided here. If necessary, let the Committee on Justice and Administration consider all the objections it has on the other proposals. But let's make a decision. We don't want anyone after accusing the Assembly, which may happen, to challenge the reforms by not choosing the President of the High Court of Commerce. We know that this can slow down reforms in the state, so we from the DSS just want to take off responsibility from the Assembly, which is heard from the government, because there are obstructions and everything else, and that reforms are slowing down. Law proposals go very slowly. Let us then, when we have the opportunity to influence reform quickly and choose the President of the Great Court of Commerce and thus make our contribution to the faster implementation of reforms in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12112	The People's Messenger Djordje Mamula has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12113	Most judges and judicial officials today in Serbia have been elected to those seats for the past 10 years, or have been judges before, so thanks to Serbia's Constitution, due to the continued office of judges today. That's what we had in mind when we were assessing the proposal and assessing the situation in the judiciary. The vast majority of judicial officials, especially the judge, have done their job properly, within the limits between minimums and the optimum of professional correctness. The problem was that some legal solutions were such that many acted according to the laws and likely faced their own safety, so that should be taken into account. I have to tell you that we've been going through the materials in the archives of the Assembly, the official messengers, and I can tell you that there hasn't been a lot of isolation for judges who perform that function today. In the past 10 years, the vast majority of judges have had the support of MPs, who are now a good part of the opposition. Don't forget that you've been supporting a large number of judicial officials. Of course there have been examples that can't be forgotten, I mean that justice minister Tom Ilic, who said that he would bring the judges on buses as needed at a given time. That's what no one asked of him, as far as I was told, to say something like that, nobody asked those who chose him that place, and it must have fucked a gesture to get out in public, and he welcomed today that he was in front of a pension like the President of the District Court in Leskovac. I must say, both the Supreme Court and the bar were consulted. It wasn't a practice until now. Representatives of Serbia's defence chambers are now coming regularly to give their opinion. If we hadn't called them, they'd say we'd be ignoring the profession. When we called them, it was obvious they didn't have any suggestions. Almost no legal chamber in Serbia has had proposals. There have been objections here and there because of some proposals, and the question is how far they have managed the criteria of the profession, and how many personal reasons. That's why the proposals are the way they are. What are the opportunities, so are the suggestions, and do not let us ignore what is known to everyone. Of course, I think that what is disputed here should be taken seriously, and it should be taken into account that if there are foreigners among the candidates for judges, or people who have dual citizenship, then, according to the criteria of the United Nations, it could not be respected, because then officers can also have dual citizenship, and members of the Government and diplomats, etc. Those are some of the reasons I thought I should distract myself. I think our conversation and the debate about the choice of judges, the story of all of us is a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12114	The word has a folk MP Dragan Jocic, followed by Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12115	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the need to clarify certain matters is imposed after a one-day discussion. The way judges are elected is a way that is outdated and inappropriate for new democratic circumstances. In fact, the way the Serbian Parliament chooses judges is a reflection of the rest of the unity of the government. One power, legislative, chooses another wave - court. That's not good. That should change, and if any criticism about the work of this government should fall, then it should fall for the adoption of a law on the election of judges. However, as it is now, the need for a certain solution is being imposed. In a discussion that was yesterday and which was today, MPs who participated in the discussion spoke as if the current government were choosing judges who would be politically alike. That's not true. Judges are not elected at all, conditionally speaking. The presidents of the court are elected. The difference between the judge and the president of the court, in the functions being carried out, is very large. Most of them won. The DOS has won with its parties and has the power, has the right to organise and choose the way in which the judiciary will establish the work of the courts. The presidents of the courts are neither judges, they are on the judge's formal criteria, but in fact they are the judges and organizers of the court's work. In certain circumstances, in courts where there aren't many judges, although it's very rare, the presidents of the courts take to court. However, the presidents of the courts do not have a trial at all, they do two things, which are the implementation of the court's rules of procedure and the functioning of the judicial administration. They are fully involved in judicial and executive affairs; they are carried out by the Registrar, who adopts this House and which lays down rules on internal organisation; they are engaged in the organisation of the judicial administration in relation to the organisation of the work of the court; by creating an annual plan and schedule of judges; by regulating issues from working relationship. Simply, the presidents of the court's guarantee that the court will work independently, in fact, will control the judges, but not in the way of making a decision, not in a moderate decision, but in terms of expeditionivity and order. Therefore, I would call this the choice of the president of the courts, although it must be called as a choice of judges, because the formal fact that someone must be a judge in order to become president of the court is our way of getting the judiciary, which is the right thing to do with Parliament Mamula, when it says that the judiciary is actually made up of the choice of the previous authority and by the wave of socialist, because the SRS had one principled position. This must be emphasized, that in one period she did not participate at all in the work of the Assembly committees, except in the past term with the Socialist Party, as it is now, so she has the full right to criticise the work without any kind of dawn. However, the judges elected are judges of the previous regime and are dealing with them. So far, no judge has been elected as judge in 160 and several municipal courts. This is the first time we've ever set up people who will actually do the work of the judicial administration and organize courts. We have deliberately stopped, although I am going back to that criticism again, unwarrantedly for a long time with the election of judges, because we expect a new law to be passed, where this legislative authority will not be elected by judges, but rather will choose certain bodies that will propose and make a choice, and perhaps the assembly will only declare it. As for all courts, one in this time for Serbia is the most important: it is an economic court, both the economic courts of cities and senior economic courts. The DSS, with other parties, has advocated that Judge Jelisaveta Vasilic will be the president of the Senior Court of Commerce, because her legal and moral dignity makes it possible. It's not justified when you say she's 61 years old, that she can't judge anymore. Jelisaveta Vasilic is a proposal to be president of the court for the reasons I mentioned, because she knows how courts function, she knows the network of organisations of economic courts, she knows how to handle cases and who she will simply account for. It simply accounts for itself, as well as that it is not a candidate for any political organisation. Her work so far has qualified for this place, which will be very, very thorny, because we enter into a period of state and social property to move into market property. We're turning into something called, whatever anyone wants to understand, but it's called selling some state or social resources. In this respect, there must be a man at the top of the court who is completely safe and clean. That's the candidate that's been proposed. I have to say that business courts, and the senior court of business as appeals, will deal with something they have to do, and as a rule should be very careful, because this job can lead to very large irregularities and very large material damages. These are: from keeping a company register to a business settlement, bankruptcy, liquidation, arbitration decisions and all that is called the capital of this State. Simply, our proposal was for her, or we remain on this proposal, because it is what convinces us of the quality and very great importance of the Court of Commerce. I will not underestimate even the courts of general jurisdiction, but the economic and senior economic court will play a key role in this period of our country's transformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12116	Rules of Procedure? Mr. Pitiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12117	Dear Presidency, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 99. - People's MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. In several previous presentations, we heard claims and completely wrong interpretations of the Law on the Selection of Judges. It is not at all a debate on the personal qualities of Mrs Vasilic and it was completely wrong to interpret my presentation yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12118	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica of exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12119	No, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, and I have the right three minutes to explain why the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. It was injured under Article 29. The law on the election of judges, which says the president of the court is elected for four years in the order of Judges and Article 43, which says the elected judge is obliged to take office within a period of no longer than two months. By the act of this assembly in February, Mrs Vasilic again became Judge of the High Court of Commerce. For 60 days, therefore, two months, she did not appear in the Court of Commerce, and automatically, pursuant to Article 43, she did not consider herself to be a judge, or was no longer elected: Article 43(2). The law on the choice of judges. Mrs Vasilic did not apply for the seat of the Supreme Court judge, gentlemen of the economy, and according to Article 29, the president of the court is elected for four years in the order of the judges. There's someone here who's in favor of breaking the law. We must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It was said that in a pale way I was talking about the way it was proposed. This was not, I hope, palely, since the previous several discussions were extremely incorrect and contrary to the legal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12120	Just tell me what the dignity of the congregation has been hurt in?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12121	The dignity of the Assembly has been violated because they are the wrong, malicious and falsely quoted provisions of the law, and this assembly is the Supreme and Legislative Body of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12122	Here's the first time I've lost my lines. I can't explain it, or I can put it to the Assembly to make a statement. I really don't have a text. Should I make a statement to the Assembly? No, I don't. What can I do for you, according to the Rules of Procedure? Just don't let it be the abuse of the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12123	No, just to call on the same member and the dignity of the National Assembly, because the things that are contrary to what the MP himself was saying yesterday, because he has just advocated that Mrs Vasilic, and we have heard that she has not applied in his words to be president, being the judge of the Higher Court of Commerce. Now he says he advocated yesterday that she be elected only as a member of a senior economic court. Now she says she's not for a senior court judge, so she says she didn't file a complaint. How can one day be offended by the dignity of the Assembly and advocate for someone to be elected only as a member, for the Judge of the Great Court of Commerce, and then we say today that she has not filed a valid application. Then it's two different things in one day. I think that's the way to insult the dignity of this congregation, when we hear two different things from the people who are professional in two days.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12124	Who's going now? Come on, one, the other, the third.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12125	Right on the line, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12126	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these are issues that must be discussed by the members of the Justice Committee themselves. I am obliged, perhaps due to the absence of Mr. Michael during yesterday's afternoon session or possibly an oversight, to remind myself that, after the Committee on the Legislatives of the Republic of Serbia, the magistrate of the law of Mr. Pajtic, and not anyone, we asked the Ministry of Justice to remove this dilemma, by forwarding the candidacys on which we could conduct the election of the President of the Higher Court of Justice. We have received a response from the Justice Ministry from whom yesterday, in a break between the afternoon and the afternoon session, sees that Mrs Vasilic did not apply for the judge, but only for the president, and in that is the difference, in what was said yesterday and what was said by the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives. This is a question for the Committee on Justice and I think it is therefore necessary to organise a session of the Committee at which this answer would be obtained, as well as a whole series of other answers. As far as the problem is concerned, he is present because the Committee has already conducted the debate twice and voted twice. In both cases, decisions were taken with abstentions from representatives of the two opposition parties, as well as the revote of the parties within the DOS, in which it is not true that the Democratic Party was lonely. On the contrary, it is not true that the chairman of the Justice Committee was restrained. It is he who has twice proposed, fearing this outcome, that a procedure should be specified which will extend Mrs Vasilic's election as the most certainly qualitative candidate for the post. So the personal solution isn't a problem, but it's a problem with the procedure. Let us be clearly told by the Justice Committee, as was the case, since MP Pavlovic has challenged the prosecutor's election procedure, that the Assembly or DS is asked to close its eyes to three members of the Law on Courts, and we will then assess whether we are ready to do so in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12127	Right on line, Mr. Pajtic, the first wanted, the first answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12128	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Michael's exposure was not very clear, but I realized that he was referring to me, which is why I call for the right to replication. I did not express my position either as a member or as an MP for the Democratic Party. I brought it up as a lawyer and as president of the Legislative Committee. My professional and personal conscience does not allow me to violate, in such a harsh way, the Law on the Choice of Judges, which is proposed and so important, I remind you, it is the highest judicial function in the economy. Above the High Court of Commerce, there is no higher instance at the level of economy. I must repeat once again, a dozen DSS members have proposed, or they have debated in this direction, that members 43 and 29. The law on the choice of judges. It's a professional, personal conscience that doesn't allow me to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12129	Right on the line, Mr. Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12130	I would like to see perhaps until the end, as this session develops, we hear the real reasons why the Democratic Party is contesting the election of Jelisaveta Vasilic for this place and why she does not want to see it. Maybe that's what we hear by the end of the debate. When we refer to the procedure, it should always be insisted on in every place, not from opportunity to opportunity, from case to case, as is happening here. In the course of one day I learn two different information, I don't believe it, and I don't believe this explanation that I've heard, that something is known, and something doesn't know, and especially when it's very well controlled by the Republic Government and especially by the Ministry of Justice, so that these remarks we've heard and brought out of the sleeves to challenge the choice of a permanent, professional, highly qualified woman for that place, Mrs Jelisavete Vasilic. I am interested in what the real motives are, and I believe that the citizens of Serbia and all the businessmen in this country, especially in the process of privatisation, rehabilitation, liquidation, bankruptcy, are interested in hearing why someone does not want to see the position of the President of the Higher Economic Court someone whom the profession proposes and for whom no opposition has any objections to expertise and honesty. These are the reasons I want to hear here, especially because the Justice and Administration Committee did not say and did not dispute the legality of Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic's election as president of the Senior Court of Commerce. In Mr Hiber, I have no reason to doubt, especially after the reasons he gave us for electing public prosecutors, so that we from the Democratic Party of Serbia respect the procedure, we will always respect it, but let us always and properly discuss the procedure, and perhaps not in a way that is not real and when it suits us, to hide the essence of the reason behind the procedure. And maybe, when the debate starts to open, we get to know the essence and the citizens why someone doesn't care that a fair, safe and responsible man performs that function.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12131	I'm setting a break until 3:30. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I figure there's no quorum. Otherwise, meetings of the Committee on Justice and the Administrative Committee are under way. I suggest a break by 4:00 and five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12133	I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum. I find there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by MP Zivorad Rakovic. After him, MP Branislav Blazic. There's no Mr. Rakovic. I'm sorry, Mr. Rakovic is here, but I don't know if he'll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12134	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed representatives of the Government (I do not notice that any of the representatives of the Government are present), distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12135	Come closer to the microphone, you can't hear yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12136	Don't worry, Mr. President, I've taught a hundred thousand students without a microphone. So I can speak for this little time without a microphone. This morning I protested that yesterday I applied for a discussion to say something, as our people would say, about a debate during yesterday. Since I wasn't called yesterday afternoon, I asked them to tell me where my application was. The secretary told me my applications were gone. They called me today. Since I had other responsibilities in the field of education, I jumped to finish the job. Then they called me and I was gone. That's why I intervened this afternoon for the first call, so please listen to me. There's something I need to tell you as an educator and ask you to do. Since I don't understand myself in the judiciary, in this action, I recommend to others who don't understand that they don't talk about it as much as they talk about it, because they just don't know it. When there is educational action or some related work on the agenda, I will certainly, very actively take part in the debate, to contribute as an elected MP by the people who are here to solve people's problems, the problems that this troubled, tired and tormented people have and which requires us to solve. No one here has the right to behave differently. We are not God-given, so that the people are happy, as in the on-communist and uncommunist times, that we are here. We must be happy to be sent here. Our only and most important obligation is to solve what is burdening our people. What are we doing here? We just want to take a picture. I'm not into painting. Don't take any pictures of me at all. I don't need that. I have another request. Do not let our troubled people, who watch television broadcasts from our congregation, listen to very ugly words, very primitive expressions, unsuitable accusations. What thieves, criminals, gangsters, mobsters, etc.? Don't talk about wild boars or pet animals. Leave it alone. Today, the judiciary, or judicial authorities, is on the agenda. Let's work this out. The opposition must understand that it should make remarks, if any, on proposals from the ruling coalition, to criticise and propose new solutions rather than talk about Mark's finals. Please, I haven't heard any other solution here. No one suggested any other solution. Just trees and rocks! Come on, let's do something for this people! Watch out, other nations are watching you! One more thing to say: No one should call the president such words, such qualifications. That's inadmissible. It's primitiveism. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12137	There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic. After him, MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12138	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the judiciary, in any case, is not as good, as in all spheres of our society. There's more to this situation. One of the important reasons is the politicization of our judiciary. What DOS promised - that it would depolitise social activities, public services, that there would be no depolitisation of health, education, justice, the MUP. We've got that politicization getting stronger. There have been many explanations and arguments here that this is the way the judges and the president of the courts are elected, because it is the 1991 Law on Courts. Why does DOS work under ten-year laws? In fact, that law has been in force for 11 years, because one of your years has been incorporated into that law. You can check the way the law is changed and the way the judges and the president are elected. This law, in fact, suits you, because you want to set up your own people. We have a system of reporting from individual backgrounds, from a locale, which the judge should be. There's a question of what you're changing. You only change people, and the system stays the same. Is Pera from SPS, Djura from DOS, or someone from JUL, the perfect difference is, if the system is the same. Nothing important changes. Nothing good can be expected of our judiciary. Therefore, you have a moral that you speak of, and you do not carry out a moral that you do, and you do not stand up for it. Why is it important to depolitize the judiciary? When politics is involved and the judiciary is pressured, it seems very negative for two reasons. One reason is that there is a choice in political resemblance, and there is politicisation. Another reason is that some judges and courts, protected from their political parties, are becoming sloppy, unsupervised, which reflects seriousness and responsibility. Anyway, we have some proposals here that are being challenged. It is amazing at all that you can vote for a man who is a citizen of the Hungarian state, who is 60 years old, such as Mr. Tamash Korhec. What can be expected of this method of work? Inside the DOS, there is a lot of controversy over the election of a senior court president, where it has been announced that there will be reasons why one party in the DOS will not choose that person. That's probably what you should have said. Now, there's a misunderstanding that underneath the grain there's something very suspicious. I don't understand your optimism that there's going to be something better, that something is going on dizzyly in our total everyday life. Your behavior reminds me of optimism on that American window washer anecdote, which falls from the 100th floor and counts to 98th floor, and it says, when nothing happened to me in these 98 floors, there's probably nothing going to be in these two floors either. However, there will be a terrible fall and your breaking, precisely because you either have no power or are unable to set yourself up otherwise, to really execute that depolitisation, to democratisation, to start respecting the profession, value, quality, and not to be constantly in some of your internal conflicts exclusively advocated by some of your staff, which you will introduce or otherwise come up with. That is why I think it is absurd to even talk about such a choice of judges, and I think it simply must be withdrawn and another law, which will make the choice quite different, to let the expertise and knowledge decide, not to give individual MPs and groups of MPs, or members of parties in certain areas, decide who can perform that function, or not. There are several reasons why I'm going to make a proposal right now, which I think is quite well established. First of all, you haven't cleared the presidents of the courts, and you choose the others, you try to pick other people in the full-time jobs. Then, even V.D.'s choice was challenged here. a republican public prosecutor, that he was not legally elected. We have no opinion from the courts of individual courts, we have a dispute within the DOS itself. Therefore, these are all the reasons why I wish to challenge in principle, by not entering either, the choice of all the presidents of the courts and judges and by seeking an individual statement for each proposed candidate. I think it's necessary, otherwise, to choose in a package of everything, after all the discussions we've heard, after the way you want to choose them, I don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12139	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic. He's not present. ) There is a word from MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12140	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I support my esteemed colleague, Mr. Rakovic. This is a serious domain, and we have to be serious MPs. Today, a colleague of mine mentioned my name and said I should get a public notice about a throwout. Despite the mention of the name, I didn't get the right to a replica, but that doesn't mean I should have made a mess here, or that, God forbid, they have to take me out of the pay phone, like one of my inconclusive, unrespectable colleagues did. I suggest that this security guard gets paid a kilo of the burden, not per hour of work, and one of them complains to me, he says, so where exactly is this big one? Today we are talking about serious issues, the choice of judicial authorities and officials in the judiciary. We of the Duke Coalition have long dreamed of freedom together with others; we have welcomed this dream along with others. It is a dream of freedom and democracy, the dream implies a strict division of power by the legislative, judicial and executive, and also implies an independent judiciary. We are not the ones who will claim that after these choices of the judicial authorities we will indeed have an independent judiciary 100%. But, to be clear, this is one big step forward and we believe that Professor Hiber and the Minister of Justice had to make some concessions, to make this first small, but in fact a big step towards an independent, truly independent judiciary. To that end, I do not approve, regardless of what I was the target of the party, the publication of the footage of Zeljko Simic in daily newspapers, before the completion of the investigation process, before the trial, etc. So, I don't want to go that way in the judiciary, but I believe that today's or tomorrow's election of new judicial officials, we're going to make a good start. What did those who ruled before us leave us? They left us poverty, we welcomed freedom of the poor, broken economy, and as a product, we got corrupt and no justice. If we had shut down 50% of their judges immediately, they wouldn't have made any mistake. Often between these judges and judicial officials, and criminals, there was no big difference. In front of the Vojvodina Coalition, I will ask for such a procedure, that the President of the Indjia Municipal Court be voted out, and that the President of the Municipal Court of Batocin's vote is set aside. Also, in the name of democracy, I must stress that in this Batocina, if Zoran Dobrosavljevic is a candidate, that is why I ask that he be singled out, because I disagree with that choice. The man was checked out by the SPS in all election commissions, and now he's courting the new government by persecutes the pain of his early yesterday party colleague from JUL, which was one and the same, Zivojinovic Slobodana. I don't want to get a piece like that, eventually. I think today's opposition hurts just because too many of their people might have stayed in our ranks. They'd be happy if they stayed in their party, but I think they're afraid that such frames can change the game. Also here today, a party has accused the minister from the ranks of this party of some hunting sites, etc. I'm telling them we'll open the beast for them and lock them all up there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12141	There's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12142	I don't know if anyone was behind the pay phone, but you should have reacted, Mr. President, when it was said that half the judges today were to be arrested and that it would not be a sin. Such an insult to the Serbian judiciary has never been said before, so one bloc slaps 50% of judges in Serbia, only someone who doesn't understand at all why he came after this speaker, or understands what he says about this speaker. This was happening at a time of Communism: to show up Tito, or someone else, so he says -- there are thieves in the people, and 20 million people in Yugoslavia are shaking whether someone will knock on their door that night. But, you here, with the right of you as a majority, change the presidents of the courts, even before the time they were elected, even before the vacancy, even before the competition was called, to place someone first elected as judge in the same minute, so no case has been filed as a judge, I am giving you the right to do so. You do whatever you want, most of you are, I have experience with one majority who did the same thing, so now she's gone like most. But don't let the 50% of Serbia's judges now not know if they're on that list they're going to arrest or on a list that someone will kindly pardon, as it presents an invitation to the judges to join DOS parties, so that they might, eventually, stay at large. I repeat, perhaps for the last time - we are really not personally affected by the choice or shift of any judge in Serbia. Last night we were told a lie that we were interested in a judge in the Frogs. That's not true. The man's been President of the court for 18 years. He couldn't influence Vojislav Seselj's choice. We've never been in front of a court like he's guilty, so he's looking to get as little punishment as possible. We've been politically persecuted, but there's no guilt here. The punishment depends on what the political leader of this country has ordered. But I repeat, some of these judges need to be protected. It is best to protect most of them in the Serbian Parliament. That's, I guess, real protection. So they don't turn out to be protected by minorities, so they have to experience worse than what they've been experiencing. It would be good for someone from the parliamentary majority to come out and say that not 50% of the judges in Serbia deserved to go to jail, that someone said it on their own, and someone who spoke on his own, and I guess who was probably behind this speaker before me, does not represent the majority in the National Assembly. If he's a real representative of this majority, then you're certainly not writing well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12143	Mr. Risticevic, like every MP, does not represent DOS. The DOS is the president of the parliamentary group. He spoke for himself and bears the consequences of what he said, before him and before the public. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't blame Marijana Risticevic, because it's a living example of negative evolution, as a man walks without a brain. That's also lucky, 'cause he can't get a blood out of his brain. Let's get to the point. Actually, I'd just like to say a few words. Unfortunately, there is no Ceda Jovanovic. I'll speak exclusively for Zrenjanin. In Zrenjanin it was known that for days there was a controversy, who would be the president of one court, who would be the president of another court. But it ended the way it ended. I don't want to talk about candidates. I'd like to get right to the point. I challenge the candidacy for the President of the Municipal Court in Obrenovac - Ante Bošković, for the President of the Municipal Court in Ub - Bozidar Vasic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Osijek - Ivan Ristivojevic, for the President of the District Court in Vranja - Aleksandr Stojković, for the President of the Municipal Court in Bujanovac - Siniš Stojljković, for the President of the Municipal Court in Bosilegrad - Boris Georgiev, for the President of the Municipal Court in Vranja - Snježana Janjic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Kljažić - Dragiš Cvejic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Knezić - Sofia President of the City Court of Zagreb, President of the President of the Municipality of Zupolić, Boris Žunić, for the President of the Municipality of the Municipality of the Municipality of Račić – Gorica Cović Cović, for the President of the Municipality of Čorić, the Municipality of Šorić, for the President of the Municipality of the Municipality of the Municipality of the Municipality of the Republic of the Republic of Šovrštinić, the Republic of Šović, the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Šivić, the Republic of the Republic of Šivić. I particularly dispute for the President of the District Court in Suboticidr Tamas Korhec, because he is not a citizen of Yugoslavia. I challenge the President of the Municipal Court in Koseric Jovis Lazarevic. In a commercial court I challenge: for the President of the Economic Court in Novi Sad - Vladimir Beider. I particularly challenge the judge of the Court of Commerce in Subotica - Ana Marki Bin. Why am I contesting that? All these court presidents were never judges for one day. Today they are appointed judges and immediately appointed presidents of the courts. Let's make it a little hygiene. Name them today as judges, and in the next assembly name them Presidents of the Court Sir, whether I'm serious or not, time will tell. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12145	National MP Marijan Risticevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12146	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the previous speaker mentioned me and I have the right to a replica. Not only did he mention me, he tried to insult me. I did say in that exhibit that we found a corrupt judiciary and that we could have put 50% in jail. That's what I'm behind. If I have to, I can bring you a price list of your judiciary, how much money are the cases taken care of, etc. Crime flourished during your reign, while you exercised power while you wondered in the judiciary. I'm still standing by my word. Anyone who wishes can be fenced from me, and anyone who wants to support me, welcome. As far as evolution is concerned, the gentleman who mentioned it and similar to him were not during that period Darwin's theory passed. They should be returned to the tree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12147	Mr. Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12148	I'm advertising Article 99's injury. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. Mr. President, you just said this isn't the way the DOS can be represented. He came out on the line, took the opportunity to say that he wasn't according to Darwin's theory, he wasn't born, he wasn't developing, he wasn't going to die, and you weren't going to warn him. It's something that's characteristic when it comes to this MP. This MP first said what Serbia's future is. Serbia's future is in stadiums to be closed. Now you say what is the near future of judges, not only of those who have been replaced, but of those you now choose or whom we choose. To them, the future is a prison. As far as the former judiciary is concerned, it was impeccable. The coalition partner Dragan Veselinov, Nenad Canak, makes arguments from day to day, evidence of what Dragan Veselinov stole, what the Alliance of Vojvodina did, headed by Dragan Veselinov. No court has convicted him, despite this evidence. Why don't the members of the Vojvodina Coalition answer for that? Were they in any special or secret relationships with the former government? I guess my colleague from the Vojvodina Coalition doesn't know that, but he knows his president. But it is impossible for coalition partners, who were together until yesterday, to present almost five years of evidence as to how those who are now in the Vojvodina Coalition, stole, headed by Dragan Veselinov. When you're so honest and honest, why don't you come out and fence yourself from your president's thief?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12149	I didn't give a warning, because the gentleman gave a principled view of who should return to the tree. Otherwise, I disagree with him, but it's a matter of my getting along or disagreement. He did not direct it to anyone in particular, nor did he insult anyone, nor could anyone be recognized. I didn't understand that you and he were DOS. I thought Chada represented DOS. ) Well, he did not represent DOS, as you do not represent the Serbian Radical Party. She is represented by the president of the parliamentary group. You represent yourself. The word has a folk MP Slavoljub Matic, followed by Rade Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12150	Mr. President, I'm sorry I was late for your call, I was at the Justice Committee meeting and I was about to listen to part of the Committee's presentation. I was very interested in the very part of the candidate for the President of the Higher Economic Court in Belgrade, Mrs Vasilic. What normally prompted me to apply for my discussion is not only a question of candidates for the president, for the Higher Commercial Court, for Mrs Vasilic, but also what was yesterday an MP here, in one impertinent and rude manner, raised the question of some candidates for high judicial functions. To go out and tell lies behind this speaker, and that faceless lie, I don't think it works out for anyone who brings it up, or the party that brought it here. The latest results on some additional elections, particularly in the municipality of Pogorec, show that such a way of political performance only brings negative points, not positive. This party that I'm thinking about, and I'm not going to say her name on purpose, in the additional elections in the municipality of Požarec, in the village of Dubravica, she only got two votes -- and that's a lot, so someone says. I guess he didn't even vote for himself. The mention of May 9th by members of that same party, I think it's hypocritical. (Tomislav Nikolic throws out of place. Don't throw it at me, I never throw it at you. You know what you said earlier, you caused a replica, of course. The insolence you said, I think it deserves you to get out of this high house, shame on me to say for the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12151	You conduct dialogues and talks, MP, finish your presentation, and you, Mr. Nikol will not throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12152	The mention of the candidate for deputy district attorney Pavel Pavlovic through the context that, through his influence in "Electristation" Pozharevic, he was able to make a July or family lawyer for the Milosevic family - Markovic to take huge money through representing the company in the process against the debtors, I think it is also unreasonable and hypocritical, because people who advocated democratic changes did not have such an impact. The mention of Dmitra Krstev, not only from this pay phone, but through the press, through the context of May 9th in Pozarevec, is also hypocritical and defenceless because Dmitar Krstva made sure that the resistance from Pozharec did not receive criminal charges, i.e. an investigation into the attempted murder, but to be in the process of participation in a fight. Also, mentioning this kind of candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Žabari, it made today's Justice Committee postpone the question of the president, but what the citizens, the locals of the frog municipality, informed me, seemed to me to refer precisely to the president of the court. They spoke to a similar dictionary, not for this speaker, but for the phone. So that's what we inherited and that's what certainly this high house has to set up as one of the first tasks, and that's first, discipline in the work in this assembly of that part of the MPs, on the one hand. On the other hand, there is also a procedure to get this country an independent judiciary as soon as possible, and the results in Dragovac and Dubravica show their own. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12153	Replica? On what grounds? Veroljub Arsic, from the scene: He talked all the time about my presentation yesterday. ) He didn't mention a name or a party, you don't have the right to a replica. Neither the name nor the party is mentioned. He said function? If he said function, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12154	Mr. Matic, when you mention the gentleman, as is called, Pavle Pavlovic, first of all, I would like to tell you that the following candidates for the deputy district attorney: Bojan Bojic - deputy municipal public prosecutor from Požarevec; Adelaide Angelkovic - judge of the Municipality of Požarec; Ljubisa Vasic - deputy municipal public prosecutor from Požarec; Gordana Mitić-judge of the Municipal Court in Pozarevec and Slavica Petrović - lawyer. I believe we would all be better deputy district attorneys than your candidate, Mr. Pavle Pavlovic. I'm glad you came out and touched that case. I didn't want to say it at all, but now it's clear to everyone, at least to me it's 100% clear that the DSS is doing and putting its staff in the judiciary. So, Mr. Pavle Pavlovic is a worker of the Public Enterprise "Electromorava" Pogorjevac. Mr. Slavoljub Matic, who was behind this pay phone before me, worked at Elektromorava Fireman until he became a folk MP and president of SO Fireman. The connection is quite clear -- that one candidate who is certainly worse by expertise than all those I've listed has come to this place to be proposed as deputy district attorney. As far as the Lord of the Frog is concerned, it's clear. Citizens can call him those who love one or the other, and I've put concrete material evidence here. He's got nothing but phone calls, and as far as the old president of the court is concerned, I didn't even mention him, and I can't think of a man I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12155	The word has a folk MP, Rada Bajic, and the next is National MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12156	Dear People's MPs, we had a two-day debate that simply and absolutely confirmed that this item of the agenda was absurd, when it was placed at an extraordinary meeting of the Republic Assembly. At least two are reasons to say that absurdity is what has been put in place, which is that no number of rules are respected, neither legal nor logical, when it comes to proposals. Also, such missed legal rules are not respected, and we have had opportunities to see that about a dozen items have been withdrawn in the last ten days, or a dozen names have been overwritten and other names have been placed. We didn't even get a reason why these names were overwritten and why these people, who have already been informed that they will be presidents of the economy or other courts, were deleted and other candidates were placed at their posts. No less important reason is that we have noticed here and no one is challenging the winners, or DOS's right to simply agree, even in many cases they are not respected or agreed. Obviously, when I said that many rules were broken, both legal and logical, individuals here who came out of DOS can't rely on some bad previous law that was. Did the law restrict the selection of judges who do not have a higher average than 6.5, whether the law has been restricted and determined that judges who have been studying for more than 10 years can be elected and whether the law has set out that the judge and the president of the court can be elected even if they have not served as judges at all, or if his working time has expired. I really don't see it, and it's just one transparent maneuver to say that the bill was bad. If he was bad, you should have changed him and then built the rules by which the judges would be elected. Clearly, no matter what he is, he should be respected, so there was no interference in choosing the right personnel of the judiciary. I will then give you an example, which I know and which is interesting, but it's very important that this item of the agenda goes public, so to speak. Many interested ones have contacted me, whether workers or judges, the congregation is watching, and it is clear what is being discussed. It's my duty, because of those who voted, to simply say what they told me, without a word, about those who should be appointed and those who need to change. The fact is that the political review of the work of the courts is a typical example of political pressure on the court. How else do we explain it if we want an independent judiciary? A circulatory letter, which changes the president -- has been said that the impunity and inadequate work of the judiciary and the difficult situation in a given court is the reason for changing a certain president of the court. Simply, in many cases, and we saw that in the debate, I'm going to show you an example that I'm going to make, that it's absolutely not true. I will take an example of the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad, where in a court with one-third of the membership, or judges who are actively working, despite daily claims to fill out the vacant posts, more cases (1.295) are done on average by the judge in 2000 than in the previous year. The average per judge is about 378 cases higher than the average in the Republic. Then how can you simply say that this court is unscheduled? This assembly and the president of our assembly received a letter from the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad, which describes the case in detail. With the same content, many courts addressed, from a meeting of the president of the courts held in Panchev, and this letter was sent to the Ministry, and to our Justice and Administration Committee and to the President of the Assembly, that it simply did not stand a flat-rate assessment for all courts that they were unscheduled. I'm just saying an example for the New Sad Economic Court. I don't even know the judge who's working now, and his name is Mile Korać, he's a magistrate, and he's not even a judge who needs to come to his post, Mr. Vladimir Beader. However, from several Novi Sad companies, significant firms where he ran disputes, I was called by many workers who filed criminal charges against him and informed of this on September 12th and the president of the Martians, both the minister of justice and our Committee on Justice and Administration. The only thing they're bitter about is that nobody did anything about it. I don't think that if criminal charges are filed, he'll be guilty, but simply, if five companies have filed criminal charges in the disputes he's been working on, then someone and our entire Justice Committee need to reconsider that. I didn't say a word, because I was raised that I couldn't say it, and I have no proof. However, many citizens and many workers spoke to me, and in writing, what else do you have here and proof that they spoke in writing to all these institutions, and the New Sad metal union. I will not say a single word, nor have I the right, but I think I have the right to simply point out here that our organs, and the president, the Justice and Minister's Committee, have received this letter and that I think we should consider it on the Justice Committee. Normally, we all ask why this kind of political pressure is now, and it's said that we want an independent judiciary, that some judges set themselves up with such a bad feature. Worst of all, many judges who are absolutely certainly proposed, who are honorable, who are top experts, will also feel the same way about those individuals who have such negative characteristics. All the events that preceded this, can simply logically impose such a conclusion on every man, no matter what he was in this matter. How else can it be interpreted, when all those criminals and Kosovo terrorists were released, who were killed, whom our militia served as clay pigeons, where our young men served as living targets for killing. They're released from prison, with no remorse at all, and no one's asking, and nobody's asking, even if one of our poor fellows was arrested or kidnapped, to let him go, even if we knew if he was alive or if they were alive. No one thought to ask for one. How else can I explain, and only the judges who are so appointed and who will nod their heads and say politics -- yes, that's how we're going to do it, to end the verdict of the criminals who bombed us and who come here. It's as if criminals are returned to the scene, legal judgments are lifted, even procedures, or investigative proceedings, are lifted, and everything is back to square one. Is this their amnesty? Is it a sign to the West that we will never ask them for any war reparations? I repeat, it was only a judge who had neither the love of this people nor the honor of the court. In the end, how to interpret that the citizen of this country, the previous president of the state, simply hijacks or how to say otherwise, is not even kidnapped, because the court simply... (President: Mr. Bajic, please return to the agenda, I warn you. ....................................................................................................... in whose jurisdiction he was and is simply kidnapped and that no one answers from the judiciary for it. Therefore, political pressure for judges to do as the policy tells them, i.e. executive authority, is a typical example of judicial policy interference.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12157	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, and the next reported for discussion is MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12158	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since there is no one from the Government, I wanted to welcome the minister, because I think he should have attended this debate. I had a dilemma about whether to report for the discussion, after all those evaluations of our fellow graduate lawyers, with a passed judicial exam, about many with a master's degree and a doctorate, who is involved in legal science, or who are doing it in practice, in the form of an honorable profession. I want to say that I expected this congregation with much more respect to both these people and this profession. Imagine if the discussion of the medical profession, about education and other areas of life were conducted in this way, the picture of our reality would certainly be very ugly. The situation in the judiciary has been assessed as very bad. I have one question - is the situation in other areas of life any better, is the state of business, agriculture, health, education and other branches better than the state of justice? I think anyone who would make arguments against what I said would have a lot of trouble to give a valid explanation and to convince me that only in the judiciary things don't work so well and that only in the judiciary should one cleanup be done in this way that this is shown. After proposals like this, and my criticism primarily refers to the way the proposal is adopted and presented to this assembly, I think we are getting a very invisible situation for a large circle of people covered by this topic. We have a few situations. We have, let's say, a situation where the President of the Court is resolved, that many presidents who are put on the list are simply resolved, with an explanation that the courts are impeccable. Court impeccableness is measured by certain percentages, and that is shown. Every man who, for this reason at least, has been resolved after several years or decades in that profession deserves at least half the page to be devoted to him, to write - this one and that one is resolved because there are so many cases in that court and it is not solved, is a bad organization, etc. We can't just go to court law and say that all the presidents of the court are resolved because of their unscheduledness. There was a much more correct qualification that we heard from the discussions of several MPs of the ruling majority, which is that it is inevitable and that these are shifts caused by changes in the structure of the government, i.e. changes on the political scene, and that is much fairer, so it was said. So, sir, you were president during some previous regime, we now came to power, you're not answering us, and it would remain that way in some biography of that man, so you wouldn't have to be ashamed and his descendants say the next day -- here's our ancestor who was the president of the court, which is not a small function in this country, he's been relieved because he didn't answer to the current government. That's much more honest for that man too. We have a situation to resolve the President of the Court, and we don't appoint a new president. This is one situation that is very serious and that occurs in several cases. This situation is bringing all of us into a dilemma about how these courts are going to work. We have examples that several court presidents have been practically announced, and no proposals for the appointment of new presidents have been found at today's session. How will the Business Court in Kragujevac function until next session, when it will get its president, if we resolve a respected colleague who is now performing this function, and what he will do until the next session, whether he has the authority to manage his colleagues or not, how he will organise the work of other services, etc. It's something to think about, and I don't think this is anything unusual, and I'm not talking about anything that's out of the question, which is very serious. As for the situation that many of our colleagues are proposed and then removed from the list, it should also be seen in another context. All these people have families, they have friends, they have colleagues who respect them, more or less, but it's very ugly and unpleasant if you're on the list today, and tomorrow they just delete you. You don't have an explanation, you're probably uncomfortable in a shorter or longer period, at the very least, or you'll experience other unpleasantness of the larger scale. In any case, I think with this way of proposing the Justice Committee has nevertheless underestimated the importance of what we are talking about today and that this should have been done much better. If a question arises who should be the President of the Court in any environment, I have had the opportunity to talk to many colleagues, very quickly there is a narrowing of that list to a few candidates, where we all agree that they are quality people. So, regardless of party membership and regardless of political commitment. It's just that in every environment, you know who's honest, who's quality, who's valuable and who's good at doing his job, and in the judiciary it's even simpler because there are criteria in grading, which are numerically expressed, so everyone has their own grade. We have another situation that I have to mention in principle and criticise, which is that we happen to have people coming from lower courts and becoming elders of senior courts, specifically that judges of municipal courts become presidents of district courts. Respecting the personal and all other qualities of these people, however, I must say that these are some rules that were not introduced during the regime of Slobodan Milosevic or in the last 40, 50 or 60 years of the period of which it was mentioned, these are some primal rules that a student cannot overnight become an elder to his teacher, that he who was judged by that senior court suddenly became an elder. I think it's going to be hard and unpleasant for that man too, and it won't be easy for him to run an organ like that. Normally, many of you have probably received many letters and faxes, which keep coming here, into this congregation, where inside collectives react to exactly these cases. I think that we should have received some information about each candidate, respecting him as a person above all, about his date of birth, his movements in service, qualifications, and everything that is relevant to today's decision, in some typical form for all candidates. That way we could discuss here in a much more qualified way and make a statement about these candidates. Also, I think it's very ugly that certain names were mentioned here, mentioning the health condition of these people, which is also wrong. It is okay for this assembly, as the highest authority (and to clarify that this is the highest authority of government, not just a legislative body), to discuss these people, but we should also get quality information about them. That shouldn't have been done on television, because I think that television broadcast has put many people in a very awkward situation. Most of our colleagues in the judiciary are politically undetermined, and I think it's the real source, just those quality people who need to run the judiciary, among those people who are politically undetermined. The position of the Serbian Unity Party is that, because these proposals are this unskilled and unqualityly presented to this assembly, we will refrain from voting. However, I think we should apologize to those colleagues who deserve it, and we won't give them our vote, and to those who deserve it, and we haven't had a chance to plead with them about their quality and their candidacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12159	The word has a People's MP Branko Pavlovic, and the next one registered for the discussion is MP Zoran Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the floor, although I have already participated in this debate, only because Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic's candidacy as President of the Higher Economic Court has been challenged. I wouldn't normally answer if it hadn't happened. We had quite a heated discussion, but one thing in all was doubtless. It is that Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic is a top expert. That was absolutely not challenged by anyone, nor by anyone who sought an individual statement regarding its place as President of the High Court of Commerce. There's a question of how there are some kind of procedural defects. Mr Jovanovic came up with a constructive proposal for the Committee on Justice to consider it and you will have the position and explanation of the Justice Committee before joining the vote, and I am just telling you that the Committee has remained on its proposal. So we've discussed and there's no procedural interference with her being president of the High Court of Commerce. I'm very glad that we are now approaching the appointment of one very important function for the entire system of justice. This was to be done much earlier, of course, in February of the month, when we returned on the same basis to Mrs Leposava Karamarkovic and elected Serbia's Supreme Court. It's a shame we didn't do it then. I apologize on my own behalf to Mrs Jelisavetti Vasilic, but it is a good opportunity to do so now, with delay, to do so. It's quite justified here in the previous debate that if we can be resented by voters, then first of all, it's one feeling that we're working too slowly and we're a little bit hesitant. I'm talking about majority. I am not talking, of course, about the whole parliament, but about the coalition that has the majority in this House. The hesitation that a candidate who is indisputable, at this point, is the best possible solution, and for the president of the court, it would just be hesitant and I don't think we can and can't send that message to the citizens of Serbia. Definitely, in the judiciary, perhaps in the economic judiciary more severe than in other areas, we have problems, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, we have an exceptional person, so the message would be, when it crosses - that it can't be president of the Higher Court of Commerce, to go into solving all these accumulated problems, in fact, that we don't want to. In that sense, the responsibility of all those who would refrain from voting or voting against, and within the framework of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, of course I am not talking about the opposition, would be very large. At this point, it is important that the entire professional and overall public know whether the decision on whether Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic will be the President of the Higher Economic Court, only this is disputed, will be in the hands of the Democratic Party, exclusively in the hands of the Democratic Party. For there to be no dilemma, only the Democratic Party can challenge this proposal. If they support it, and we've seen no reason not to do it, we'll get the President of the High Court of Commerce as we deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12161	The word has been sent to the people by Zoran Novakovic. The next is MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12162	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, I am very dissatisfied with the proposed agenda and during this extraordinary session, due to my obvious illegality in proposing and mixed and confusing situations. That is why I will talk about the principle and elemental reasons for the fundamental reform of the judiciary, i.e. the way in which candidates for functions in courts and public prosecutors are elected. Among the many reasons for or against the choice of proposed candidates in the judiciary, I have defined myself for two - moral reasons and legal reasons. Moral reasons and legal reasons only for applying candidates, i.e. for applying for elections, the second same reasons for proposing candidates, i.e. those who propose and, thirdly, the same reasons, moral and legal reasons for those who choose candidates for these high functions in the judiciary and public prosecutors. Those reasons shall either be intertwined or disfellowshipped. For those first, for those who run, moral reasons are, above all, important. For these others, i.e. For those who suggest, responsibility is even greater. There are very important moral and legal reasons for those who propose to know who they propose and to answer publicly. For the third, for those who choose, i.e. For us, the most important legal reasons are whether the procedure for selecting judges and functions in public prosecutors is legal, legal and legitimate, whether the laws in the judiciary are respected. I mean existing laws. For the sake of the truth and knowledge of our citizens of voters about what proposals, i.e. candidates for judicial and public prosecutorial functions, I will give several examples. Of course, I won't mention names for my own principled reasons. For example, a candidate for Deputy Public Prosecutor in Mionica passed a judicial exam in 2000, has had three years of employment and has worked on the work of an intern of the district attorney in Valjevo, and has been an expert associate in the same prosecutor's office since January this year. So he's been working for eight months on a professional job. The second example is a candidate for deputy municipal public prosecutor in Sremska Mitrovica, has a total of three years of work, working on the work of trainees at the district public prosecutor's office in Sremska Mitrovica, as it is written here. Obviously, it's about young people, but you'll have to admit, without experience in working on such very responsible duties. Without intending to disqualify or disqualify anyone, it is up to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to judge whether youth alone is the primary criterion. If we are already talking about the criteria of youth, including the example set by a lot of MPs, and it is about the election, the candidate for the District Court in Subotica, and also the candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Subotica, who we have learned is 64 years old and 39 years old, not to enter the criteria of morality or legality, which I have stated, namely whether this candidate is another national or has dual citizenship. About the length of study and the average grades, which has been said here, the candidate for judicial functions, I have no comment, because my criteria for selecting candidates are unclear. Whether it was about expertise, abilities, moral virtues, experience, etc., our citizens could easily learn from the public publication of at least this information, which was received by Members of the Committee on Justice and Administration. Are these candidates necessary experts for an independent judiciary, judge for yourself. But if there were legal procedures, we made sure, they didn't. Even some MPs, aware that in this case, there is not so much of the law to be applied, that I am not talking about legalism and legitimacy in our proposal and selection. If most MPs agree that such a proposal for judges and prosecutors is not good, without applying future law on courts, then why this choice? It is necessary to withdraw the proposals, speed up the adoption of a new law on courts and to legally elect judges and prosecutors, according to built and widely accepted criteria. The second proposal I can make is a legitimate variant. It is the adoption of a new constitution, these are new elections, a new constitutional court, a new republican public prosecutor, a new law and the right choice of judges in courts. In this way, because of the legal galamitias and its kind of constitutional-law scandal over the legitimacy of the proposal by the authorised perpetrator of the duties of the republican public prosecutor, MP Mr Hiber, in my opinion, should, even for moral reasons, resign as chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12163	There's a word from the People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12164	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after almost three days of debate on this agenda, at the end of this debate, where man was deeply convinced that one unity and the determination of the majority coalition, when it came to the management and implementation of human resources policy within DOS, and at the level of choice or choice of judicial holders, proved and surfaced to the true truth. It is true that the staff policy at DOS level or within DOS frameworks - which it implements, and whose most important decisions it makes, I suppose, the DOS presidency, and the achievement of those decisions are tasked with implementing committees and the majority of them in this assembly - are incinerated by the crisis of decisions relating to the appointment of individual judges or holders of other functions in the judiciary, which has proved to be the moment when the appetites within the DOS coalition are not satisfied, regardless of what you have, more successfully or unsuccessfully, tried to convince us of the determination and regularity of the decisions made by the government, and especially in the correctness of the decisions made by the parent committees. Your efforts and insistence were to convince the opposition, especially us Serbian radicals, that in no case were we right when we made objections to individuals or individual solutions. You've fallen into your own trap, you've trapped yourself, you've declared to this speaker and shown to the public the way in which this personnel policy is being implemented. It is carried out in such a way that at the time that one part of the DOS coalition is not satisfied, it comes out here, in the already set order of the speaker's application, that it is made clear to the coalition partner of the other party that everything is in their hands, that any decision, which would mean acceleration, especially reforms in the judiciary, depends only on that coalition partner. And then where is your previous oath not to involve politics, especially not to conduct party staff policies, in terms of -- not necessarily or not to be a member of every candidate who is proposed to be in office. The people had a chance to see: it is easy for you, gentlemen, to convince this assembly sometimes, because you have a majority, you may go with your hand to convince the opposition, so that you physically remove some MPs, especially Serbian radicals, but it is difficult for the public, after this debate today, to convince or convince that you had fair intentions. There are honest and honest people among you, and they're mostly the moment when it comes to some professional commitment, their moral, personal principles, where they can't go below some minimum, but, as people, they have to go out for this pay phone, that because of professionality, because of morality, they say what the point is. That was the case earlier, when a member of the Democratic Party came out and said, "Mr Pajtic, which is why the DSS candidate, or the candidate on whom the DSS so insists, cannot be elected or appointed to this post. He gave you the law, but what it means to you, you didn't take a break to make a deal. According to the chairman's behaviour, I thought a compromise had been reached after all, but as soon as the discussion took place, I saw in the order of the reported, that he was involved in one, too, if nothing else, then the agreed staff policy, which is now taking place during today's session. The DSS MPs came out and clearly told the public of Serbia who it depends on and what this Serbia depends on. At this point, of course, depends on the election of the president of the High Court of Commerce in Belgrade. But the people are written enough to recognize that the fate of each of us depends on the goodwill of one party or another within the DOS. The truth is, it should be said that there are colleagues who are not members of these two biggest parties, who come out of the highest moral initiatives, who tell the truth, but who forget to point out that this is against the law. But why do you need the law? You gentlemen don't need the law. You don't need the law, you don't need the Constitution. You swear to change the Constitution, and you can't wait or you'd like to wait until this constitution changes. This one suits you the most. When you can't arrange for the appointment of the President of the Municipal Courts, who will be, what personality, how will you deal with the change of the Constitution? After all, who will you trade with, gentlemen? Well, you see, as much as Milo Djukanovic respects you, he respects one fun show on Pink TV more than you and your representatives. Gentlemen, you have to be serious, this is about people's fates, not just those you've replaced. It is normal and it is understandable, when it comes to the change of government, that by implementing its human policy, it also brings personal changes to individual authorities, in this particular case, changes in the judiciary. Therefore, it is also the responsibility of the authorities for their work, but it is a little unusual, unusual that all the objections made by the SRS, with the names and last names of the proposed candidates, where the evidence is presented, the arguments that they were under trial, you simply close your eyes, you do not want to think about it. What would it cost you, gentlemen, to say, okay, these two or three candidates have been challenged, let's put it off for some next session, so the world won't fail. Two or three candidates to postpone for the next session, nothing tragic. But you won't, because the proposal comes from the ranks of the SRS, even in those drastic cases, when elected or appointed by the President of the Municipal or District Court in Subotica. You are not responding to all the arguments, where every decent man sitting in this congregation should wonder what kind of decision that makes. He makes a decision that will benefit one individual, who manipulates not only the DOS majority, but also manipulates his people, the national minority they belong to. Well, the best and most impressive one speaks exactly the man who belongs to that national minority, and brings out the real truth. And not only was he wrong about the law, about the Constitution of this state, by committing no crime, by performing different functions in the previous period, and by not being sanctioned by the previous regime, but also in this period by not jeopardising the leading human policy, gentlemen, only those living in Subotica, this has far more far-reaching consequences. Joseph Kasa, aware of the fact that constitutional changes will not lead to the transfer of judicial authority to the Vojvodina Assembly, that is, the province of Vojvodina, is now changing and controlling the judicial authority in Vojvodina. For some, it's a little strange, but the whole story of Vojvodina's autonomy has the ultimate goal of achieving the autonomy that Joseph Kasa imagined in his head -- it's personal, ethnic autonomy, although here many government members, headed by the Prime Minister, have said they are against that kind of autonomy. (President: Stick to the topic. The autonomy of the Vojvodina is not on the agenda. But she's tightly tied up. You know, you need a little more time to figure it out. You're a little bit in the mixer about the order of speakers, so you're not really on the subject. But as soon as the Serbian Prime Minister set foot on the ground of Vojvodina, he immediately said - you will have autonomy. He didn't tell the majority people, he meant Joseph Kass. (President: Time. Gentlemen, take care. Think carefully before voting on individual solutions. There are a lot of decent people here that you've proposed. For their sake, don't make a mistake, they'll burden you and those honest and highly professional people you should appoint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12165	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and after him, MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12166	Ladies and gentlemen, if it weren't for such an important segment of society as the judiciary, and it wasn't for such a serious subject, what choice of judicial and public prosecutorial officials would be called a complete procedure for proposing. However, for the simple reason that many people are interested and as far as the fates of a large number of people are concerned, we will not call it ridiculous. Anyway, it's confusing and chaotic. I'll list a few arguments in favor of that. The public will judge, judge and see what's going on. In these three days, there have been a lot of speeches on this subject, a lot of arguments, a lot of counter arguments. I'll have a few of them as apostrophe, so we can understand them better. Representatives of the majority in parliament have repeatedly mentioned the current law as an obstacle to the election, i.e. the legal choice of legal holders of judicial functions. Mr. Minister is here, it's been more than eight months since the government's election. It's quite enough time to pass a new law, if the existing one isn't good. Why didn't the Minister and the Ministry do it? In eight months, the Department of Justice has passed only a law on the amnesty of Cypriot prisoners, and nothing more. It is therefore declassified to talk about this obstacle to better performance of this job. (President: Please be quiet.) ) Second, from June 29 to the day of today, so nearly three months, a pile of material arrived, a huge amount of material, with suggestions for judges and public prosecutors. Several times the proposals were withdrawn and delivered a new one, so they were withdrawn, etc. At this very moment, the latest proposals have been shared, which means that the process has not yet been completed. It'll probably take the rest of this session. That's what it's all about, is the inconclusive approach of the motionor to this business, the inconclusiveness that has great consequences. A large number of people in this country are interested in this topic. A large number of people are looking forward to the outcome of this session. A large number of people have been on some lists since 29 June. I find it inconclusive, by the promoter, that such a large number of people are kept in suspense and play with their fates. It is incomprehensible that every five days or daily suggestions change. I don't know what that suggests to change the proposal after just one day of the proposal. Whether this is the very quality of the proposed candidate or whether it is the recommendations of some local DOS politburo who actively participate in proposing public prosecutor and judicial functions. The third argument I want to make here is the fact that the law has been broken in proposing candidates. Namely, a large number of candidates for the presidents of municipal and district courts are people who are not judges of the same courts at the moment, and some of them have never been judges. The law makes it clear that a candidate from the judge is elected for the President of the Court. A large number of people who are here today are elected both for the judge and for the President of the Court. I think it's a flagrant violation of the law and it can't and can't go like that. I don't think there's any question that today, if most people want to, they'll be elected judges, and in the next session, in seven or ten days, the same people will be elected presidents. Then that would be formally fine. So there wouldn't be any objections like mine. The fourth thing, July 9th, came the draft decision on the termination of the post of public prosecutor. Among the motions for resolution are Staniša Ivanovic, Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic and V.D. a republican public prosecutor. He's out of office to meet his retirement conditions. That was July 9th. The Justice Committee withdraws this proposal on September 12th, without any explanation. On the same day, on 12 September, the Committee for Justice and Administration submitted a new proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the public prosecutor and again on the list the name Staniša Ivanovic, with the same functions as in the previous proposal - Deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor and V.D. a republican public prosecutor. That was September 12th. Just five days later, on September 17th, there is a change of the previous proposal, which deletes the words "v.d. a republican public prosecutor." Therefore, Mr. Ivanovic was V.D. on September 12th. a republican public prosecutor, and on 17 September he was not. To remind the public and you here, during that period we had no session that could relieve the gentleman concerned of this function. I ask the president of the Committee, and if he is not here, then someone who replaces him or who is in charge of answering - how was Mr. Ivanovic relieved? Here is a new question - who is Mr Dragomir Nedic and who has put him in office V.d. a republican public prosecutor? Two days ago there was controversy about this and the Committee adopted an opinion divided by MPs, in which it was clearly said that Mr Ivanovic was elected in accordance with the law, i.e. set up for V.D. a republican public prosecutor. Also, in that opinion is the way that this function ends. Since, apparently, Mr. Ivanovic was not resolved in this assembly, and there was no other case for his resolution, or termination of office, then it was disputed how Mr. Nedic became V.D. a republican public prosecutor. Mr. Ivanovic is still a legal performer of the duties of the republican public prosecutor, which means Mr. Nedic is illegal, illegal, and I suggest that all proposals delivered by Mr. Nedic be withdrawn from the procedure because they are not legitimate, or legal. I also propose to the Assembly not to declare proposals related to Slobodan Vučetic and the proposal for Radovan Coguric. These two proposals cannot be considered at this session because they are not on the agenda. They are not on the agenda for the simple reason that we have in the agenda a point called - a decision on the resolution and selection of judicial holders, and the two proposals are not a resolution or choice of judicial function holders. Therefore, I cannot stand in this sitting today as part of the agenda, and I ask the Assembly to declare it. So, just to recap, I ask the Assembly's statement to remove all proposals from Mr Nedic's agenda as illegal, because he is not a legal performer of the duties of the republic's public prosecutor and that these two acts on Mr Vučetic and Mr Coguric are also removed from the agenda, or that we do not declare ourselves to them because they cannot be part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12167	The word has been made by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. There's a drop in the O.R. How it can be declared by the congregation, it cannot be done at regular sessions, let alone in the extraordinary session, and you know it very well. A proposal to take off the agenda? Everything that's been challenged, individually, and what's not, it's going to be in the package. I guess you know how it works. Here you go, and I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12168	Dear Presidency, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would like a few of my personal comments on a few issues that have been dominated these days by the assembly debate on the bearers... (President: Please listen to us, the last registered speaker. )......................................................................................................... judicial functions. The first group of questions or decisions proposed to us concerns the annulment of decisions of the National Assembly from the previous appeal and are related to the resolution of a judge of the Constitutional Court and a Supreme Court judge. Nothing personal, I believe that these decisions are wrong, first of all from the relationship to the Constitution, so formally-legal. I do not dispute the right of the majority in this assembly to build and have a relationship with past events, but a fiercely slow way in which most have decided to change the past. I just don't think the way he's chosen is adequate and not in accordance with the Constitution. Namely, in the system of division of the authority recorded in our Constitution, in the division of its own legislative, executive and judicial powers, it is known that which authority controls one another. Parliament has control over the work of the government, and control of the acts of Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12169	I'm asking for peace in the O.R., people, let's hear from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12170	The control of acts of parliament has a judiciary, i.e. a constitutional judiciary. I think that even this time, if anything was desired, it was necessary to go that way, to control the general acts of the Assembly, the constitutional judiciary, and to control individual acts in the administrative dispute, the Supreme Court. If you wanted to correct some injustice, then you should have gone that way. However, it is symptomatic that the ruling coalition at this session, as well as in each one so far, is turning the past again with one question or more questions. In a political sense, I also consider it an expression of the authority's inability to provide answers to today's difficult issues and uncertain tomorrow's. Often and too often it reaches for the past. As for the second group of questions I'd like to say a few words about, it refers to the resolution of judicial officials. That's where I'd make two differences. The first group is those who go on a personal request, who retire and I want those carriers, who were doing this honorable job by yesterday and who will be formally relieved after this session, to express my personal gratitude for the contribution they gave to the Serbian judiciary. As for those other groups of motions for the resolution of holders of functions before the end of the term of office they are elected, we will be against it because we believe that the way it was carried out, or proposed by the Committee, and it is likely to be adopted by the majority, is not in accordance with the law. I don't think many of these court presidents deserve to be found in a basket or covered by one flossula that they are the sole culprits of the catastrophic state and the lack of urgency in the judiciary. Many of them have spent their entire lives very honorably and responsibly installing themselves and have earned this authority or any other authority to part with a little more dignity than it seems. As far as the election of new judicial officials is concerned, 70 candidates for the presidents of the general court of jurisdiction have been proposed here. We will not support these solutions, not because we believe that these are all bad proposals, far from that, but above all we are aware that with 37 MPs, as many of us as there are in parliament, and we have not been in a position to actively participate in their proposal, so we do not have the right to participate actively in the decision-making process, so we will most likely be restrained about it. There is another fact: out of the 70 judges of the president of the general court, who will likely be elected to this honorable place today, as many as 30 are not from that court. I think it's an unfairly high percentage and he's talking about two things. The first and main thing is that in these 30 courts there are several hundreds of judges, and if we have told this speaker, and by the representatives of the ruling coalition, that the office of the president is the judiciary, the judiciary, then I really don't see a reason why we can't put our trust in a few hundred existing judges who work in these 30 courts, who are going to have lawyers, businesses and other courts, and they haven't worked in those courts until yesterday. I don't think that's acceptable. On the legitimacy of the proposal by the public prosecutor's official, I would not fully agree with the argument of the respected counterpart Pavlovic. It is true that life has brought about one situation that the law has not solved, it is true that there are legal gaps, but in such situations I am always inclined to resort to the belief that any system is better than the absence of the system, which would have happened if Serbia had no perpetrator of the duties of the republican public prosecutor. Otherwise, there's no doubt about who's responsible for this situation, and I want to say it. I think it is the sole responsibility of the DOS, the ruling coalition, because at the time of the transitional government, it accepted the SPO's request to request and receive the resignation of the then republican public prosecutor, although parliament was disbanded.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12171	I'm asking for peace in the O.R., please be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12172	And a year of it has failed as the ruling coalition to agree on who will be the new republican public prosecutor. It's in the gentlest of words the shame and shame of this government. That's why all these disputes over the legitimacy and legality of the decisions we're discussing today. I'd like to express my personal position, so as a socialist, and three reasons why we're not for this candidacy. The first is related to the fact that we have neither participated in proposing this candidate and that as an opposition, we should in principle fight the proposal proposed by the government. Secondly, Parliament's previous meeting, in which the SPS played a dominant role or majority during the seventh month of last year, resolved that candidate for reasons that I will not point out to this occasion, trying to respect what we were talking about in privacy and circumstances that are not for exporting, which we may not even need to present behind this speaker. The third and final principled reason, and the main or most difficult reason, that at several sessions on the Committee of Justice we convinced ourselves that many of the disputed matters were related to Mrs Vasilic's candidacy, from her application to the competition, to the procedure which was led also by the Committee for Justice to the Assembly. As far as I'm aware, even the Ministry of Justice in the final phase of this process has given up its opinion on this candidacy. We Socialists have a principled position, which applies not only to Mrs Vasilic, but to all holders of functions that are on the Committee on Justice and for this speaker...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12173	Excuse me, Mr. Nikolic, gentlemen of the Parliament, should I interrupt the session or shall I hear from you? Please, for a little peace in the O.R., it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12174	So, let me repeat, we have a principled position which is one for all candidates, whose candidacy is disputed for personal or procedural reasons, that nothing like Parliament will be lost if all these circumstances and facts, which have been presented by the MPs, in a brief and effective procedure for the next few days are checked and that at the next session the Assembly comes out with crystal clear views. And finally, my wish and most of it is here in the Assembly, I believe, that once in this assembly we start to talk openly about the essential reasons for the situation in the judiciary. To discuss improving the material position of the judiciary, improving the working conditions, as it is clear to all of us that, without economic independence, the judge does not have a fundamentally independent position of the judiciary. It's not like that now. And in the end, quite in the end, since I will no longer have the chance to participate in the debate... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... I would like to congratulate all those holders of judicial functions who will be elected by the majority at today's session and to wish to perform their duties in accordance with the Constitution and the law and oath they will take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12175	The People's Messenger is Ispanovich Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be brief, so I'd like you to listen to me. I have to express my deep dissatisfaction with today's session of the Committee on Justice taking down candidate Korhec Tamash from Subotica, candidate for the President of the District Court in Subotica, Mr Nikolic. I'm not going to discuss yesterday, I'm not going down to that level, I have to say it's about a candidate who's a doctor of science, a lawyer who speaks four languages and meets all the conditions for a choice for judges and president of the court in Subotica. I must also say that he was the judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia and was targeted when Milosevic cleared the judiciary of unsuitable candidates in 1992. There was no other reason. Today, after reviewing it again, Mr Mircic said best today: in Subotica, the President of the District Court cannot be Hungarian. I take that as a message. The Hungarians will accept it, but they will never admit it. Such a way of working simply, on behalf of the duchy Hungarians, I do not accept. There's no other reason here. The candidate's expertise is not disputed, he meets all the conditions under the law, but apparently I'm not surprised that radicals don't accept being Mr. Korhec the President of the District Court in Subotica. I'm not surprised at the socialists either. I'm surprised at some of the other parties in DOS. In Subotica, the District Court has never, since 1945, been the president of the District Court of Hungary. No wonder during communism, no wonder during Milosevic's regime, but it's strange today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12177	We've got a lot of replicas. You'll get a word. I just don't know on what basis, Rules of Procedure, replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12178	Dear MPs, the previous speaker mentioned the SPS in the context, if I understand its presentation well, and I call for Articles 98 and 99, that Serbian Socialists have imputed certain types of nationalism in a debate conducted these days. The stenogram shows that not once, not a moment at all, any SPS MP is in discussions on the appointment of judges and prosecutors using any term that came out of the good taste and debate on the subject. I ask that this be made known and that this is the President's statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12179	I don't know what I have to say. Should I have made a warning about making insults to the SPS parliamentary group? Okay. It's a small matter of interpretation and broader political debate. According to the Rules of Procedure? I also feel that this is a replica without being a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12180	Dear colleagues, members of 99 were severely injured, attitudes 1 and 2. He says, "The People's Messengers are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly," and another, "The People's Messengers are obliged to address one another with respect." What we've heard from Mr. Ispanovich does not belong to this article 99. It does not belong to Article 99 because it is many false things and otherwise because it offends the dignity of the congregation, for it is false. No one in the debate, nor did I say that the President of the District Court can be Hungarian. It may be Mr. Mircic, but you're just like one passant (by the way) said it. So it's not a problem, it's a problem in exchange for thesis. In time, Mr. Ispanovich, in DZVM, we've been thinking about who's going to politicize here, and over there on the other side of the border to transfer capital and we're talking about it. On the other hand, we differed over who would be honest and go out to those poor little ones of yours, and you spoke for all the Hungarians. Not on behalf of all Hungarians. You can only be in the name of the Alliance of Duke Hungarians, and that's one of the parties. So, whether it was a lapus, it probably is, but intentional and therefore, you have to use the facts completely the way it's supposed to be. I also said in the debate that it's not a reason that it can't, but maybe it doesn't. Very precise and no one has said that, not even the Ministry of Law can, but perhaps not, Mr. Ispanovich. It's just that there's a conflict about you all having more or less dual citizenships, and I said that, so you'll get out when you think and how you want. You said on the board today that it was necessary to prove whether he had dual citizenship. Let's turn around, can he, under moral, material and criminal responsibility, say he doesn't have dual citizenship? Can you say you don't? The question is, whether one of the two hundred and fifty national sovereignty has dual subjection or no double subjection. Don't talk about what Mr. Milosevic is, what happened, and you were all allies of Mr. Milosevic. Who had a vice president on the executive board in Subotica from the Socialist Party of Serbia: me or Mr Kasa? Don't do that, don't trick me. It's not about national issues, it's about principle issues, what can't two-facedness in politics always go through? Because you think you're the best coalition partner of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the most important and best coalition partner of DOS, where you plant democratic powers on wheels and draw them when they can't control everything and always control it, and they trust you as citizens who think they're honest. That, Mr. Ispanovich, is the essence of the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12181	Replica, Mr. Nikolic, and Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had little to do with the Rules of Procedure to challenge this replica to Mr. Ispanovich's claim that Judge Korhec is from Subotica, and I said from Segedin and then he said - Mr. Nikolic from Subotica - and that's my basis for replication, Mr. President. Obviously, you weren't following how I got that basis. In fact, I've been meeting with these things for nine years now, how long I've been an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Whenever the party representative Agošton Andras or Kasa Joseph came out, he said, "This is what the Hungarian people will be able to appreciate," this is what the Hungarian people will remember, this is what the Hungarian people will react to. What's this all about, Mr. Ispanovich? Will the Serbian people react to the 50 judges in question? Aren't we exactly the same? Why are you putting a disputed judge, who is a Hungarian citizen, in the Hungarian people living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Does all Hungarians have dual citizenship, or is it just the elite that has dual citizenship? Did all Hungarians enjoy the privileges of the former regime or only the elite and its representatives, led by today's Deputy Prime Minister, who we have proved to be a criminal in the past unnatural, dictatorial regime? Is it all true or isn't it? Did we prove to you how many lands he bought, worth billions of marks? Have we proven to you how many houses in the center of Subotica he alienated and donated to his family? The Socialist Party of Serbia was wrong to rule the coalition with those in certain parts of Serbia. With such a political party, no one in Serbia should make coalitions, even if he has to win, because after two or three months, you put out a coalition bill, and your accounts are terrible. Either we report you to Budapest now to persecute the Hungarian national minority or that man will be a judge in Subotica, or he will be this or he will be that. No Serbian radical has ever thought, nor will he say anywhere that Hungary can't be a judge. That's what you just said about Serbian radicals. You won't hear that from us. We want to say that Korhec will not be a judge, he doesn't deserve to be a judge, he can't be a judge and he won't be a judge, if he has any sense in this room, but no Hungarian can be a judge, that a Muslim can't be a judge, that an Albanian can't, that Slovak, that Russian, when did a Serbian radical say that? But we're just checking whether a man can be a man, as a judge, as an expert, as a moral person to be a judge or not, and we're not talking about whether he belongs to a nation or a national minority. If you are now not supported by those who are blowing up the same Western pumpkin as you, then think carefully about what you are even looking for in Serbia's political life.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12183	Replica, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12184	Dear fellow Ispanovich, the worst, most primitive, lowest form and manner of discussion is when lies are presented. You went out for this pay phone, you told such a lie, you put some words in my mouth, and you have solid proof, a stenogram, fellow MPs who listened. Not only me, but literally none of the only Serbian radicals in all this time of parliamentaryism in Serbia have made any criticism, especially criticism or suggestion of this kind, as you have alluded to members of any national minority. We're getting tired of explaining it to you, we're justifying it to you. It would be better for you to personally justify yourselves to members of your national minority. In you, the sign of equality between the rights of individuals of the national minority is equal to the rights of a man who is a candidate for the President of the District Court and is a citizen of another state. With you is a sign of equality between the material, your interests and Cass's interests, and the national interests of the Hungarian national minority. With you, it is a sign of the equality of economic autonomy of an area in Serbia called Vojvodina, with your economic independence and with your economic situation. You can't plant any more. Don't call any more Serbian radicals. Because you have bad experience, you personally and your party colleagues with the previous regime, explain to your countrymen what's causing it. You've been very loyal, the servant of Slobodan Milosevic. Whatever function you were in, you ran, whether through Mihalj Kertes or through someone who is near Milosevic, to reach Milosevic, while ignoring the interests of your national minority and knocking on the wrong door. You've been knocking for a long time, but it's no wonder. How you do this job wrong, how you mismanage and politics, not only your own parties, but also a policy that should protect the national interests of the Hungarian national minority. That's why a growing number and your countrymen are turning their backs on you. The best evidence is the daily advertising of the intellectuals of the Hungarian national minority. Read it. If you don't have a mirror, you have a newspaper. And today's newspaper is writing about you personally. The next time you go out to this pay phone, the least you have to do is apologize to the Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12185	There is a word from the People's MP Bozidar Vujic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12186	I point out the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 99, Article 2. That article states that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. I asked you, Mr. President, for a replica of Mr. Istvan Ispanovich's presentation, which said that some MPs in tonight's presentation were in their speech on the ground floor. I think you've figured that out. I think it was about my presentation tonight and, based on that, I'm asking that I get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12187	You yourself, without mentioning the name, without mentioning the function, discover that you spoke on the ground floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12188	I'm saying it's an insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12189	We're wasting a lot of time. Indeed, it is pointless in this way to interpret the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12190	Mr. Ispanovich and Mr. Biachi were present yesterday when I exhibited. They had the opportunity to replicate in case I really spoke on the ground level. They didn't replicate my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12191	Go ahead, challenge your speaking on the ground level, and speak on a higher level.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12192	That's what I'm trying to explain. It's really an insult from Mr. Ispanovich. He had a chance to replicate yesterday. He and Mr. Biachi were present. Since they didn't answer the word, I'm not saying they agreed to my presentation, I can't say that, because they're members of the Duke Hungarian Union. My discussion yesterday was focused -- I believe everyone realized which way it was going -- on an independent judiciary. Since Mr Ceda Jovanovic repeatedly sought evidence yesterday for a pay phone that representatives of political parties who are now participating in power, more specifically in the DOS, are not proposed and do not all figure on these lists of judicial officials. One of these evidences was Mr. Tamash Korhec. You know that too. Mr. Tamash Korhec is in their internal nomenclature and the hierarchy of power in the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians among the first ten members. So much for an independent judiciary. I think I said that yesterday. If it's a ground floor speech, I don't think it makes sense by Mr. Ispanovich. Yesterday, indeed, they had the opportunity to say that. I was talking about Mr. Tamash Korhec, not his professional qualities, but his age, that he was retired. I ask Mr. Ispanovich to withdraw his words. I know it's his mission, which he received from the Grand Duchy of Hungarians, to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12193	Reporting for a word on behalf of the parliamentary group, then on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12194	Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, members of the government, before I speak about the judiciary, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to say something about the words that were just heard from this pay phone, and they are related to the SPS. For the past ten years, we, as a party in power, have been on the line with some of which are still in opposition today, and some are in DOS. Believe me, there were things back then, and there are now, which we were carrying and what were burdens for the coalition. But we need to know that we've been guided by state, national reasons and that they've always been ahead of party reasons. We're not ashamed of it. We don't want to talk about any coalition or any partner in a negative context. Now I'd like to say something about a subject that's on the agenda of the Assembly. Over the past three days, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia seem to have made a very argumentative and convincing statement and proved that the situation in Serbia's judiciary was bad, that it was also bad when it was resolved by judicial officials and that it did not work well during the candidacy process. It is interesting and should be mentioned that by the congregation majority there was a different response to our argument. Members of the Democratic Party have, as a rule, acted to defend the government, contesting the influence of the executive authority on the work of the judicial authorities. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs spoke, taking care of the image and reputation of the Serbian Parliament in public. Both have the same goal. Both are responsible for the state of justice of Serbia. Both participated and participated both in the proposal and in the run. Today, the congregation will vote in favour of the proposed candidates. Thus, both are responsible for what the Assembly will vote for, that is, what the work of the Serbian judiciary does. Our assessment is that the situation in the judiciary is bad. Why? It's bad for both modes and working conditions, as well as for the personnel who work there. Why bad? Bad for the reason that in the past nine months, politics has prevailed over the profession. DOS MPs prevailed over professionalism. He has overcome the DOS and the party criteria in relation to the need to build an impartial and autonomous judiciary. The situation is bad because there is a great influence of the executive authority. Unfortunately, the prime minister and prime minister announces trials, prejudges court decisions, and statements on the existence of evidence against suspects or defendants. The situation is bad because the judiciary is ineffective, unsupervised, sometimes very biased. In public, in the media, I know someone will say it has nothing to do with the judiciary, but man can't help but notice that first in public the arrest is announced, first in public the content of criminal charges, and then the judicial authorities come into the scene, of course by the already described scenario. Some criminal proceedings, as a rule against individuals from the Socialist Party of Serbia, take place indefinitely. Apparently, in the meantime, the defendant finds something, so the charges are extended. The main reason is that a man stays in prison as long as possible and, of course, remains the impression of guilt. The situation is obviously also difficult because of the difficult material position. The government has done nothing in this respect to improve the material position, despite the promise it made. The condition is also bad because of the way the frames are proposed. In recent days, we have been objected multiple times about the proposal, about the candidacy, about the candidates who have been proposed, arguing that all of this is a fruit of professional approach. And of course, arguing at the same time that in the past, the SPS has proposed only those personnel who were party members. That, of course, is not true and I have denied it. Yesterday, in connection with the presentation of a fellow MP, I received a letter, with a statement (the letter is brief and I will gladly read it) as it was done and did the staffing in the judiciary. Maybe my colleagues will be interesting. "The judges and prosecutors from Sainta have been removed, and they were not members of the SPS. The newly appointed members are members of the Democratic Party or the DSS. "I will not mention names, I can leave it to colleagues if he is interested, but the president of the court, who is not a member of the SPS, has been removed. A municipal public prosecutor, who is not a member of the SPS, has been removed. So much for that. One fellow MP was correct enough to mention that the man who was changed was not a member of the SPS, and that was one correct move, but left out the other part of the quote, which was also denied in the letter of the man who had been removed, which is that he was a member of the electoral commission, i.e. the secretary of the election commission. It's about Nis, and the man says it's incorrect, which is easy to check, because it's almost all MPs, and the opposition, and the Nis position, known in 1996 that he wasn't in any election commission that conducted federal and local elections. After all, the composition of these commissions was published in the official messengers. (Employer from the O.R.: Was he a member of the SPS? ). It's not. He denied the man in the letter, and one of your MPs denied it. We received a letter from our colleague from Knjaževec, as a parliamentary group, saying: "In light of the knowledge of the election of the President of the Municipal Court in Knjaževec, without consultation of the College of the Municipal Court and the candidate who has not performed his duties, the Faculty of the Municipal Court in Knjaževec is expressing a protest. "It says by itself how it was proposed. Yesterday, it seems very argumentative to me, I was talking about candidates who were proposed. I don't want to mention it, but there are details that in themselves give a complete picture of the running. We had an opinion from the Department of Justice, which was withdrawing an opinion on a candidate for the President of the Court, who did not even compete. We have a candidate who is still the subject of our conversation today, and the Assembly is going to decide, who hasn't even competed, so think for yourself what that can mean. If by the assembly majority a candidate is challenged, then the rule is that the procedural reasons are pursued, and of course, it is said that he cannot be proposed for the president of the court because he is not a judge, but there are as many as 29 candidates for the presidents of the court, who should be elected first as judges. The personal and professional conscience and honor of defending certain candidates are mentioned, but unfortunately none of them, the people who performed in this way and defended the views of their parliamentary group, did not say a word, nor blushed, nor made a statement in the newspaper, when Slobodan Milosevic was kidnapped, based on one anti-constitutional, illegal, illegal decision-making. How it can be talked about the rule of law in Serbia when the DOS decision-blocked the work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia to avoid constitutionally-judicial control of the work of the Parliament and the government. And in the end, we Socialists won't support the proposals for selecting the holders of judicial functions, because we didn't even participate in them. For some proposals, which were on the Committee and on which there are procedural and personal reasons, we will be against it. And I will repeat, as well as my colleague Zoran Nikolic, for those elected, we expect to work in accordance with the law and oath he will take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12195	Before I give my word to Mr Mamula, as a representative of the Committee, I would suggest, since we have a large number of contested proposals, that we listen to the remaining two MPs and continue to work until the end of this agenda and continue the session on Monday. It's a religious holiday tomorrow, and then we could continue on Monday. If you agree with that, then we must make a decision of the Assembly, so I would like to put this proposal to the vote. Please plead. For 81, against two, there were no abstentions, no 79, a total of 162. We're going to have to repeat the vote, actually, the proposal isn't accepted, it doesn't have a majority. Is there another proposal? He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12196	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I don't think we understand each other and that it is of common interest that such an important item of the agenda ends without interruption, therefore, to end our work in continuity, at least on this matter. Given that the proposal of the President of the Assembly was now to be recast, I propose that we conclude our session by completing this item of the agenda, and then voting on Monday's work, so we do not continue tomorrow with the next agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12197	I'm putting this motion to a vote. For 132 MPs, against 16, there were no abstentions, there were no 27 votes, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. After the end of this agenda, we will decide to continue the session, with a proposal to do so Monday. The word has a People's MP, Mr. George Mamula, representative of the Justice and Administration Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12198	You've received amendments to the motion for a decision to elect judges and president of district and municipal courts. As you have seen, it is proposed to delete the proposal for district courts in Vranja, Leskovac and Subotica, and to delete the proposal for the President of the Municipality Court in Žabari for the district court in Požarevec.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12199	I ask the MPs, if they consider the subject of the election and all that we have done these three days important, to hear in silence and full concentration the report of Mr Mamula, as Vice-President of the Committee on Justice and Administration. I'm really asking you to hear from me. These proposals have been deleted to check the observations made during the debate. This does not mean that these suggestions may not be on the agenda again after the changes have been made. Serious objections have been made. It would be even better if they were brought out earlier during the debate, not to wait for the last moment to cause some effect, as expected. As for Mr. Korhec, that's where we respected Mr. Pal Shandor's reasons. And what is foreseen by the United Nations Resolution of 1986 on the independence of the judiciary, so it will also be checked. As for the candidate for President of the Senior Court of Commerce, Mrs Jelisavete Vasilic, it was found that there were no procedural reasons for the proposal to withdraw from the procedure, most of the votes. It's a decision. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12201	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use my right and the 10 minutes I have left to end the debate in principle. I think that together, as MPs, we have spent too much time working in this room to be incapable of assessing to what extent arguments and attitudes are personal and party, and to what extent they are truly due to some greater social interest. This session of the Republic's parliament is for many things a precedent. We discussed taking away the immunity of two of our colleagues and thus inaugurated the principle that each one of us threatens and reminds. We are discussing three days of judicial reform, human resources reform, announcing, at least we as representatives of the parliamentary majority, and that legislative reform and laws that are currently in public debate. What's a step in relation to our current common and understanding and occasional consent is that this time we've decided on concrete human fates. I'm not saying that the less important laws that we reformed our society's fiscal system, but this time we talked about the name and last name, who in our opinion is capable of measuring justice in our society, and who is so unqualified. I think it would be the first great success if, at the end of this principle debate, we could say that in all of this, it was an argument that was not personal. I find it more than dangerous to challenge any argument, which here criticised the proposal of the Justice Committee or our parliamentary majority, for some personal reason. I also believe that we do not have the right to do such a thing, because using this analogy, we present ourselves as people of some personal interest, whether it is a court in Leskovac, a court in Vranj, a court in the Municipality of Žabari, a real problem to which we must find an answer with the court in Subotica or the problem we have with the Higher Commercial Court in Belgrade. One who says that there is a personal reason in this, and who points his finger at the DOS, at the SRS, at the SSJ, at the DS, at the same time, on the other hand, clearly indicates that his interest is equally personal. However, I am convinced that this time it was not so, despite some very clear explicit views that, in particular, I want to talk about DS, to the extent that they are, accusing those with such arguments. I asked DOS MPs for an argument for every criticism, an argument that shouldn't be slander and mere innuendo, but something that's due to serious, pedantic, precise work, something based on facts. The product of one such approach is the corrections that we have made in our proposal, the corrections in the case of courts in Leskovec, Vranj, in the municipality of Žabari, in Subotica. You were properly informed of this by Ambassador Mamula. We have a vote ahead of us, but in this vote we also have to take into account one principle - that this is the last time that we are as politicians, and above all, we are politicians, engaged in a job that can least and must have contact with politics. If we already know that this is the case, not accusing anyone here or those who have left us with such a procedure, but also of us who have not been able to change this procedure properly in this time that is short, because we are expected to reform the judiciary in an eight-month period, and it has not been reformed for the past 30 or 40 years, how old individual legal proposals are. We have promised a serious change and this change can be the result of only serious and concrete work, in which we must not be divided to the left and right, but we must be as we were today on the Justice Committee, or yesterday, when I am sure that the arguments that were due to the expert analysis and not the party interest have been overcome. As for specific problem examples, distancing from solutions, even though it leaves a bitter taste, does not represent disqualification for us. I think the satisfaction will already be the first next chance we can talk about and indicate whether any criticism has been justified or if some criticism has been a consequence and too strong a party or a personal interest. I think that in this debate as the most serious problem, in which some alleged higher or outside the parliamentary interests were mentioned, we had a discussion in this Parliament and at the committee's meetings on the High Court of Commerce. Although the DS raised the issue in front of MPs, which is not an expression of our bad intentions, but rather our insistence that everything be discussed openly, on the Committee on Justice, which decided on the validity of the solution, was maintained. We cannot give up our commitment, with the same thought that we are not disqualifying anyone, but we are not influenced by pressures or some interpretations, which have consequences of having a personal interest. As winners, we have come out of a time in which every party initiative and every personal engagement has been interpreted precisely by such intentions. The decision in this congregation, at least on this point, must not be motivated in such a way, nor challenged by the argument that goes in that direction. The issue of justice and justice is also too serious for us as politicians, who are so variable, to be so exclusive in this. Who is in charge of interpreting the law - are the MPs in the parliamentary benches, the expert public who is watching us now? If there's a professional public in charge, can she decide that? He can't. If we're in charge, to what extent are we competent and competent to make such big decisions? In this paradox lies the size of mistakes we will make today by voting individually for each of the proposed solutions. As for the concrete and apostrophe, first of all the Democratic Party, the case of the High Court of Commerce, not in that case, in any other future case, as it was not during our ten-year history, we will not give in to any unprincipled pressure. We will be restrained, and let the Assembly decide, interpreting your will to what extent it is in accordance with the law, to what extent it is something, which in itself is procedural, contrary to the regulations that we will change very quickly. But playing with human destiny, whether it's a candidate or an MP, is something that is unacceptable and that we are determined to oppose. Today I publicly disproved my claim yesterday, and I was obliged to do so. When a politician makes a mistake, it's a serious mistake. But when a politician makes a mistake, and in the meantime he finds out he made a mistake and ignores something like that, it's a political disaster. Whether the Business Court in Nis was a politically abused institution, following an argument that is serious and presented by the president of the court, can no longer clearly argue. I have assurances both sides. But I think this is the last chance we'll be obliged to do so. Let this serve as a great example to all those who will be able to analyse concrete shortcomings in this process of justice in Serbia during the public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12202	The word came from Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12203	Ladies and gentlemen of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's a big deal for us. We've done a lot in the past few days and in one way that wasn't relevant to the previous regime. No matter how much the existing law didn't oblige us to consult the professional public, we did it. No matter how many discussions have been held before and the objections of the professional public, MPs and citizens to the choice of judges have been ignored, we have done so. By the way, this is an indication that something different is going on in this country. Regardless of all the objections that have come from our party, and perhaps some solutions have been delayed and may not have been required to elect judges under this law, we believe that this is the beginning of a judicial system reform. When we say reform, we think that reforms are not only changes in the law, but reforms and individual solutions of individual people who need to implement these reforms. We have before us the names of candidates many will surely have objections, fictional, unimaginative, true, untrue, but that is what the Justice Committee has proposed at the moment and that is what we will plead to today. It's up to each of us to decide how to vote. The DSS will support the views of the Justice Committee and the DSS will support the position relating to the appointment for, at the moment, the highest judicial authority, and that is the President of the High Court of Commerce. Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic, a candidate for the President of the Higher Economic Court, received undivided support from the professional public. She received undivided support until yesterday of all DOS parties. She also received support on some side on the issue of expertise and honesty by the opposition, but I understand their position that they will not vote in principle for a solution proposed by the DOS, or by the Committee on Justice and Administration. I think it's more than enough for us to vote for her today. I think that's more than enough to support the reforms we're looking for and which should be faster. I think it's more than enough for an honest and professional man to make the process of provatisation, liquidation and bankruptcy, which will be in Serbia when it starts with a different way of leading the economy, make it good for the citizens of Serbia. I think that's enough, to do something good for the citizens of Serbia at this session, besides all the other solutions we're going to vote for. I think it's our obligation to the citizens of Serbia. We have a proposal from the Justice and Administration Committee. I'm not going to bid on who's going to vote, although we've heard that some will be held back, I don't think that's good, to leave such an important authority in a state without a president. I don't think that's good for the citizens, but well, responsibility will be on those who vote like that, and they will bear the responsibility that reforms won't go at the pace we planned, which some things won't go the way we planned. I call once again on all of us to be extremely responsible for rationally considering and voting on all the proposals and to do something good for the citizens of Serbia, because, besides, the systemic changes that we start here and now on the judiciary will continue at one of the next sessions and will end when certain laws are passed that regulate this area. When we are all called upon to respect the Constitution and the law, and it cannot happen overnight, it cannot happen today for tomorrow, in a month, it is a process that we have begun and we will not fail. Once again, let's not leave the citizens of Serbia without the president of that court to decide on the fate of many workers in Serbia, that we do not have new flags and new factories happening. Let us lead a responsible policy in Serbia, that responsible and professional people, who have undivided support and professional and entire party public, come to the right places.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12204	The Minister of Justice, Mr Batic, called for the word. According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12205	Mr. President, if you are authorized to take care of the respect of the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to warn you of Article 88(6), which stands, the last sentence: "The other members of the Government are given the floor when requested by the President of the National Assembly, and their exposure may take twice as long as the time specified for the presentation of the MPs." Minister Vladan Batic used his right to do so. Here, in this attitude he does not say - whenever he asks, because the whole attitude refers to the order of participants in the debate and says who, as much as he can and can speak. So, for example, it foresees the possibility that the Committee's rapporteurs can speak more repeatedly, but the government members can only explicitly say once that the duration of their speech can be longer and twice as long as the speech of the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12206	Just because we had it, that's what I wanted to call myself now. We will have a new Rules of Procedure, this is one inaccuracies in the Rules of Procedure which the National Assembly interpreted. The practice so far has been to give government representatives, along with other members of the government, a word on several occasions. Usually it was once at the beginning, and once at the end, and that's where we've had practice so far. Until we have a new Rules of Procedure, where it will be quite precise, I will continue to apply it in the way that the National Assembly interpreted it. We've had these discussions about it on several occasions. I put to the vote the objection of Parliamentarian Gordana Pop - Lazic that there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 88. For 39, against 125, there were no abstentions, there were no 12 votes, and a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept Mrs Gordana Pop - Lazic's objection. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, for all these four days, I have spoken only once for ten minutes, despite the numerous mentions of the Minister, the Ministry and so on. I felt there was no need to even replicate it because most speakers talked about themselves the most. It took four days for this debate and it would have been good if it had been focused on the subject. I think 3/4 or more of the time has been spent on other things, on a variety of pervasive remarks, on disqualifications, but, in any case, this is a significant shift compared to a time ago. Gentlemen, the National Assembly in the previous meeting chose dozens of judges, and hundreds of judges, and there was no debate about it, not a single word. It was a list of names and it was raising hands. But here it was declared what is the essence of parliamentarism, and that was more than 100 years ago said Masarik - the essence of parliamentaryism in the debate, not in the vote. Therefore, criticism could also be heard, there are also legitimate criticisms, there are well-intentioned criticisms. In my first presentation, I said that no one in the current government here wanted to carry out any kind of persecution, some kind of hack over the holders of judicial functions. Just the time of the new government and this parliament are the best confirmation for it. So, we do this job only after eight months, and the desire to carry out the right selection and to choose a professional, quality and professional public-accepted candidate, along with a proper moral integrity, has affected that this was not done immediately after the constitution of Parliament or immediately after the formation of the Government, let's say in February of the month. There was no heike, there was nothing. It's just that there's been a change in what's been done today, and that's the choice of the president of the courts and the choice of public prosecutors. None of the people were hired to spread those false news and misinformation. So we don't mind if there are arguments. I think that the Justice Committee, which has sat down several times, and I've been to most of the committee's sessions, really wanted to make the best selection, to accept reasoned objections and to withdraw for this reason individual candidates for whom the complaints were filed, who were not known at this time. It is a great contribution, simply, to the real selection within the holders of judicial functions. The proposer for the election of the president of the courts is the Justice Committee. The Proposer for Public Prosecutors is v.d. a republican public prosecutor. In this most numerous work, it means a part of Parliament is proposing and Parliament is choosing. It is also a confirmation that there is no interference by the executive authorities in the choice of judicial holders. Let me tell you something else: we strive to inauguration the free and independent judiciary. The difference with the existing legal act is that it will practically propose the judges themselves to the most competent candidates for the holders of judicial functions and judges. I have to tell you, in Europe it is not like that and often the executive power, decorated in the justice ministry or the minister of justice, is proposed by the president of the courts. In some countries that have passed the transition, even justice ministers are appointed by the presidents of the courts. Look at the parallel practice, there are many such solutions. So, I think that the Justice and Administration Committee has acted in the right way and accepted those objections, objections and criticisms that had a rational justification. In the judicial reform process we have three levels, we have three levels. One is a legal regulation. I want to tell you that from the very beginning of April, the working group dominated by just the most competent representatives of the judicial authorities, the President of the Supreme Court, the Deputy President of the Supreme Court, the President of the District Court in Belgrade, has been forming since the very beginning of April. There were also a number of prominent members of the Society of Judges, as well as a couple of professors of Law Faculty, who first made a working version of the law on courts and judges, and just those on whose fate in this legislation, they referred this work version to public debate and the public debate is under way. It has now been passed on in the form of a draft to the Republic Committee on Legislatives, therefore, with the best intentions. It will be accepted, both on the draft and later when it is in the form of a proposal in parliament, any objections, all suggestions that a valid law on courts and judges is actually made. It's been mentioned why it hasn't been done in these few months since DOS was in power? It's just that it's a serious, large, responsible job. The law will be passed in the autumn, but you must be aware that huge financial resources are needed to access the implementation of the law. The goal and desire of the new government is precisely the affirmation of the free and independent judiciary. The second level is the selection of personnel, the second is the choice of the most professional, most competent people, with high moral dignity. It's precisely this months-long selection that has tried to reach such candidates. Where a mistake was made, where there was a failure, the Justice Committee corrected that mistake. So there's no big deal about it. Regardless of this fact, that judges were previously elected so that there was no idea who was the promoter, that it was only voted, that in one day without debate more than 100 judges were elected, that in one of the last sessions of the former parliament there was no selection, this is now a big triage, this is a big selection, regardless of how often they have malicious criticism. Furthermore, the fundamental thing in judicial reform is not even legal projects, not even human restoration, but raising the level, raising the status, raising the level of justice to one of the pillars of the state. It was not in Serbia, unfortunately, decades ago. It's a sizif thing. Why wasn't it? That's why, simply, the government has declared the system: cadiya sues you, cadia judges you. I have to tell you that the situation that was found at the Justice Department is really frakking. A commission has been formed to determine various housing malfeasances. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that it has been filed, and this has been done unfortunately by the Ministry of Justice, a criminal complaint against the former minister of justice for abuse in the distribution of apartments. People shared it as if it were his grandfather's, as if it were Alibe's straw, that if he had no criminal responsibility, it would be determined by the judicial authorities, then he has moral responsibilities. Imagine the minister of justice changing five apartments in five years. What does that look like? Where's the morale? Gentlemen, I have to tell you, the other day, a former assistant minister of justice came in for the execution of criminal sanctions and returned two keys to two apartments. He says, "Here I come back, I have a third, if I can keep that third, we'll see." So that's how the government was supposed to take care of justice. I have to tell you something else, in a few months from the formation of the new government has been sued for economic crime and a procedure has been initiated for individuals, themselves or others, to obtain an anti-legal and property benefit in the amount of two billion German marks. I have to tell you, it's a two-hundred-a-half budget from the Department of Justice. I have to tell you that it's more than a lawsuit for the past eight or nine years, where the state has been robbed, but because the system has been functioning -- a cadiya sues you, a cadiya judges you -- no one has been charged with numerous financial malfeasances. The finance and economy ministry also filed criminal charges against two former justice ministers, one deputy, one assistant and one secretary for several crimes, due to financial malfeasances, as there is a reasonable doubt that one piece of damage caused by millions of dinars, another by damages of 31 million dinars and a third part damage of 1,653,000 German marks. It is the expression and evidence of one nepotism, one hypocrisis, one immorality, one devastation of justice to the lowest branches. I've already said that the current budget of the Justice Ministry has been 108,000,000 marks and, I must tell you, an unprecedented savings and rationalization of the current Justice Ministry has saved 17,000,000 marks for six months from the allowable spending of budget funds, i.e. 524,000 dinars. So, the goal is really fair and honest judicial reform. One MP asked me if I was still sticking to that password, those passwords, the motto that was written under the statue of the goddess Justicia, and where it says: "Justice be done, even if the world fails." Of course, because there is another password - Justitia regnorum foundation, justice is the foundation of the state and justice will be the foundation of Serbia's democratic state.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12208	I'm concluding a unique search and we're moving on to a decision. (Tomislav Nikolic advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If I were to say what it is, then we'd be in a position to throw you out, but I'm too late for that. Here, use three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12209	So, since I have the right to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I am reporting the first breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 84 has been injured, which discusses what we are discussing at an emergency session and what suggestions we can discuss. I warn you, given that all this I object to tonight I will be writing safe statements to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, so that you do not come to a situation where you cancel certain elections, or that you are making an illegal decision tonight. In fact, from the time we were scheduled to hold a session of the National Assembly until the 16th of this month, we were able to get suggestions for changing certain points of the agenda, and we received proposals on 17, 18, 19 and 20 for changing certain points of the agenda. I call on you to vote on whether the Justice Committee has the right to direct us today, yesterday or before the motion to change the decision on the choice of judges we need to make or not. I'm saying he has no right. If you want any judge not to be elected, you'll have to vote against the election. This is the proposal we got, and 24 hours before the session starts, is the final deadline in which we can make any changes and supplement that proposal to get it. It's about functions. None of these proposals, which the Committee has delivered to us after that deadline, can be included in the procedure and cannot be discussed here, nor voted, so please, if you are really challenging the choice of some judges ourselves, we have asked that all persons elected today are individually elected and, please follow us, we will certainly be against everyone, but that you who do not want any judges to be elected should you follow when it comes to that judge's vote and that, when you vote for that judge, you will be clearly against it. Please, Mr. President, since this will define our views before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, I ask you to take this objection to my vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12210	Your objection was already voted yesterday. He was the same and he voted. He's not accepted. (Tomislav Nikolic: Another member's injury. You're going back to the session of what's been going on these days, the retrospect. (Tomislav Nikolic: Another member's injury. ) At this point done, between your departure from the pay phone and my announcement. You can't go backwards. (Tomislav Nikolic: I point you to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I want to explain. Do I have the right or do I not? You have the right to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of position 160 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads: "At an extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly is working on a predetermined agenda submitted by the applicant for holding an extraordinary session. "We have completed the search on this agenda, you have not declared whether we will vote on the annulment of two decisions of the National Assembly, and these are decisions that Slobodan Vučetic will no longer be judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and that Mr. Coguric will no longer be judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. The two points were not in the agenda requested by a group of 126 MPs. So these two points today cannot be on the agenda and cannot be undermined by the choice of holders of judicial functions. It's about special points, and it was supposed to be an integral part of the agenda, like in February, when the seventh item of the agenda at the extraordinary session was to make a decision to repeal the decisions of the National Assembly, so please, Mr. President, as this will be the subject of the debate, that the National Assembly be made known about this complaint.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12212	National Assembly, come out. For 38, against 126, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken 17, a total of 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point out the violation of Article 49, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which the Committee on Justice and Administration delivers an opinion on the proposal of the Republic's public prosecutor for the election of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors and proposes the termination of public prosecutorial and judicial functions. We cannot vote today on proposals for the election and resolution of prosecutorial functions. (loud from the O.R.: We can! You can do anything. I'm saying what we can do about the Rules of Procedure. We can't because the proposal that came before the Justice and Administration Committee came from an unauthorized promoter. The only author of authority is still until your decision, Stanisa Ivanovic. He is acting as a republican public prosecutor: if he was able to propose three of his deputies, so you accepted the first on the list, so should the previous position of the Committee on Justice and Administration, which says that the authority that Mr. Ivanovic would eventually pass on to Mr. Nedic was not legal, given that Mr. Ivanovic should have been retired by law several years ago. As far as I know, the Republic Public Prosecutor is not going to settle the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, but the National Assembly. You have a proposal, i.e. you have a decision on the agenda to debunk Ivanovic on the day of discharge, i.e. Today. He's an official of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Nedic is nobody and nothing for the National Assembly, in terms of proposing a public prosecutor's office. To us, the National Assembly - the Committee for Justice and Administration has deceived us by accepting the proposal of an unauthorized promoter - Mr Nedic is not an authorised promoter. It must not be signed as acting as a member of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. Who promoted him to that? Ivanovic? Well, you're saying she doesn't have that right. I'm trying to convince the MPs not to take on insufficiently reasoned opinions, a team before disputes are brought about in front of the highest court cases. I'm asking you to vote on this one in particular, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12214	I ask the Assembly to state whether there has been an injury to Article 49. The Rules of Procedure, as Mr Nikolic pointed out. For 46, against 126, a abstentioned one, was not voted 12, out of a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. There is a word Mr. Petar Jojic - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dissatisfied with the conduct of the Justice Committee which has not acted upon the request to, within the meaning of Article 42. The Law on Courts, Members of People's Parliaments, provides insight into what they are colleges of the judicial authorities...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12216	Mr. Jojic, we've already decided that. You've already objected, and we've already decided. Don't distract this number of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12217	Mr. President, I spoke to you too, but both you and the chairman of the Justice Committee have committed a major violation of the procedure, i.e. significant violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 207, 208 and 209, because you are obliged to allow MPs to see whether there is a positive opinion on the proposed candidates or not. This questioned all of this, and with full right, MPs may doubt that the proposed candidates have not received support, which is why it is hiding. I asked for it, and it wasn't delivered. According to the Rules of Procedure, you were obliged to do so. I expected you to help me in that part. I also spoke to the Justice Committee. But it's hidden from the MPs. Now I'm convinced you don't have the support for candidates from the court's colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12218	No matter what you throw, I'll still have to tell you that you've disappointed me. We were talking in the hallway. I must give an interpretation: I have instructed you to go to the Committee, I have directed you to a member of the Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12219	I asked for it in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12220	And you told me he was lying on my desk while I was running the session. Well, don't play, Mr. former Milosevic regime minister. Shame on you! Bringing memos to my office while you know I'm sitting here, so you can have proof that you gave it up in writing! You're so not ashamed!? He's got Mrs. Pop-Lazic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12221	One warning for these ladies who yell "wow." These ladies were chosen by the people to come here, to work and protect the interests of that people, not to enjoy the night life of the great city. Mr. President, like all other MPs, you are required to adhere to article 99. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can't fight the MPs, nor can you show what you show the moment Mr Vojislav Seselj was to be expelled from this Chamber, you cannot show such things to the MPs. I don't want to show what it is, but our people know what people at your level can show at such times. In today's session, you showed what kind of man you are, what your morals are, what your education is. I'm glad, if we dared you, to show your true face, because in Serbia there is an opinion that you are a double personality. Now we've seen the true face of the president of the Martians.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-20-0.u12222	Well, you'll explain it, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Are there any other violations of the Rules of Procedure? There isn't. We're going to vote. I am putting the motion for a decision to determine that the Act of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, adopted at the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, was held on 21 December 1999, on the basis of which Slobodan Vučetić ceased to serve as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, nothing. For 128 MPs, against 28, abstentioned six, he did not vote 21, a total of 183. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft decision establishing that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia act was reached at the second session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, held on 21 December 1999, on the basis of which Slobodan Vucic ceased to serve as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to put aside the decision on the discharge from the judge's office of the Supreme Court. For 133 MPs, against 25, with six abstentions, he did not vote six, a total of 170. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the motion for a decision to put aside the decision on discharge from the judge's office of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the President's office... (Glasses: Must be named). I ask the MPs to press the tasters on the appropriate parliamentary unit. So, about the termination of duty, it's not an appointment, what -- names? And everything to go by? There are a very large number of contested appointment proposals. What one of the MPs said was that he challenged all the proposals, generally - he did not make any arguments, so he did not dispute any proposals. He only pointed out the objection in the way it was done, but did not challenge any single proposed candidate. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 137 MPs, against 41, with five abstentions, he did not vote 21, a total of 184. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of the President of the General Court. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Commercial Courts. For 135 MPs, against 40, with five abstentions, no four, a total of 184 voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Commercial Courts. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the judicial functions of judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts. For 138 MPs, against 41, abstention four, not one, a total of 184 voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of office of public prosecutors, with an amendment of 17 September 2001. For 134 MPs, against 42, with five abstentions, no four, a total of 185. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the termination of office for public prosecutors, with an amendment since 17 September 2001. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to relieve the President of the General Court. For 137 MPs, against 40, with five abstentions, no four, a total of 186 voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to relieve the President of the General Jurisdiction Court. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the office of the President of the Commercial Courts. For 138 MPs, against 43, abstention four, two, a total of 187 did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the discharge of the office of the President of the Commercial Courts. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the deputy public prosecutor's office in the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. For 134 MPs, against 44, abstention four, did not vote five, a total of 187. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to dismiss the post of deputy municipal public prosecutor in the 4th municipal public prosecutor's office in Belgrade. Before moving to a decision on proposals for the selection of holders of judicial functions, I remind you that one number of proposals by the Committee on Justice and Administration is v.d. a republican public prosecutor challenged. According to Article 172, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure, on every disputed proposal, shall immediately be decided by the National Assembly, and then shall decide on any other undeniable proposals in general, by public vote. We move to a decision on proposals that are disputed during a single search, and then we will vote on other undeniable proposals, in general. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Slavoljub Nikolic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Branko Pavlovic for the judge and president of the District Court in Smederev. (Glass from the O.R.: Community Court.) We're pulling this until we check where the mistake is. I put the motion V.D. to the vote. a republican public prosecutor, to elect Zoran Pesic as district attorney in Cačka, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Rajko Baralic and Dragan Tomic. For 100, against 61, abstentioned 19, did not vote 7, a total of 187. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Zoran Pesic as district attorney in Cacca. We're going back to that: it's been confirmed that it's a district court. It is therefore put to the vote of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Slavoljub Nikolic as Judge and President of the District Court in Smederev. (A voice from the O.R.: His candidacy was not challenged. ) I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to elect Goran Spasic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Slobodan Janjic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Vladic's Han. For 134, against 43, abstentions 7, they didn't vote two, a total of 186. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Goran Spasic as President of the Municipal Court in Vladica Han. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Siniša Stojljkovic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Slobodan Janjic, for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Bujanovac. For 133, against 43, abstentions 7, they didn't vote two, a total of 185. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Siniša Stojiljkovic as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Bujanovac. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Mirjana Mitic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Slobodan Janjic for the President of the Municipal Court in Surdulica. For 136, against 42, abstentions 6, not three, a total of 187. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mirjana Mitic as the president of the Municipality of Surdulica. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Vojkan Mitrovica, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Zoran Radovanovic for Judge and President of the Chamber of Commerce in Nis. For 133, against 44, abstentions 5, did not vote 6, a total of 188. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Private Mitrovica as judge and president of the Chamber of Commerce in Nis. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Verica Stamenkovic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Zoran Radovanovic, for the President of the District Court in Nis. For 136, against 44, with 5 abstentions, not voting 26, a total of 187. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Verica Stamenkovic as the President of the District Court in Nis. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to elect Ana Marki Bin, whose candidacy has been challenged by the MPs Bozidar Vujic and Borvoj Drakulovic for the Judge and President of the Court of Commerce in Subotica. For 128, against 45, abstentioned 12, two, a total of 187 were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Anna Marki Bin as judge and president of the Chamber of Commerce in Subotica. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to elect Jelisaveta Vasilic, whose candidacy has been disputed by MP Bojan Pajtic, as the president of the Senior Court of Commerce. For 72, against 42, abstention 63, did not vote 6, a total of 183. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Jelisaveta Vasilic to be the president of the Senior Court of Commerce. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to elect Milorad Klasna for the judge and president of the Municipality's court in Smederev, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Dragan Colic. The vote was 132, against 45, abstentioned 5, did not vote 5, a total of 187. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Milorad Klassa as judge and president of the Smedereva Municipal Court. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Ante Boskovic, whose candidacy is disputed for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Obrenovac. For 131 versus 43, with 8 abstentions, did not vote 5, a total of 187. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ante Boskovic as judge and president of the Obrenovac Municipal Court. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to elect Dragisa Cvejic, whose candidacy has been challenged by the MPs Gordana Pop - Lazic, Milan Stankovic, Lazar Marjanski, as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Knjaževec. I read what's written to me, I'm sorry. For 130, against 44, abstentions 5, did not vote 7, a total of 186. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dragisa Cvejic as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Književec. Here, Marjanski's coming up, here's the whole package. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to elect Jasmina Divnic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Marjan Risticevic for the President of the Municipal Court in Indjija. For 100, against 49, with 25 abstentions, it did not vote 11, a total of 185. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Jasmine Divnic as the President of the Municipal Court in India. Here, we are now working a little, thanks to Mr Lazar Marjanski's public envoy - all of the following have been challenged by the MP Lazar Marjanski. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to elect Bozidar Vasic for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Ub, whose candidacy is disputed by the MP mentioned. For 124, against 43, abstentions 8, no vote was made on 8, a total of 183. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Bozidar Vassic as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Ub. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to elect Ivan Ristivojevic for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Osijek, whose candidacy is disputed by the MP mentioned. For 127, against 42, abstention four, did not vote 9, a total attendance of 182. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ivana Ristivojevic as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Osijek. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to elect Boris Georgiev for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Bosilegrad, whose candidacy is disputed by the MP mentioned. For 126, against 39, abstentions 6, did not vote 9, totalling 180. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Boris Georgiev as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Bosilegrad. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Snezana Janjic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Lazar Marjanski, for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Vranje. For 125, against 35, abstentions 6, did not vote 14, totalling 180. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Snezana Janjic as judge and president of the Vranj Municipal Court. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Borisvoje Zunic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the municipal court in Topoli. For 127, v. 39, abstention four, did not vote 11, total present 181. I understand that the National Assembly has chosen Borisvoj Zunic as judge and president of the municipal court in Topoli. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Gorica Coralic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Raca. For 125, against 36, the abstention of three, did not vote 17, a total of 181. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Gorica Coralic as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Raca. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Yugoslavia's Markovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the Municipality's Court of Justice in Varvarin. For 126, against 38, abstention four, did not vote 13, a total of 181. I find that the National Assembly has elected Yugoslavia's Markovic as judge and president of the Municipality's court in Varvarin. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Miodrag Jankovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Leskovec. For 124, against 37, abstention four, did not vote 15, a total of 180. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Miodrag Jankovic, as judge and president of the Municipality's court in Leskovac. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Aleksandar Panic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Title. For 127, v. 39, abstention three, did not vote 12, a total of 181. I find that the National Assembly has elected Alexander Panic, Judge and President of the Municipal Court in the titel. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Zoran Hadzic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the Public Court in Jagodina. For 130, against 39, abstentions 5, did not vote 7, a total of 181. I understand that the National Assembly has chosen Zoran Hadzic as judge and president of the Public Court in Jagodina. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Zoran Petrovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Svilajnc. For 127, against 38, abstention four, did not vote 11, a total of 180. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Zoran Petrovic as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Svilajnc. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to elect Slavisa Pavlovic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MP Lazar Marjanski, as judge and president of the Municipal Court in the Great Plan. For 130, against 40, abstention four, did not vote 8, a total of 182. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Slavisa Pavlovic as judge and president of the Municipal Court in the Great Plan. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Dusan Cetojevic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Stara Pazova. For 97, v. 68, abstention 10, did not vote 7, a total of 182. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dusan Cetojevic as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Old Pazova, through needle ears. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Lazo Petric, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Backo Topoli. For 126, against 40, abstentions 6, did not vote 8, a total of 180. I understand that the National Assembly has chosen Laz Petric as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Backo Topoli. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Jovis Lazarevic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Koseric. For 127, against 41, abstentions 6, did not vote 8, a total of 182. I find the National Assembly has chosen Jovis Lazarevic as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Koseric. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Board of Administration and the Justice to elect Vladimir Beader for the President of the Business Court in Novi Sad whose candidacy has been challenged. 61, against 43, abstention 64, did not vote 14, a total of 182. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Vladimir Beader to be President of the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad. We're moving to a decision on other undeniable proposals, in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges and the president of district and municipal courts with amendments from 17, 18 and 20 September 2001. For 120, against 16, abstentions 37, no vote was made by 8, a total of 181. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to elect judges and president of district and municipal courts with amendments of 17, 18 and 20 September 2001. I put the motion for a decision to elect judges and president of economic courts. For 123, against 15, abstentions 35, did not vote 7, a total of 180. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the motion for a decision on the choice of judges and president of economic courts. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of district attorneys. For 119 against 14, abstention 36, did not vote 10, a total of 179. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft decision on the selection of district attorneys. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of deputy district attorneys, with a correction. For 101, against 15, abstentioned 46, it did not vote 17, a total of 179. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the motion for a decision to elect deputy district attorneys, with a correction. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of municipal public prosecutors. For 114, against 15, abstentioned 31, did not vote 15, a total of 175. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft decision on the selection of municipal public prosecutors. I am voting on a motion for a decision on the election of deputy municipal public prosecutors, with amendments from 30 August 2001 and a correction of 17 September 2001. For 109 against 15, abstentioned 36, not voted 12, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to elect deputy municipal public prosecutors, with amendments of 30 August 2001 and a correction since 17 September 2001. Allow me ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, on the choice of holders of judicial functions and to wish for success in the work of all those whom we have chosen today. We need to make a decision, because we've made a decision, that we'll make a deal when we continue this session. It was suggested that it be Monday. Do you agree that we continue work Monday at 10.00 hours? Please state by voting. For 131 versus 19, abstentioned three, no vote was eight, a total of 161. We'll continue Monday at 10.00 hours.
