ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5519	I'm asking the MPs for a little more patience. The material's on multiplication, we got it 5-10 minutes ago from the government, so I'm asking you for another ten minutes of patience. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Ljubisa Djokovic, Mihajl Markovic, Branimir Trajkovic, Istvan Ipsanovic, Anita Beretic, Karol Kermeci, Zoran Mićovic, Milutin Svetović, Muja Mukovic, Milan Milosavljevic, Sreten Mitrovica, Goran Ciric, Visnja Nežić, Zoran Boskovic, Milija Jovanovic, Boško Ristic, Miroslav Martic, Branko Besevic and Rodoljub Šabić (at noon). I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Before moving to the agenda of the session, I remind you that the National Assembly at yesterday's session, on the basis of the agreement of the president of the parliamentary groups, and because of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the position of the Serbian people and other non-Albanian communities, decided to suspend the work of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 to hold the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with only one item of the agenda, and this: a motion for a resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the position of the Serbian people, which was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider the urgent procedure. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on an emergency procedure proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the proposal for a resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the position of the Serb people should be considered after an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider this proposal as an emergency procedure, and I ask the MPs to make their statement. For 202, no one with abstentions voted 5, a total of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the emergency procedure proposal, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda of the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 as a whole. I ask the People's Messengers to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5520	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I suggest adding the following words to the first item of the agenda, therefore, to the motion for a resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the position of the Serbian people and other non-Albanian communities. I don't think a comment like this should be made, especially as Mr. President said in his presentation one such text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5521	I gave you my word on the draft agenda, although you know it, according to the Rules of Procedure, how changes are done and the agenda complements. (Zeljo Huric): We didn't have time, we got it yesterday. ( ) Yesterday you received, and to this day you could have said what you had now said to prepare in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to suggest. (Zeljo Huric (from place): It is three days under the Rules of Procedure. ) In any case, your proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure and cannot be put to the plea. I am voting on the draft agenda of the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. For 205, no one, with two abstentions, voted three, a total of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a RESOLVATION ON THE COUNTRY OF KOSOV AND METOSHY AND THE POSITION OF THE SERBIAN PEOPLE You received a motion for a resolution, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Given the importance of issues which are the subject of today's sittings and the need to adopt the text of the motion for resolution as quickly as possible, because of the serious situation in Kosovo and Metohija, in order to work more efficiently and achieve a single position, and based on the agreement previously reached with the presidents of the parliamentary groups and on the proposal and suggestions that I have received, I suggest that we work today in the following way: - that the National Assembly educates a special working group that would accompany the debate and propose possible amendments and amendments to the text of the motion for a resolution, which would be declared by the National Assembly; - that the working group are a representative of the Government, the President of the National Assembly and the Vice-Presidents of Parliament groups in the National Assembly. Do you agree with this? I'm asking you to plead with me by voting. For 188, no one with abstentions voted 24, a total of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. In accordance with Article 153 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search into the motion for a resolution. Does the Prime Minister, Dr Zoran Djindjic, want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5522	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, during the formation of the government and in its three-month work on the problem, the severe inherited problem in Kosovo and Metohija, three priorities have been identified. They also coincide with what has been accepted in our public as important with what Serbs and other non-Albanian residents of Kosovo and Metohija consider important. The first of these priorities concerns the establishment of personal and property security for people who have remained to live in Kosovo and Metohija, partly in enclaves, partly as individuals under very difficult circumstances, and in part in that part, the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, where living conditions are somewhat better. In general, everyday conditions for personal safety and property security are very bad. The first task of the government and all authorities from the SRJ and Serbia, of course within their capabilities and competences, with co-operation with those organisations that are obliged to care for personal and property security, is to establish at least a minimum level of personal and property security for all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija as soon as possible. It includes resolving the issues of kidnapped and missing persons, meaning that all those who have disappeared or are missing are resolved. The second point concerns ensuring the return of refugees and exiled persons, without which there can be no solution for Kosovo and Metohija, either permanent or temporary. The third priority and the third important thing concerns the creation of a legal framework and minimum institutions that can provide lasting protection for the rights of people living in Kosovo and Metohija. It cannot be talked about the return of a significant number of expelled and refugees, unless they can count on institutions that would permanently protect their individual and collective rights and guarantee that they will not be majorised and will not be reduced to the status of second-class citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. These are the three objectives that I believe are general, that there is no dispute in Serbia and there is no dispute around them either among political parties or among Serbian citizens living in central Serbia and living in Kosovo and Metohija, who have temporarily escaped from Kosovo and Metohija and who have remained in Kosovo and Metohija. If we look at what happened in these 100 days, ever since this government has certain powers and has the opportunity to do something, we regretfully have to realize that there has been no concrete progress on either of these three targets. Although our country's position has been greatly strengthened in the meantime, although all the reasons for discrimination and Serbia and Serbs have been excluded, and there is no longer an absolute country in the world that can publicly demand that any discrimination be made against the citizens of Serbia, according to the Serbian government, towards Serbia and Yugoslavia in general, this general support for our policy has not resulted in any concrete improvement in the situation in Kosovo and Metohija itself and improving the prospects for resolving at least one of these three priorities. They are particularly concerned by the latest events, meaning events from the last two or three months, and the events of the past few days are also the reason for the Government, with agreement with parliamentary clubs in the National Assembly, to propose a session, an extraordinary session of this assembly and to propose a resolution, in which the Assembly would declare some of these events of recent times. First, we have the phenomenon of exports of terrorism from Kosovo and Metohija to neighbouring areas, and above all to southern Serbia and then to Macedonia. Then we have worrying actions by international organisations, which have the authority to regulate life in Kosovo and Metohija, by introducing customs checkpoints at the administrative border towards central Serbia. Then, we also have a worrying development of discussion and the process of establishing a legal framework, from which the Serbian people expect both the security institutions and the protection of rights, and according to information, partly confirmed, partially unconfirmed, that discussion of the legal frameworks is rather moving in the opposite direction, that hope is not created, not only for those who live there, but also for those who should return from where they are expelled, that if they live in Kosovo and Metohija their rights, both personal and collective, will be protected. We believe that there are solutions and we believe that these solutions are possible and therefore this session today is not only seen as criticism and as protests, but we understand it as supporting the legitimate demands of the Serbian people and those who participate in the Committee on the Making of the Legal Framework and those who participate in other bodies and try to show through active participation that they want to live in Kosovo and Metohija, that they want to live in peace, that they want to turn to the future and that they show that the Serbian people are not the problem. The Serbian people are currently the solution to Kosovo and Metohija's problems. The problem's on the other side. This problem needs to be defined, it needs to be broken down into certain parts and solved. We as Government see the first problem in the fact that terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija is not in a sufficiently clear political way internationally defined and not treated in such a clear way. We see that there is a division of business between a political wing and a military wing in Kosovo and Metohija. The political wing is publicly, declaring itself advocating extreme goals, which the military wing is then trying to achieve in the field. We believe that it is not enough for the international community and democratic governments to condemn only the consequences, to condemn only the functioning of militant parts, that military wing. They have to accuse in the same way and cause. All those politicians of Albanian nationality in Kosovo and Metohija are the cause of a change in borders, which talk about the application of violence, which do not condemn the application of violence as a means to achieve political goals. We believe that the basis of a civilized political and European policy is that political objectives can only be achieved through political means. No democratic government in the world should make any contact with any political organisation, which clearly does not give up violence as a means to achieve political goals. We are very sorry that Kosovo and Metohija prevail and have a majority impact on political parties and organisations that accept violence as a means of achieving political goals and which define political goals contrary to all international declarations. All international conventions and declarations confirm the immutability of borders, primarily the invariability of borders by other means than political means. That is why we think that there is still the possibility of acting politically on the international agenda and making it clear that there is no support for any political organisations or individuals, who clearly do not give up violence and who do not accept existing borders as frameworks in which they are fighting to exercise their rights by political means. We encourage members of the Serbian national community, as well as members of other national communities, to participate in all activities that can contribute to the creation of conditions for normal life. Although we are aware that there is fatigue because there is no result, which is very much said in the declaration plan on Resolution 1244, and in the field it is not implemented. There is a phenomenon that parts of the international community, involved in a situation they did not expect, have partly become hostages to the situation. We are ready together with them and together with the democratic world to gradually introduce democracy, order to this whole space, by being ready for us to respect the laws, to act as one democratic government, but we expect everyone else to do the same, we expect concrete results. We have not given up on any of these three points, because we are aware that there is a great delay in achieving the obligations that the international community has taken on itself. We are also aware that only in collaboration with the international community can we achieve our interests in such a complicated situation, as is she now in Kosovo and Metohija and in the entire environment of Kosovo and Metohija as a crisis center of a slightly larger regional crisis. So, we don't want a confrontation with international organisations, we want co-operation, but we want a solution to the problem. We encourage and encourage Serbs to participate in all activities, but we encourage them to fight for their rights, not to agree to solutions that violate their rights. This resolution is seen by the government as a contribution to such a policy and as encouraging and supporting Serbs who have opposed the introduction of customs in the administrative town of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija and who are seeking, through a debate on the legal framework, to create in Kosovo and Metohija institutions that will provide their rights both now and in the future. A draft proposed by the government as the basis for this assembly's resolution has been drawn up in consultation with parliamentary groups. I'll read you the text of that proposal. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia voices deep concern over the situation in the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija and the position of the Serbian people and other non-Albanian communities. Two years after the introduction of the international civil and military administration, the security situation in the province is becoming increasingly difficult. The return of the exiles, to which the international community has committed itself to Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, is becoming more uncertain. The life of the remaining Serbs, especially in small Kosovo enclaves, is exposed to complete uncertainty and daily risk. International representatives prefer to think of the adoption of rules on temporary self-government, rather than the elemental security of people. The terrorism in the Autonomous Region has not only not been prevented, it has entered an even more radical stage. More and more frequent organised killings of Serbs and representatives of our country. They are happening more and more often, killing representatives of more moderate political options among Kosovo Albanians. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia requires UNMIK, UNMIK's administration, to conduct an investigation within a month to clarify the fate of all kidnapped and missing persons and to inform families of kidnapped and missing persons, as well as the public, not only its international but also its moral obligation, after the expiry of the deadline. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is urging all international institutions dealing with the protection of human rights to step up their efforts to clarify the fate of 1,300 abducted and missing Serbs in the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. An additional disturbance has brought customs checkpoints to the administrative border of the Autonomous Region and the rest of the Republic of Serbia. This is another act by UNMIK's administration in the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija violates Resolution 1244, creating an artificial economic barrier between the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija and the rest of the Republic of Serbia. We give full support to citizens' resistance to these rough procedures, which violates Yugoslav customs regulations and tax regulations of the Republic of Serbia. A particular problem is the creation of a legal framework for Kosovo's temporary self-government. The basic text made in UNMIK does not provide a elemental guarantee of the protection of the rights of national and ethnic communities. Albanian representatives in the task force are asking for more than that and pressured international experts. The adoption of a legal act for Kosovo's temporary self-government is a commitment stemming from the Security Council Resolution, which envisions the establishment of essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija. On the basis of the legal framework, elections should be held for authorities and then they should start to function. Our goal for this occasion is double. First, to ensure that the choices and rules of functioning of the temporary authorities are guaranteed and protected, so that the interests of the Serb community are guaranteed and protected. Secondly, to achieve the legal and legitimate presence of our state authorities in the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija and the application of our laws, at least in Serb areas. We support all amendments that protect the Serb and other non-Albanian communities, especially the following: 1. Free and fair elections, freedom of movement of all citizens and members of all national and ethnic communities, the return of all displaced persons and their right to return property, 2. The temporary institutions should be the Assembly, the Government and the Ombudsman, 3. The assembly consists of 120 MPs, of which 30, which is three times 10, are national and ethnic communities - Serbs, Albanians and others, 4. Representatives of national and ethnic communities form in the assembly of a parliamentary delegation of national and ethnic communities, 5. A special decision-making process is envisaged when it comes to the protection of national interests. These issues cannot be decided by the congregation majority, but by the process of harmonisation as proposed, 6. The Assembly adopts regulations and other general acts, not laws, 7. National and ethnic delegations in the assembly provide a parliamentary quorum, participate in the election of their representative in the presidency of the assembly and government, 8 / 8 The Assembly's presidency is a collective body, whose chairman changes to 6 months, the presidency proposes to the government, 9. The government has a president and a limited number of ministers, 10. The justice system in the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija remains fully in the jurisdiction of the special representative and operates under the existing regulations, 11. Kosovo Protection Corps is abolished, police service is the only law enforcement body. The adoption of these amendments would establish minimum mechanisms for the protection of national and ethnic interests and allow for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1244. The Government therefore proposes to the Assembly to accept the ideas and proposals put forward in Resolution or in general or with some additions, which would be the result of the discussion at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we agreed yesterday that we would take a break because of the need to study everything. I just want to draw attention to the fact that from yesterday, from that draft text to this day, I have already received some suggestions from three parties, that there is already one somewhat modified and updated text in relation to the Government's proposal, according to the suggestions of political party representatives, and that according to these materials, therefore, according to this basic text, the Government's proposal, following this updated text, after the end of this debate as a working group. We also agreed to take part in the debate today at the top of three representatives of the parliamentary clubs, and I suggest that they receive the orderly word -- a representative of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, then the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and the Party of Serbian Unity. Do you agree with that principle, so that we don't go into trouble for me to determine who will speak at any time, and all of you report at the same time? Yeah. ) Representative of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5524	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have said enough about the seriousness of the situation in which our society lies and the dimensions of the tragedy that shakes the space of Kosovo and Metohija. I think that, as direct actors, either as observers of political developments in Serbia over the past 10 years, we have practically told everything about Kosovo and Metohija, and that today we are obliged to, without mutually accusing, criticise all those political moves we are trying to find that minimum space we will go through, in accordance with not only the national interests of the Serbian people, but also with the interests of civil Serbia, solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija in a stable way, which would provide a very different perspective from those offered at the moment. I will remind you of all that is happening at this time in Kosovo and Metohija, these are practically events that we and as parliament, as power and opposition, and finally, and not ultimately as citizens of Serbia, can observe, but unfortunately we cannot influence these events too much. If so today, it does not mean that it must be so in the future and we are obliged to, as responsible politicians, do everything to make such a situation change as soon as possible. I'll remind you of just a few facts that are important at this point and certainly deserve our attention. They overcome our party frameworks and overcome the programming principles on which both the government's positions and the opposition's positions were built, but I certainly think they are fully in the context of what is democratic Serbia's ambition. We have factual sovereignty in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and this sovereignty is guaranteed by Resolution 1244, i.e. formal. We even have the fact. He's confirmed in some acts, very specific. I mentioned Resolution 1244 and was confirmed in a number of international community representatives' performances. The problem is certainly the fact that the same international community is the Supreme Arbitrarian in solving the problems that exist in Kosovo and Metohija, and that it, especially in recent weeks, has been in breach of in its arbitration those effective rights guaranteed by Resolution 1244 of the Republic of Serbia and which the parliament of the Republic of Serbia supported in a previous session that practically marked the end of the war with the NATO Pact. So I'd like to pay attention to two facts. First, that the international community is the Supreme Arbitrator in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija, and secondly, that the international community in the process of solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija is bypassing authorities in Belgrade, bypassing representatives of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as representatives of the non-Albanian population living in Kosovo and Metohija. The temporary legal framework for Kosovo and Metohija is a practical extension of the real effort shown during the Rambuje-led talks process and held in Paris, a process that ended without compromise and which has officially led to a war with the North Atlantic Alliance. So what is happening today is just an extension of the international community's efforts, which thus confirms continuity in the policy it is implementing. What we have to do today must certainly not be something like what we did, not understanding or finding a way out of the situation in 1999. The existing frameworks in which we move as a society, as a democratic government, as an opposition and as a position, we need to see what kind of terrain we can achieve in order to solve this dramatic and difficult situation. The international community has a double standard according to Serbia alone. We see her face in the process of solving the problems that exist in southern Serbia. We see this face in the process of solving problems that are solved in accordance with our interests. I think we'll agree that our interest is to abolish the Homeland Security Zone and return the state's representatives to those five kilometers of disputed territory. At the same time, on the other hand, the same international community has roughly disputed those minimum rights that we are guaranteed. That is why Parliament is obliged, among other things, to state clearly - if the compensation of the international community is a policy that leads to the process of solving the problem in the Land Area of Security, especially in southern Serbia, that we cannot recognise this compensation, because democratic Serbia, the democratic government and citizens of Serbia cannot agree to such a kind of territorial compensation, which in itself denies the basic postulates of a democratic society that we want to build. So neither can there be any compromise on the exchange of territory or on the yielding of Kosovo and Metohija, so that something is done in southern Serbia in the Land Area of Security, in which we have returned so far. Another important, certainly important and inevitable fact, are all those frameworks defined by Resolution 1244 and in which we are moving today, which should certainly be further highlighted, so that by insisting on their realization we would practically protect that internationally expressed will of the same international community and the Security Council, which is in our favor. Therefore, Resolution 1244 empowers members of the international community to form an international security presence. After two years, we can say that what has been done in Kosovo and Metohija is in itself a repeat of a certain procedure that the international community has conducted on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There has been no armed incident in Bosnia and Herzegovina since the time of arrival of representatives of the international community, including security forces. From the moment Kosovo and Metohija arrived, we have 1,300 kidnapped citizens of Serbian nationality and non-Albanian population. So the international community did not respect the basic postulate on which it built Resolution 1244, based on which it also formalised its presence in Kosovo and Metohija. And, with the absence of one such concrete result, the international community's rights formally contained in Resolution 1244 have been denied and which it is now trying to realise through the definition of Kosovo and Metohija's temporary status. This is one of the aspirations that has itself been expressed in this entire political process that has led towards our society. So, if there are no basic security elements, the population cannot develop, and neither can the political process, which is phase two of Resolution 1244, which is so perceived. There is no security, we are witnessing 1,300 abducted citizens, Serbia is with 1,300 uncertain fates, we are witnessing daily violence, we are witnessing an extension of the process of emigration and citizens of Serbian nationality and citizens of non-Albanian nationality from the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The second stage, of course, is a whole series of political and legal conventions that follow the international community's attitude towards Serbia. In that sense, ignoring Belgrade's political will and particularly ignoring the will of Serbian and non-Albanian nationalities in Kosovo and Metohija. If there are no representatives in the Interim Administrative Council in Kosovo and Metohija, representatives of both the non-Albanian population and representatives of the Serbian National Community, then we wonder what the purpose of the Interim Administrative Council of Kosovo and Metohija is. That is certainly not the point expressed in the performances of Bernard Kushner, administrator in Kosovo and Metohija, nor is it the meaning indicated by Mr Hackerup. So, at this point, we don't have any legal or legitimate bodies in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of the international community's insistence that everything that seems to be in recent weeks is just being interpreted in one such way. I think that the solutions that would lead us out of this really difficult situation, exactly the solutions that are mentioned in this Resolution and which are not going into conflict with the international community, because they are the clear results of each of these conflicts with the international community, that these are solutions that strengthen the positions of our representatives in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, but at the same time I think that the Serbian Parliament is obliged, by its example and by its relationship with Kosovo and Metohija, to the problem, to point out the form of behaviour that should be established in some of the relations between our representatives in that part of the country, our representatives who unfortunately have not cooperated so far to the extent that we may have wanted to, to the extent that we have had opportunities and for such co-operation. Besides, they share fate together and there's no reason why they shouldn't try to get out of the situation they're in together. What is very important to say is that we do not have any illusions in terms of the interim legal framework for Kosovo and Metohija, which is practically further intensifying one process of independence for Kosovo and Metohija, in a situation where the international community obviously cannot resolve the ethnic conflicts that exist on that part of our territory. What may be holding back at this point is that everything, in an even more adequate relationship with Serbia, is certainly whether the democratic party that is definitely dominant in the representation of the Albanian people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. We must insist on several principles, and first on the principle of co-operation with the international community. Secondly, on the principle that the government of democratic Serbia and the government of democratic Yugoslavia will be presented in another way. Because the international community is trying to affirm their positions to have a partner in solving these problems. And finally, we have to avoid all those political moves that we've made in the past years, just from one fact. They weren't effective, and they didn't give us the results we might have wanted and what we certainly didn't need to argue with each other. Peace in Kosovo and Metohija must be contained, and the peace is required to ensure the international community. We as the Republic are prepared to help, to the extent that the international community allows such a thing. Unfortunately, this is the result of Resolution 1244 which we have nothing but this paper sovereignty in that part of our territory. The second stage certainly is the stage of establishing the dialogue... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... between representatives of the Serbian National Community in Kosovo and Metohija and the establishment of an elementary work between democratic forces in society, in order to follow a clear political course in line with the interests of citizens living in that part of our territory. Certainly, the third is very concrete support that we will provide to representatives who are currently in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, trying to solve in the political areas in which they operate, the problem that is truly serious, dramatic and can be resolved by accepting the amendments with which we have come to Parliament today, with amendments with which representatives of the Serbian National Community have come before Hans Hackerup, and the interim administratively larger Kosovo and Metohija. What is important is to underline our efforts to preserve the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, is to ensure that in this political process we are not strictly acting as a government, but as responsible people who are obliged to hear the voice of the opposition, but at the same time obliged to hear the voice of the international community and to establish in such a relationship the political course that will take us out of a troubled time in which, unfortunately, we have not managed to manage, nor to protect what we were obliged to, as politicians, protect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5525	Mr. Ivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5526	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia and its MPs in this assembly, I am pleased that a unanimous decision has been made to consider this item of the agenda at the session of the Serbian Parliament and I consider that this is also in line with the written and oral requirements that we have made in this assembly, asking for an analysis of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija to be a special item of the agenda of this assembly. I consider the adoption of the resolution extremely important, but I also welcome the decision by the president of the Assembly to schedule a special session on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the government's measures, which the government would propose to the Assembly for further adoption in the government's work towards the state of Kosovo and Metohija. At the same time, I would like to remind you that we have submitted the initiative in writing to include the situation in southern Serbia as well as the definition of relations and delegations of the assembly as part of a particular team to discuss redefining relations between the Republic of Montenegro and Serbia within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Kosovo and Metohija, space and population, have essentially been used for centuries for special relations and for the construction of special policy towards Serbian states, and later towards the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, respectively, towards post-war Yugoslavia. That space has always been a place to blackmail. There has always been room for bargaining, there has always been room for pressure, above all towards the Serbian people, but also other non-Albanian lives in Kosovo and Metohija territory. A newer history of pressure essentially began after the Kritski Meeting, where leaders, leading people of the South European countries, met and agreed on many things of great importance for the countries of Southeast Europe, agreed independently without the influence of any major force on the introduction of a customs-free union, and particularly significant talks by representatives of the SRJ and NR Albania. These critical meetings essentially motivated those who took the right to decide on world governance, to encourage separatist and terrorist activities in Kosovo and Metohija at the end of 1997, to produce a terrible media campaign primarily against the Serb people and to essentially prepare everything that happened before Rambuje, around Rambuje and NATO aggression. Resolution 1244 is the measure of a particular compromise, but it is also the result of a terrible struggle by a small nation, the citizens of the SRJ against NATO aggression and essentially one moral victory, because it can't be fundamentally military, because David went against Goliath, because they were great human victims, because the great infrastructure and material damage to this country were done, but yet that Resolution 1244 represented the victory of the citizens of Serbia and this people in that unequal struggle. This Resolution 1244 carries the basic and essential kmponents related above all to the integrity and sovereignty of the SRJ, bearing the essential definitions of the international community expressed primarily in terms of Article 9 (a) to (d), where the international community assumes on itself the right, responsibility for the security and equality of all citizens in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and the creation of conditions for the return of all exiled persons to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and for public peace and security. The next is Article 10, which discusses the creation of essential autonomy in terms of autonomy recognised by European and world standards. This resolution, so adopted, was the victory of the Serbian citizens, a moral victory, and we expected that resolution to be applied as a whole. He's been after us for two years. Two years of KejFOR's stay, two years of work by UNMIK's administration, with Kushner headed, and now the Hackerup, suggests the international community continues with a double-standard policy. It suggests that the international community allows separatism and terrorism from Kosovo and Metohija to spread south to Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia. It also points to what the predecessors for this full-fledged speaker pointed out - that the international community had different arches in applying its activities in other countries or in Republika Srpska compared to everything that was happening in Kosovo and Metohija. A media campaign of lies, which was tied to Racac, for fake satellite footage of mass graves, fell into the water. There was no evidence anywhere, after two years of Kejfor's stay, of any discovered mass graves. It was proven that Racak was staged, as Marquel was once staged. There has been a lot of evidence from double standards, a lot of bad intentions of the international community. That is why it is of great value for this assembly's decisions that, on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a resolution that each MP will stand behind and show the international community the readiness of Serbian citizens, and I believe the citizens of the SRJ, as a whole, to require that every provision of Resolution 1244 be applied. In that sense, I'd like to say that we also have certain suggestions. In fact, it is true that these amendments, which are listed as attitudes, are extremely good and that they should certainly be welcomed and supported as attitudes, in the aspirations of representatives of the people of the SRJ, legal representatives of the SRJ in the formation of the legal framework, but we must say that it is not a pleasant situation for us to welcome the amendments, and absolutely none of us in this room has any idea what the comprehensive text of this legal framework looks like. For this reason, we propose that instead of stating the amendments be one text that I will now read, the text that would go after the first paragraphs of the entire page and the work of the other party, which would say this: Assessing that the international community has taken full responsibility for guaranteeing the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ and its application in general, we ask that the United Nations take immediate concrete measures for the full application of this resolution, primarily for the security and equality of all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija as a basic prerequisite for returning to their homes and achieving their fundamental human rights. It is not acceptable to adopt any legal framework for the establishment of so-called Autonomy, which is a liability at point 10. Resolutions, nor to consider any elections in Kosovo and Metohija without having met all of the above obligations at point 9. Resolutions, and in particular obligations set out in points (a) to (d), which refer to the full demilitarisation of KLAs and other armed groups, as well as the establishment of a safe environment in which exiled persons can return to their homes, in the conditions of secure public security and order. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is asking the Federal Assembly and the Federal Government for the international community and its representatives in general to affirm the views of this assembly and to point out the non-acceptance of human rights violations, the majorisation process and the creation of state attributes in Kosovo and Metohija. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia requires that official representatives of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia participate in the process of developing a legal framework for autonomy, in line with Security Council Resolution 1244. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5527	Mr. Seselj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5528	I am very sorry that the Serbian Radical Party does not have an absolute majority in this parliament in order to vote for such a resolution that is appropriate to the present situation, to pass those laws that would be useful to the Serbian people, but we will vote for this resolution no matter how pale it is, no matter how unarranged it is, no matter how shy it is. We feel that it is better to bring in such a document that we are deeply dissatisfied with than none, that it is better to answer in any way than not. It is obvious from all that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija that Western forces continue to lead a highly anti-Serbian policy. It is no accident that these Western forces have supported all Serbian enemies, and Slovenians, and Croats, and Bosnian Muslims, and Shipara, in the past 10 years, and that they support all those on the Serbian political scene who want to break the single Serbian state, in a wide diapazon from Milo Djukanovic to Nenad Canka, which houses a large number of DOS parties. In this case, a huge number of Serbian citizens were expecting, and this is what DOS promised in the pre-election campaign, when Slobodan Milosevic fell, when power changed, when those parties close to NATO's pact came to power, that this Western policy would radically change, that it would no longer be anti-Serbian, that it was anti-Serbian because Milosevic was in power. As soon as Milosevic falls, it will no longer be anti-Serbian, it will be extremely Serbian, old friendships between the Serb people and the Western forces will be restored. We saw that it was a big con, because anti-Serbian politics continued with new intensity, the key objectives of breaking the Serbian state were not abandoned by a single hairline, and Western forces proved to be considered a change of government only as a facilitating factor, to make what their ultimate intention was - that the coming DOS to power actually made it easier for them to achieve what they had set for themselves as their main goal in the Balkans. And they weren't wrong about that, they showed up in all these moves that were being taken by the Western forces, as of October 5th, to go in that direction, and it was not by any chance that there was an escalation of Shiptar terrorism in the area of three southern Serbian municipalities - Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, and in Medvedja not as much as they planned, but there is a very difficult situation. Now, the government is one minute to twelve, because tomorrow the Hackerup is expected to make a final decision, submits one proposal, pales the motion for a resolution, as if we do, too, so shyly, rather than actually wanting to change it any more. There were two texts -- one text in the form of a draft was delivered yesterday to MP groups, and another text, which was delivered today to the National Assembly. It's very interesting what's been thrown out of the draft -- everything that's unacceptable for us, like Serbs, for Serbs as a people, which is unacceptable for the state of Serbia. What is it -- in Kosovo and Metohija there are no conditions for creating a parliamentary democracy of the majority type, which Albanian representatives in the working group are looking for. They baselessly demand that the document be called a constitution or at least a provisional constitution, that Kosovo has a president, to provide for a referendum on self-determination, that the assembly decides in all cases by simple majority, to establish an independent judicial system, with the Supreme Court at its head, that there is a constitutional court. If such a quasi-parliamentary system were established, Serbs and other non-Albanians would have nothing to look for in his institutions. On the contrary, the amendments are in motion and now these amendments have been submitted by Serbian representatives. Why did the government throw out this key part of the text, why is the government afraid of that part of the text? Why not tell the Western forces openly - what is absolutely unacceptable for Serbia and that the National Assembly is behind it? I don't think anyone around here would spray and vote against what's said in the draft text, and now there isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian government has been completely uninterested, since it was formed, first what you called a transitional one, and now this one, which turned out to be 100 days, is completely uninterested in the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. She didn't use her finger to fix the situation. There are Serbs in an increasingly difficult position, here poor people come, to Belgrade, families of kidnapped, kidnapped Serbs, seeking admission to the Serbian government. In the government, no minister will take them in, they're having a fight from the merciless to the unloved. Nothing the Serbian government has done to reveal the fate of those Serbs, which we all unfortunately assume has long been liquidated. And on the other hand, several hundred proven Cypriot terrorists are released from prison, allegedly due to lack of evidence, are mass releases. At the same time, several hundred Serbian officers and soldiers for alleged crimes are being prosecuted and many proceedings are being initiated, as we have learned, against Serb police officers. How do you coordinate those two things - on the one hand, you have terrorists, who continue to kill Serbs, you let them out of prison, and on the other hand you have Serbs who fought terrorism, defending their country. Every missing Shiptar was immediately known where, somewhere in a Serbian prison, the lists were made, and those Shiptari kept their head alive, they got out of prison well, so fat, fed, because their food in prisons was better than our workers in most of the cities in Serbia. They're getting out of jail, and what about the kidnapped Serbs? They've got every lead on them. You think the Western forces don't know what happened to those kidnapped Serbs? All Americans know, for every fate they know, to detail what has been done. They will not say, for they are allies of the Shiparas, they are enemies of the Serbian people, and you are so condescendingly acting as authority, that you meet their every request, whatever they ask. You see, you have a new ambassador to Washington, Milan St. Adversaries. Only two statements have been made so far -- he guaranteed to the US public that Milosevic would be arrested by March 31st and he guarantees that he will remain in prison for the rest of his life. Is this Milan St. Protic went out somewhere to talk about Kosovo's problem and the situation of Serbs and other national and religious minorities in Kosovo and Metohija? Never. Has anyone ever run it anywhere from the current leaders of the Serbian government, from the federal level? That, Mr. DOS, is absolutely of no interest to you. You would now be a little bit like this, if the eyes of the public were clouded, to adopt this mild resolution, and tomorrow, whatever Hackerup prescribed, the final fact. You see, they have already started setting up customs barriers at the administrative border of Kosovo and the rest of Serbia. And now, DOS claims he hasn't been consulted. We watched on TV a statement by Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who said he was consulted, with the purpose being to prevent smuggling, so now he will prevent the occupation of goods from Serbia to Kosovo and Metohija. What kind of smuggling is that? If our customs are working at the borders of Serbia and the SRJ, then there is no internal smuggling. What can be sold in Serbia, it is perfectly legal to sell in both Kosovo and Metohija. You saw, and federal finance minister Pesic made a statement saying they agreed from the federal government to introduce taxes and excise taxes and not customs duties. It's not a neck. It's a neck. What does that mean? Give them permission to introduce taxes and excise duties and not give them permission to impose customs duties? There's no big difference. That's the essence of your policy. You know that's where you overstepped and now you'd somehow step back, not eat onion, or smell onion. You've been campaigning for months how our security forces are returning to Zone A, Zone C, Zone D, in that so-called area. The protection belt between Kosovo and Metohija and the rest of Serbia. Well, our forces were always in zone A, and zone C, and zone B, although there were few and limited in the weapons they could use. And in Area B, what you're preparing -- you're preparing for the Shyptari to have their own police force, the proportional structure of the population, which means that in Preshevo, we'd be the Shiptari of the police. You are preparing, instead of that protection zone in the Presevo and Bujanovac belt, which has already been kidnapped by the Cypriot terrorists, to hand over the entire municipalities, because when the police in Presevo are drawn up by the national structure, the proportional structure of the population, then the Shipari will rule the entire municipality and their police patrols will be on the Vranje-Kumanovo-Skopla highway. That's the point. You're about to give it to them. You are now making up for the damage to every Shiptar who, due to terrorist acts, has been denied for part of his property, and did you do it for some Serbian refugee? Did you do it for the Serbs? We saw you cut some of the money in the budget for Serbs, the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You are now concerned about other people's concerns, to court your Western employers, and not to worry about your own people. That's the essence of your policy. You have another strong lever to stop all of what Hans Hackerup is preparing for tomorrow (if that's what it's called), you have a strong lever, you have a strong opportunity. Threaten NATO's pact that you will voluntarily leave power if Hackerup adopts this decree that he has announced. Well, then you'll scare the NATO Pact, and there's a possibility that NATO's pact will drop, just like that. I know you won't do it. This may look like some kind of inappropriate joke to me, but it's the only way to stop what you haven't stopped yet. You've never insisted on strict implementation of Security Council Resolution 1244, so-called Coumanian agreement. You know, earlier Milosevic at least played to prepare a unit, 1,000 soldiers and police officers, so he lined them up, so he made it clear that the Serbs hadn't given it up, and you don't insist on it either. You never asked for it, you never asked for it, and nothing can be done in Kosovo and Metohija until the resolution is completed. Nothing else can be done. They reject the resolution, because they don't need that resolution anymore, because you came to power. They also reject the Dayton Agreement on Bosnia and Herzegovina, as soon as people such as Milorad Dodik and Biljana Plasic came to power. On the case, Biljana Plavsic, they also show how grateful they are for their allies' long journey. At one point, they couldn't break up the Republika Srpska without it, and in gratitude, there it is in front of The Hague tribunal. That's what's gonna happen to you. And among you there are many who will hunt for The Hague tribunal, there are many who will hunt for crime, as they later pointed out to Mila Djukanovic, and they are ruthless in their politics. You need to understand that we don't have allies in the West, that we don't have friends in the West, that we'll never get those six billion dollars we've been promised. We're in a situation where we have to rely on our own forces. To rely on their own forces, the political position of the current government must be reconsidered. You can laugh until you're willing, because you're actually showing that you're absolutely not interested in the fate of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5529	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5530	You can call on history now. I expect it. From King Alexander, through regent Paul, Josip Broz Tito, to Slobodan Milosevic, there were many and many conscious and unconscious wrong moves. That was a lot. You will find many historical mistakes there. But now you're in power and leave history, you can only use it as a lesson, as a lesson not to repeat mistakes. Now you show me how much you know and how capable you are. Why does NATO's pact now continue to break up Serbia, when you came to power and the whole world under their control rejoiced with their victory in the elections, with little votes and even more automatic rifles? Why now? What's the problem? On the other hand, by carrying out such a policy, you in Serbia are establishing total lawlessness, even lawlessness in this National Assembly, in a senseless violation of the Rules of Procedure, establishing the tyranny of the parliamentary majority. You act and fight crime and this fight is led by one Dusan Mihajlovic. It's tragic, it's something terrible. To make things better, to get things in place, you need to make it clear whether you are ready for decisive moves to preserve Kosovo and Metohija or not? The only decisive move today, in the weather extortion, is to threaten the Americans, that you all withdraw from power and all of you leave if Hackerup implements his decree. I guarantee you that Hackerup will immediately change his position, withdraw his decree and start talking, negotiating, stretching, looking for another variant, etc. You're so precious to NATO's pact that it will surely give in to your blackmail. I call upon you only once in your life to dissipate and say that you will not oppose your people, that you will not object to the interests of your country, that you do not care so much for authority that you throw people and the state at your feet. Spread out, show it, and your success is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5531	May I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5532	Because of the public following this debate, I want to make a few corrections, correct a few misinformations that were sent from this pay phone and explain the real reason why one part of the text of the resolution, which came yesterday as a proposal to the government, was left out. That part contains nothing but convincing what the Albanians want. The resolution of the Serbian congregation should not contain any persuasion of what anyone else wants, but should list what we want. Whoever wants to explain what the Albanians want, go to the Albanian assembly and vote there for a resolution of what they want. From what our representatives in this commission have taxed on what they want, it's clear what they don't want. Anyone who is well-intentioned and reasonable from what the Serbs want can also see what they will not. You don't have to list with what they want and what they don't want. That was the only reason. Of course, we may not all be as brave as Mr. Seselj, but we're not so many cowards as we think our right is and what we think we can do. It is incorrect that at any time and anywhere I have said that I or any member of the government has been consulted on the introduction of customs checkpoints by UNMIK. I said I was consulted by the Federal Customs Administration, the Yugoslav Federal Customs Administration, to introduce control of the accession to Montenegro and Kosovo and Metohija. The explanation they gave was that a smuggling of cigarettes and oil is moving along these roads, and secondly, that one part of the products that are subsidized in Serbia, which is flour and some other products, go to Kosovo and Metohija to continue to go to Albania and Macedonia, as a subject of smuggling and black trade. They asked me, and I said -- if it's in the interest of stopping this smuggling, to control the goods going that way, Montenegro -- Kosovo and Metohija, then we agree. But the Federal Customs Administration is not UNMIK. For the Serbian government, federal customs administration is a legal body of the federal state. If for someone the Federal Customs Administration represents a foreign force, then he needs to think a little bit about his categories. Third, the proposal Mr. Seselj made on behalf of his party has caused laughter, but he is a little more reasonable than the earlier proposals Mr. Seselj made in similar situations. I will remind you, he suggested that we introduce ourselves into our regular SOP-Serbian Liberation Dog, which recognises all non-Serbs, bites them and solves the national and state problem of Serbs and in Bosnia, both in Croatia and probably in Kosovo. As far as Kosovo is concerned, he suggested that the Cossacks engage. In this congregation, he promised that when his Cossacks and his Chets were pounding into drums, all the Shiplars across the Curse and other mountains would run away, I don't know where. So this present proposal isn't as funny as it was before. Mr. Seselj still has a chance to fix himself, the years are still ahead of him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5533	Mr. Seselj, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice that Mr. Djindjic lost his temper earlier today. Here, I'm offering you a social game with far-reaching consequences. Let Djindjic find when I promised that dog, SOP or Kozaka in Kosovo, so I'm definitely pulling out of politics. If Djindjic doesn't find it, he will resign as Prime Minister. I never said anywhere that we would bring this dog, a Serb defence dog, to Kosovo, to Kosovo, nor to Bosnia, nor to Kosovo, and I never promised to bring Kozake to Kosovo. So Zoran Djindjic is lying. If there's even a little chance of proving his lies, my promise remains and I'll keep it. I invite him, if he can't prove his lie, to resign. It's the simplest solution. Enough lies, even from Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5535	Mr. Ivkovic, the replica, so that, if we may, we can return to the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are gathered here today in this assembly to discuss a few national issues. We must, all of us here in this room, no matter who does what, find a minimum of national interests and, uniquely from this room, go to the message and to the international community, above all, and to Mr Hackerup, what we are looking for in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I think this kind of discussion, which has been so far, should be interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5537	I only have to remind the MPs briefly, so let's continue the debate, that we didn't have an agreement yesterday on the length of this debate, and we didn't restrict or reduce today. So, the debate lasts for 10 minutes, but regardless, given the subject at issue, even though every debater has the right to 10 minutes, I ask you to be tolerant if we cross a minute, two, we will not violate yesterday's agreement, and we will not interfere with the work of the Assembly, nor will we delay making the decision that we have to make. Please, a little tolerance. The word has a National MP, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5538	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of the Soviet Union, I am expressing my satisfaction in holding this extraordinary emergency session on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. The SJJ has been asking for this topic to be put on the agenda since the first day, and we have asked even if it were to try UNMIK's permission to hold some of the sessions in Pristina, thus showing that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia-Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, some have called me a demagogue, but I claim it is not demagogy, but it is an integral part of both Serbia and Yugoslavia. Today we are talking about Kosovo and Metohija, because it really burned to the fingernails. These days will be most likely, contrary to all our wishes, regardless of whether it is a position or an opposition, the constitution has been adopted and the president of Kosovo and Metohija will likely be nominated in the constitution. It will not be Mr. Kostunica, nor Mr. Djindjic, nor Mr. Trajkovic, but it will most likely be Ibrahim Rugova or Hashim Thaci. Why did we lose Kosovo and Metohija? As early as 1992, SS President Zeljko Raznatovic Arkan asked the authorities then to send special military forces to the border with Albania to control, that is to say, prevent weapons, techniques and the insertion of terrorists from Albania. At that time, he also asked the assembly to send special police units to Kosovo and Metohija to deal with the conceptions of ballistic forces that later grew into the so-called KLA. However, this did not run into any echoes from previous authorities. Kosovo and Metohija are a problem that was abandoned, a problem that the previous government put under the carpet, a problem that then escalated to those limits when we could no longer control it and when the international community interfered. And one part of the international community recognized some of its interests in Kosovo and Metohija, and this is seen and proved by building a large military base Bonstil, one of the largest in Europe and the world. In fact, the real game is revealed, above all, by the United States and some other Western countries, that Kosovo and Metohija were not bombed because of the humanitarian disaster, because there was no humanitarian disaster, but later after KFOR and UNMIK arrived in Kosovo and Metohija. Their main goal was, and certainly today, to make Kosovo and Metohija a permanent, multi-protectorate, or military base to serve Americans and some other Western countries as military watchdogs towards the east, towards Russia and towards China. It's just moving on with the work, and it's on its way. We had a promise in the election campaign by DOS leaders that by overturning the Milosevic regime, the problem would be resolved and that full Resolution 1244 would be applied. Unfortunately, those who promised them this from the international community cheated on both them and us. It just happened a lot worse than it was before October 5th. Local elections have been held that cemented the existing population structure. All 30 municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija were defeated by Albanians. Customs are set. Now they want to impose some kind of legal framework, which is actually a constitution, and it's probably going to be called a temporary constitution. So, it's good that we're all together and it's good that we're all talking about it, and it's already time for this assembly to come forward on the Kosovo and Metohija issues. What happened in the meantime? Meanwhile, the killings of Serbs, the destruction of churches, cemeteries, 1,300 abducted and sorted Serbs and other non-Albanians have untraceablely disappeared and nothing before, nor has the current government done to resolve the problem. It is only today that it is placed on the agenda and it is good that even today it is put on the agenda. Why is Resolution 1244 not applicable? It's because it doesn't suit them, and especially it doesn't match the U.S. The return of VJ, one part and the work of Serbia's MUP, could also ensure the return of 350,000 displaced Serbs, Montenegrins, Gorans, Roma and other non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija. Only then could the right normal elections in Kosovo and Metohija be held. The relationship of the previous government and the relationship of the current government to those martyrs who lost everything in Kosovo and Metohija is almost the same. They, as refugees from Kosovo and Metohija without their own guilt, live in our country as citizens of the second or even third order. It should be requested that before the elections were held in Kosovo and Metohija, 250,000 foreign citizens from Albania who entered our territory freely after KFOR and UNMIK arrived and now live in Serbian apartments and houses. That the international community, in terms of donations, and on behalf of war damage done in Kosovo and Metohija and throughout Serbia, helps to build and restore Serbian houses and apartments that have been destroyed in Kosovo and Metohija, to help restore around 1,250 cultural historical monuments, including many monasteries, many churches, and many others. As far as this resolution is concerned, we received the text yesterday, and indeed the part that speaks of the Albanian side's intentions is missing in that text. I think that part should, however, remain, because it clearly provides that Albanians will, without any reason, be called a constitution or at least a provisional constitution, that Kosovo has a president, that a referendum on self-determination is foreseen, that the Assembly decides in all cases by simple majority, to establish an independent judicial system, with the Supreme Court at its head, that there is a Constitutional Court, etc. I think that should remain, simply to draw attention to those in the international community and to the entire Serbian people what Albanians really want, because believe me, many in Serbia do not have a clear picture of what Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija actually want to impose on us the adoption of such a legal framework. This legal framework is a term that I personally don't like, because it says in our Constitution, which is Article 110. Serbia's constitution that the highest legal act is the province's statute, not the legal framework. Since this is foreseen by Resolution 1244, it may well have to be accepted and that is not the biggest problem. What's the problem here is that we simply don't know who Serbian representatives are and who the Serbian side has given amendments to the resolution. Can we give them legitimacy because we as the Assembly did not choose them and, as far as I know, the Serbian government did not delegate them as our representatives? They were there a long time ago, they were probably appointed there by Vladika Artemia or by some Serbian national councils. In any case, the question is how much can we today adopt the amendments that they, as representatives who do not have our legitimacy, have submitted. I have no doubt of their good intentions, but I do believe that the amendments they have submitted should be strengthened or the resolution should be tightened or adopted in principle without amendments. Since a meeting of the heads of parliament will be held afterwards, I hope we can agree on either one or the other. What's the problem here? The problem is that it says that the Kosovo Assembly will consist of 120 MPs, 30 representing national ethnic communities, 10 Serbs, 10 Albanians and 10 others. It is not clear here whether it means that the other 90 will be elected by the Assembly in the free elections, MPs, or only 10 Serbs of 120 MPs, 10 Muslims, Roma, Gorans and others, and even 100 Albanians. This is not a real picture of the population in Kosovo and Metohija. It's one trap we can't get into. Furthermore, it is said here that a special decision-making process is envisaged when it comes to the protection of national interests, and these issues cannot be decided by the assembly majority, but by the reconciliation process, as proposed. It's not clear here what the alignment procedure is. I suggest that it be, that national interests cannot be discussed without consensus, without the consent of each ethnic community, which is represented in such a assembly. Secondly, there is always talk of the government, the Constitution of the RS member 111-the highest executive body in the provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija is an executively larger one. Why would we support the term of government? It immediately associates with statehood and the state. That is why I propose that we respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the SRJ and that it stands to the greater execution, instead of the government. Secondly, it says here that the justice system of Kosovo and Metohija remains fully in the jurisdiction of the special representative and operates under existing regulations. Why? Why not operate under regulations and in accordance with the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. These are some principled remarks. After all, we don't even know what the overall legal framework for solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija looks like, because we didn't get it, and I don't know if the government got it, the MPs didn't get it and it's very hard to vote for these amendments. We will support the resolution as a Party of Serbian Unity, because it is the first step in this new government and this new assembly to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija, but we are asking that the meeting be precisely regulated as the amendments are and how they should be read. I am expressing my satisfaction once again that we all met to discuss this problem and please talk only about Kosovo and Metohija today. We will continue our debate in a few days, we will continue our disputes, we will continue our fighting, but today we do not have the right as MPs of the Serbian Parliament to discuss something else, but only Kosovo and Metohija. I would like to say once again that today we should put our party interests aside, forget who the position is, and who the opposition is, that today as Serbs, as citizens of this country, we will bring a resolution which, in my opinion, will be much more stringent than this, to direct it to the international community first of all, because it is up to them, because it depends primarily on how we will solve the problem in Kosovo and Metohija and that Kosovo and Metohija will remain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia forever and the composition of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Thank you for your attention and understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5539	Dragisa Djokovic's MP has the word, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5540	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected friends, the situation and the moment we are in are too serious, so I would really appeal as a man who comes from Kosovo, from Kosovo Mitrovica, to anything to take this debate today, this debate today. This is not an opportunity for verbal exhibitionism, nor for proof of oratoryism. We're going to have a session of the Assembly where we're going to talk, hopefully a little longer about what who did and how he worked, if anyone contributed to what and how it's done so far. But what is now, and I absolutely support the previous speakers, primarily, is that the moment is very serious and that today we will adopt a resolution that goes towards who it should go towards, which is international factors, international factors and the international community. Such a resolution must be serious and such a resolution must show that we as a Assembly, as a people and what it does, represented by that people and that assembly, its government and its ministries, are quite responsible and quite serious people and that we want to speak out loud and show that we are to preserve the Serbian space in Kosovo and Metohija, to preserve the Serb entity, Serbian institutions and to respect Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, we are coming into an absurd situation, so the Serbs defend Resolution 1244, the Serbs advocate respect for that resolution, and whoever is responsible for implementing that resolution, who is obliged to implement that resolution and to respect it, which is the international community, does not respect it and does not respect that resolution. The breach of the resolution began with the arrival of Bernard Kouchner at the head of the mission, because what it came down to was the genocide of the Serbs. I won't remind you, I won't tell you how many Serbs have been expelled from Kosovo, how kidnapped it is, how much misery, misery, tragedy and misfortune the families of those missing, kidnapped, who don't know any sign of a voice. I won't remind you how many displaced, exiled, how evil was inflicted on the Serbs in that space. It's just all bordering on one genocide. The work, dear friends, is being done by the international community and Albanians. Albanians, it's nothing new, they want their country, they want Kosovo as a state. They don't want anything in common with Serbs, they don't want anything in common with Yugoslavia, they simply want their country, their Kosovo, even without the name Metohija and what they want is nothing new. We knew it, Serbs always knew it. Some did not want to accept it, some were for brotherhood and unity or for other forms and phrases, however, Serbs know what Albanians want. The problem here is that the international community is the one helping Albanians in its genocide goal, which supports their genocide idea. Gentlemen, I will remind you that Bernard Kouchner boasted at the departure of his mission that hundreds of thousands of houses were made in Kosovo. I can tell you that no house was built by any Serb or any non-Albanian community. Everything that has been done has been done for the Albanians. It's just that everything that's done is done in that direction. Mr. Kouchner opposed the resolution on rights in Kosovo, introduced and seduced all moves and measures to break ties between Yugoslavia and Serbia and the province of Kosovo. To that end, he also introduced a special currency in Kosovo, then a special label, registration plates special, other services that were never characteristic of any autonomy, not to mention that there is a special Telekom, a railway system and everything else. Simply all, because they well know that the fewer Serbs in Kosovo and the less Serbian and Yugoslav states, the more independence and more independence of Kosovo. What do we do? It's up to us to fight it all and stand up to it. I think we have one better position today, one more positive position and we have to take advantage of it. We must send a clear message to the international community that it is obliged to respect the pesolution it has brought itself, that it is simply the Security Council whose resolution must be respected and respected, and if it is said that Kosovo will get autonomy status, autonomy is one thing and the state is another. Therefore, what is the first obligation of the resolution before any frameworks, choices and others is freedom of movement and freedom of life down there. I can tell you, and you know it, someone less, someone more, that Serbs in isolated environments -- and unfortunately I don't like the term enclaves, because we of the people are reduced to enclaves, which is sad and tragic -- live very hard. They have freedom only to the doorstep, they have no freedom to go to their fields, to their forests. They can't process their own estates, cut down their forests and use their pastures and everything. It's no freedom, it's no life. Someone said something about second-class citizens. It's unfortunately out of each row. The first obligation of the international community, which we must constantly remind ourselves of, and that will be the obligation of our governments, our ministers, our ministries and our diplomacy, to remind them that it is their obligation under the resolution to enable everyone in Kosovo and to guarantee them and ensure security. Simply, what's sad is the fact that UNMIK and KFOR don't want Serbs back, that they wanted them back, they would have brought them back. In 15 days, in one stampede, they allowed as many Albanians as they had returned to Kosovo and a few dozen or hundreds of thousands of those who had never lived in Kosovo to harass, burn, and burn in Serbian space. Simply, you have an example that last year, at Easter, Mr Bernard Kouchner was formed by the Returning of Serbs Committee, led by four main pillars in Kosovo. So, he's as UNMIK chief, then the head of the OSCE, then the head of KFOR and the head of UNHCR, with further enlargements, that committee hasn't brought anyone back to Kosovo, it's not because it doesn't want to. You know what they tell us? You have to talk to the Albanians to get the Serbs back. If we could have talked to Albanians, that is, if the Albanians wanted to talk to the Serbs and wanted to live with the Serbs, it would not have come to this, there would be no need for an international mission to Kosovo. Simply, gentlemen of KFOR and the international community, Mr Hackerup, you did not ask Serbs if they wanted to return Albanians, but you already bombed Serbs and destroyed Serbia in order to allegedly bring Albanians back to Kosovo and other things. It was your right then, your choice, and we won't talk about it. History and other things will give their word, but we ask you to enable the return of Serbs and that is your primary duty, your task. The mission means international missions and Mr. Hackerup, who heads the mission. His task is not to make Kosovo independent, to create all the frameworks for this independence, to limit this latest process, simply what was the procedure with customs and everything else. I can tell you that UNMIK is acting very incorrectly, that they, I won't use a harsh word, they're telling a lot of lies, they're bringing in and bringing in a lot of disinformation. Let me give you an example. If they came to you as some relevant Serbian representative and maybe had a cup of coffee or talked to you, as soon as they got to the doorknob, they'll tell you that they've made a deal that you may not have heard of, nor have you met at all. Therefore, they serve various lies, various lies, and that is our job to expose and avoid such provocations as they do and who are willing to do. They simply ran with their latest move to introduce customs. The thorn in their eye is a compact Serbian environment, northern Kosovo, the area of northern Kosovo, Kosovo and Metohija, and they, as they would say, wanted to come behind the back of Serbs, so they tried to fund the space as well as Merdare, a space, that is, the administrative line between the rest of Serbia and Kosovo and the Metohija on Merdar, to limit it to customs, which would fill the budget and from which they would, among other things, finance the Kosovo Protection Corps, because the work has spread, so it must act in the territory of southern Serbia, in the territory of Macedonia, so the money seems to run out for all these activities. Therefore, their move also proves how dishonest the international community is, how corrupt it is in its intentions and how incorrect it is. It is ours, once again, not to give them legitimacy in all their wrong intentions, in all their bad ideas, because we certainly as the responsible people, as responsible representatives, will not allow ourselves to be destroyed, to banish ourselves, and to sign some kind of death warrant ourselves. Don't let anyone, Serbs, be deceived in such elections, in such rural institutions, take part, so let it be what happens. Surely, without the return of Serbs, without guaranteed security and freedom of life for Serbs in such institutions, in such organisations of government or self-government we will certainly not participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5541	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5542	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs and respected members of the government, with regard to the resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the position of the Serbian people, as an SPS MP, I would like to keep your attention on two, in my opinion, extremely important elements, and for the resolution, but also for the overall situation in Kosovo and Metohija. First, it is a lack of respect, i.e. a systematic violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, adopted in June 1999, so two years ago. In this past time, the situation in Kosovo and Metohija has become more and more difficult, day by day. The main cause of this is the non-execution of any or almost none of the obligations undertaken by international security forces and members of the United Nations civilian mission, whose role is the authority, but also the responsibility, which is determined by Resolution 1244. The objectives set in Security Council Resolution are not met. A safe environment has not been established for refugee returns, and displaced persons in Kosovo and Metohija. In Kosovo and Metohija, there is no peace, security, tolerance, full freedom of movement for citizens who do not belong to the international forces or to the Albanian minority community. It is not possible to return, either free or safe, about 400,000 Serbs and non-Albanian ethnic, national communities living in that part of Serbia, which were under the terror of Albanian terrorists from Kosovo and Metohija, but also Albanian robbers who arrived from Albania and Macedonia, had to leave their homes. Their return is prevented, not only through physical violence against families, but through acts of terrorism in which the people, who want to return, or visit their neighbor or abandoned homes, die. And the few people left in Kosovo and Metohija are constantly exposed to persecution and violence. KFOR and UNMIK's reaction is to this end inadequate and impersonal to essentially encourage terrorist acts and terrorists to launch new attacks and persecutions on the Serbian and non-Albanian lives. This is also contributed by UNMIK's well-known so-called confidence measures that bring unrest between the remaining Serbian and non-Albanian lives and give wings to Albanian terrorists. In Kosovo and Metohija, smuggling, drug trafficking, weapons, everything is under the auspices of KFOR and UNMIK. The disarmament and destruction of the terrorist Liberation Army of Kosovo and other Albanian armed groups has not been carried out. However, officially, yes, but unofficially not, because they continued their terrorist actions, according to anyone who disagrees with their demands, which is independent Kosovo and Metohija. On the contrary, we are witnessing that terrorist centres have been established and that there has been a spillover of terrorism to southern Serbia and Macedonia. About 250,000 Albanians, citizens of the Republic of Albania and Macedonia who entered the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia illegally, have not been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija because of an unsecured state border. A number of Yugoslav and Serbian personnel in Kosovo and Metohija are not allowed to return, even two years after international representatives arrive and take responsibility for the security situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Let me remind you, in Annex 2. Resolution 1244, item 6, stood -- after the withdrawal, the agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian personnel would be allowed to return and perform the following functions -- to link with the international civilian mission and international security presence, marking, i.e. cleaning minefields, maintaining presence at Serbian cultural heritage sites and maintaining presence at the main border crossings. The situation in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. the lack of international representatives, also reflects that more than 1,300 Serbs have been kidnapped since their arrival, whose fate is unknown. Before they arrived, according to official data, the number was about 300 people. The image of Kosovo and Metohija additionally completes the data from about 50,000 demolled to the foundations, burned, destroyed or temporarily occupied houses. International representatives are not at all trying to clarify all these elements. In such conditions, international representatives have conducted an open audit of Resolution 1244 without the consent of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and without the consent of the Security Council, led primarily by the interests of forces that have artificially caused problems in Kosovo and Metohija, thus creating a cause for armed aggression on our country. UNMIK administrators, both former and current, continue the policy of the finished act, depicted in pressures on the Serbian side to accept fundamentally unacceptable conditions to regulate relations in Kosovo and Metohija. Disrespect for the sovereignty of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia through decision-making to introduce customs, confiscation of state property and national wealth, as well as through a number of other procedures, international administrators make and impose solutions that do not mean equality and equality of citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, respect for basic minority rights, are already the majorisation of the Albanian national community over all others, as well as the creation of a new state of Kosovo. The previous local elections, as well as the next ones to be announced, are not and will not solve any of the above issues. On the contrary, they are in the role of creating a vision of democracy, which corresponds exclusively to the interests of the Albanian national community, as well as the work of the international community. Secondly, the past period has confirmed the full justification of the SPS's views that the Albanian issue is neither democratic nor minority, nor the issue of human rights, but exclusively territorial and state issues. It is not democratic, according to individuals from our country and abroad, because today it is clear that under conditions of a different political environment in Serbia and Yugoslavia, created from the autumn of last year, Albania's national minority, the national community, has not revised its requirements. On the contrary, they became even more radical. The issue is not even minority, as representatives of the Albanian minority community enjoyed a high degree of minority rights in Serbia and the SRJ. The problem was, in fact, in a selective approach by the Albanian national community itself to the content of minority rights and to disrespect the generally accepted principles of loyalty to the country in which they live. Members of the Albanian community used only those rights of direct benefit, such as pensions, health insurance, social security funds, travel documents, the possibility of carrying out trade, while all of their obligations to the state, such as taxes, contributions and other, or any measure that meant recognition of the statehood of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ, were unacceptable to them. The initial ignoring and boycotting of the work of the state authorities of Serbia and the SRJ by members of the Albanian minority has been extended to disrespect the law, to attempt to create parallel state bodies, to internationalise its minority issue, and ended with an open demand to create an independent state, a requirement that has been followed by terrorist actions, killing members of other peoples and minorities and their banishment of Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, with the support of one part of the international community. The issue is both territorial and stately because it seeks to realize the eternal dream of the Albanian people about the creation of a major Albanian state in the Balkans. First, in fact, another independent Albanian state, then after unification with the queen. Representatives of political parties in Kosovo and Metohija do not differ in their final goal -- independent Kosovo. Thaci and Rugova are just different in the way that they achieve that goal, whether it's the force of arms or so on. walk through institutions. My fellow MPs, in the end, in relation to advanced assessments, I believe that the solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija can only be sought on the line of strict respect for Security Council Resolution 1244. The international community should finally start to respect the decisions it makes. Under this I mean that under the conditions of peace security in Kosovo and Metohija, refugee and displaced persons, rule of law, apply civilizational experience in resolving the minority issue. No less than that. UNMIK must not make unilateral arbitrary decisions, unknown in the practice of man-made politics, favouring a minority community, and to the detriment of all other citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. In particular, it does not make decisions that do not mean significant self-government within the SRJ, as set out in Resolution 1244, which is actually the creation of a state in the country. The Security Council must clearly assess UNMIK and KFOR's work, their work must finally bring them into line with Resolution 1244 and the achieved standards of minority policy in the world. Otherwise, if that is not the case, this issue will remain an on-call issue not only in Serbia and the SRJ, but also in the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5543	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5544	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for every Serbian patriot, for those who care about their people and their homeland, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a matter of the highest state and national interest, especially for each of us who have warned about the fact that if the Americans and their Western allies follow politics towards Serbia and the Serb people from the moment they began to take part in our territory, began from the Republika Srpska, part of Republika Srpska, and then came Kosovo and Metohija. I will remind you of the fact that only SRS MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia after 78 days in the history of human civilization of unremembered aggression against our country and our people voted against the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija, against Resolution 1244 and so on. The Kumanov Agreement. It is clear to everyone here today when we have in front of us this government's motion for a resolution, that in terms of Kosovo and Metohija it is in the work of hegemonism in its most miraculous and most developed form. What are the consequences of the two-year occupation of the century-old Serbian country, Kosovo and Metohija? The fact that the remaining Serbs, living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, are a persecuted and completely deposed people, as well as the fact that you, in the resolution you propose, are requesting UNMIK, which, along with KFOR, is responsible for all that is happening to Serbs there, to address the issue of the survival of our people in the southern Serbian province. You should know that UNMIK is the brains of the Ship's terrorists, of the Ship's bandits, of the pirates, of the murderers of Serbian children, and they work together with the Shiptars on a joint plan of Kosovo's secession and Metohija. In fact, their goal is to pull out our southern province's state-level legal status, all because of the project we've been on for years, through our exhibitions and through the true national policy of the SRS, we've indicated that their goal is to realise their project of great Albania. Even the tragic Resolution 1244 of the United Nations Security Council, which remains only a dead letter on paper, predicts that Kosovo and Metohija remain in the form of SRJ. We have these days by occupiers and their officials the ultimate imposition of will and what, at the demands of Shipara Hans Hackerup, intends to do tomorrow, which is imposing the electoral process on Serbs and so on. The legal framework, which is nothing more than a Shiparian constitution, precisely by their own affinities and by their standards, and the Western forces led by the Americans in the war with the Cypriot terrorists show that, with the help of NATO, they are subserving from Serbia and the SRJ, officials from the DOS government at the federal and republican level, through the finding of obedient Serbs, ending what they had long planned, directing some elections in Kosovo and Metohija, and contrary to our Constitution and all applicable legal regulations, bring this so-called so-called. legal framework. What helped them, and it didn't all happen overnight, and we've been warning you all these years, that they're now one step closer to their goal? How much tomorrow, by its will, without appeal, without deafening to everything that the Serbian patriots have been calling for, and even this resolution, so pale, for which we Serbian radicals will vote, Hans Hackerup will do what NATO's intention and intention is to make a pact. But what helped them to come into a situation like this, to perform like this, and to do what I intend to do? First of all, it is an anti-state foreign policy, an extremely anti-Serbian foreign policy, which the regime at the republic and federal level is conducting and justifying all Mondialist crimes committed against the Serbian state and the Serb people. Then, horrifying the level of humility that representatives of your DOS regime have shown to Western officials, who, several months ago, immediately after your takeover of power at the federal and republican level, have lined up your vice-president of the government, your foreign minister under the neo-Nazi sign of the NATO military pact in Brussels, as obedient students. The entire DOS policy, which will cause an even greater tragedy and finally achieve the goal of Americans and their allies to tear Kosovo and Metohija out of Serbia-SRJ, that pseudo democracy, with intellectually and morally inferior promoters, the way you treat your employers, is in fact the task of suppressing Serbia's national consciousness and the task of ending the country's legal continuity in the eternal Serbian territory. You are aware of all the obligations you have towards your Western mentors, with whose abundant assistance, and financial, and each other, you came to power in September, that is, in December of last year, and you are now in the most tragic and unscrupulous way manipulating the tragedy of the troubled Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. The tragedy of our people is being pushed into the trap and ignored by ministers in the DOS government of the national sunflower, I would not only say so, but it is also seen by the vast majority of Serbian citizens. And the ministers are deafening it all, like Mr. Vladan Batic, who so nervously, as I speak these facts, is looking for a word to discuss, which neglects all these sufferings and true and human tragedies of the families of the kidnapped, missing, kidnapped Serbs. You haven't had time to receive them, and you're just showing up as some kind of conceits over their tragic fate, and in all that time you're making such statements, like Minister Batic himself, that Serbia will no longer be a collection centre for war criminals, he just didn't say what war criminals are for him. For him, are war criminals Serbian heroes, Serbian heroes, who have defended the Serbian territory, Serbian women and non-heroes, from the Shiptar slayers, as you call them mildly? Are those who opposed the aggression of the NATO Pact? Apparently they are, because the very fact that you want to judge members of the Yugoslav Army, along with your NATO allies, for what they did during the aggression, that you do not allow them to get close to the so-called. The ground security zone, it's talking about what your real intentions are. On the other hand, one logical question arises, after all of this and in a situation like this and under such a threat by the occupiers, whose only direct perpetrator is Hans Hackerup, and what is the DOS government, led by you, Mr Djindjic, has done to protect the troubled people of Kosovo and Metohija, what have you done to restore sovereignty, which the president of your parliamentary group has said exists, that in the formal sense alone, the NATO Pact is located in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and what you have done to prevent at all the possibility that the Shiptari are now ghastly talking about the adoption of the constitution, about the president of Kosovo and Metohija, etc.? Nothing, you didn't do anything, except you're very obedient and very cooperative, as you intend to continue to do, you said you didn't want to confront what you're saying, so-called. to the international community. You're using that term, which is actually Americans, our enemies, Western forces. And what did you do to improve the position of the families who stayed there to live? Do you wonder what it's like for Serbs in Kosovo Mitrovica, do you wonder what it's like for Serbs in Gracanica, do you wonder what it's like for Serbs in Kosovo Pomoravlje, where daily the cry comes from the village of Šilovo, Kusca, Ranilug, etc. around Gjilan, where is the belt of those brave Serbs who want to stay in their hearths? How do they, left without basic provisions of life, left at the mercy of the Shiptar terrorists, who daily, in the field with the NATO Pact, face Serb territory? You're saying it needs to be abolished so-called. Kosovo Protection Corps, and only until a few months ago or two years ago, you had only words of praise for so-called. UNMIK, and for the coming of strength, as you said, the UN, and for the formation of that so-called "un." The Kosovo Protection Corps, which we immediately said was nothing more than a clean legalisation of Shipar banditism and terrorism, because these same terrorists now dressed as other uniforms, shoulder to shoulder with the NATO Pact, continued to work on the process of destroying Serbia and the Serb people. You have done nothing, only by all of your policies you have encouraged the American administration and Hans Hackerup, who is just their clerk, to establish what he has set down below, to express such an ultimatum and to make, in fact, the institutional separation of Kosovo and Metohija from the composition of Serbia and the SRJ from that new legal framework, as they call it, in the true sense. In the end, I'd say what's tragic and what's happening in our southern province isn't since yesterday. That's what the Americans planned for 10 years. Their wish was to bring to power in Serbia and the SRJ with such a degree of serviality. And what the NATO Pact failed to do through aggression failed to do through the 10-year exhaustion and destruction of our country and people through sanctions, and eventually through bloody bombing, they succeeded in their hellish plan at the end of last year by bringing you into power from the DOS political group. In the issues of southern Serbia, the Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja municipalities, which is the second item in line, and parallel to the Americans and NATO pact, you have shown that you do not care at all whether those three southern Serb municipalities remain in the composition of our state. And the question is -- since you do not want to accept the only normal proposal that Dr Vojislav Seselj has given you -- what will happen tomorrow, as after adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of this pale resolution, Hans Hackerup, an official of the US administration, says decisively no. How will you stand before the people of Serbia who have suffered, who has remained to live on the eternal Serbian country, how will you go before the citizens of Serbia and all those voters, whom you have firmly promised to establish complete sovereignty and to return Serbs to your hearths in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? Vojislav Seselj is looking for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5546	Mr. President, according to the Rules of Procedure, every minister has the right to speak whenever he calls and has the advantage of receiving words, but every MP has the right to speak about every item of the agenda. This session is something specific, you have reached an agreement with the heads of parliament, except for the SRS, that special rules apply at this session. We subsequently accepted it, counting that it would be better to hold that session and it would be concise, so it would end in a shorter period of time, in one day, to adopt this resolution, because we were brought into a time teat. That means, if the parliamentary groups are limited to only three MPs, and that the government is represented by Zoran Djindjic, that you do not give a word to other ministers. If you give the word to other ministers, then all 23 MPs of the SRS will come forward and you will have to give them a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. I call upon you to honor this agreement that you have initiated, which we later agreed to, and you know how we agreed. If you break it, then all MPs will come forward and you must not give them a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5547	You are right, when I said and asked for the tolerance of the MPs for overexposure, like you, with Mrs. Jovanovic, who overstepped three-and-a-half minutes, we prayed for the tolerance of the MPs. If you point out that this is a violation of the agreement, and formally it is, I will not give Mr. Batic a word. If you feel that this is deviating from the agreement, then we will continue the discussion in accordance with the established order. But then I ask the other MPs to be so correct, that they stick to the times that are scheduled for discussion, which I also tolerated in excess. The word is by MP Ljubomir Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5548	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the government, I am an MP from the Soviet Union, Ljubomir Mirkovic, from Peći, from Kosovo and Metohija. I escaped with my entire family and all my fellow citizens in front of the Shiptar terror. My distinguished colleagues from Kosovo, Marko Jaksic, Ljubisa Markovic and Vuk Antonijevic were fortunate to live in Kosovo Mitrovica, whose northern part is under Serb control, and we from Metohija had to leave our homes. I had everything in the oven, my house, my job, my joints. All I had was my honest work. Today, with my five-member family, I live in private, as a tenant. Many of my countrymen live much worse than I do, live in sports halls, in collective accommodations, many are jobless, and many live only on humanitarian aid, which comes messyly. For the previous communist rule, since 1999, we have been citizens of the second order, without human rights. Unfortunately, neither does this new government, which calls itself democratic, takes much more care of us, as if we were not Serbs, as if we had left Kosovo and Metohija with our own will. There are about 350,000 Serb exiles, Montenegrins, Roma and other non-Albanian living. We all feel that we are on the burden of Serbian authorities and citizens of Serbia. My party, the Party of Serbian Unity, and my President Borislav Pelevic, have proposed that I be a national MP, because they wanted this martyrly and evading Serbian people to have a representative in the Serbian parliament. Brothers of Serbs, do not let the Shipari and NATO pact bring the constitution, because the constitution means independent Kosovo. Do not let Kosovo have its president, because it will be Ibrahim Rugova, or worse, Hashim Thaci. Don't forget us, because we're Serbs, too, because we only have one wish, to return to our homes, to repair our ruined and burned houses, to rebuild Orthodox churches, to repair the tombstones that the Scorpions have destroyed. We just want to be on our own, to be ordinary citizens of our only country of Serbia, because we have no other country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5549	The People's Messenger Momcilo Trajkovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5550	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, I am the initiator of holding meetings of the assembly, both federal and republican, and one and the other government, as a national MP and as president of the Federal Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and as one of the people in charge of co-operation with the international community under Resolution 1244, it proposes, but also informs the federal government of the implementation processes of Resolution 1244. I have talked about Kosovo and Metohija having to be discussed before, problems must be solved because they are burning. The only thing that does today is the sovereignty of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia in that territory are the remaining Serbs. It's a good thing we're talking today, the occasion is very important, since it is related to all other processes and all our other demands. The international community, in fact, aims to bring legal frameworks and by adopting legal frameworks conditions all other processes, including the issue of security. They say -- if we bring legal frameworks, if we establish democratic institutions, then security will be different, flows will merge into political and self-government institutions, and then return and find kidnapped and missing persons, economic development, etc. I think this is an imminent process, and the easiest thing to do right now is to charge ourselves here. I'll avoid accusing you. After nine years, I entered this pay phone and nine years ago, about nine years ago, I warned that these processes would happen and that we would be in the position we are in today. But I am glad that we still have the same goal, to do everything we can to prevent, to warn and to stop the adoption of a legal framework that will cause an even greater crisis, to insist that the process of the talks, the agreements on the legal framework, which are in Resolution 1244, be put back in the framework of Resolution 1244. There are three factors in the crisis, i.e. three factors that should solve the crisis. Unfortunately, some of the factors that need to solve the crisis have become factors of the crisis. Not to mention Albanian separatists, who want to achieve their goal, which is an independent Kosovo, using the international community, using all the policies so far that have not found a response to Serbian-Albanian relations, to complete and achieve their goal today. Unfortunately, the international community has also become a factor in the crisis. She's been a factor of crisis ever since the beginning. I'm not going to go into whether there's a intention, sure there are circles that want to achieve this goal, but the entire policy of the international community, since UNMIK and KFOR arrive, is based on so-called. An Albanian victim. And today it survives, while on the other hand we have an open Serbian sacrifice that pays every day. Here, yesterday, as I was coming from Kosovo and Metohija, I was informed that another victim had fallen in Vitina, that the Serb was drowned only because he was Serbian, and two days ago we had two victims. The international community still does not see the Serbian victim and is trying to find a solution to the Kosovo-Methochial crisis by satisfying the Albanian side. You see, we must openly say that we have arguments for it. It is good that this process has accelerated this way, because it is crucial for us, for democratic forces in Serbia, for our entire people and our country, that the international community once shows what it wants to end up. If it accepts such legal frameworks, if it continues to insist on them, it openly does not want peace in the Balkans, it openly does not want democratic peaceful and political means to resolve the problem. We have a big argument, with which we can stand before the international community, in front of the democratic forces in the world. Because it's not just those who conduct the international community's policies there. There are other circles in the international community that need to understand and know what it is. There are centres of power that use the position in Kosovo and Metohija to accomplish what they intended to accomplish. They apply the ethnic principle of resolving Kosovo's crisis. So, what's this about? Until now, they have done not to resolve the Kosovo issue or, as we say, the Kosovo-Methohic issue, but to resolve the Albanian issue, to satisfy the Albanian side. The finish on making this document shows it. So, they don't want to solve the Kosovo-Methochial issue, they want to create an Albanian society, and they invite us to defuse this Albanian society and thus show that they created a multiethnic society. Our resistance, our disagreement, the resolution adopted today by the Republic's parliament, and yesterday by the federal and republican governments, say we cannot agree with such processes. Albanians have an extreme goal. You can imagine Mr. Rugova, who is a Democrats, a man of peace, and wants to achieve an extreme goal. How is that possible? He can achieve that if he behaves democratically, simulates democracy, and the international community helps him, in fact, to achieve that extreme goal. We must say this openly and simply not allow what will be done to complicate the processes in Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia. I'm afraid if that happens, the rest of Serbia itself will become Kosovo. That's why we all have to get serious to prevent such negative processes. I am also afraid of this: I fear that Albanians, in seeking the most extreme goals, are creating a position for the international community to make a compromise that would also be at the expense of Serbian national and state interests. It is very dangerous and the process of agreements on the legal framework is going in that direction. I believe that the observation of the gentleman from Novi Pazar, I think, is appropriate and should be in the resolution of the non-Albanian population, because they are there next to Serbs and Roma, Muslims. Unfortunately, I have to say that some self-appointed Bosnian representative today is not helping to define an independent Kosovo, or the position of independent Kosovo proposed in the legal frameworks. You should be interested in this because it is still the Muslims, the Bosniaks who live there and who have also suffered from Albanian separatists. I think, regardless of the situation that it is and whatever some of the burning speeches that were held here, reality is something else. We need to get back to reality. While we're talking, talking, down there, our people are getting hurt, and they want us to admit it or not, their only protection is for those who are down there with them today. I was in Mushutište the other day, a village near the Wednesday parish, beneath the Char Mountain. Their only protection is KFOR militia. Like it or not. We can call them now and the occupiers, we can say all the worst, but come on, let's find a compromise now, find a way of co-operation, find influence, try to keep that people there. I think if we don't find it, that people who stayed down one day can be here in central Serbia. I criticized the last government, she worked disastrously. I must say, to be self-critical, that this government is not working enough, that we should sit down and make a strategy, because how are we going to solve Kosovo and Metohija when we don't have a strategy for the state? How to find an answer to the Kosovo-methological question when we haven't found the answer to our country's question, when we still don't know what's going to happen to this country. There are a lot of big questions, they're long-term, but what matters most is that we help the Serb community down there survive, help create conditions for those who can come back down. The key question, in addition to these strategic, global interests, is the issue of our people's existence. I fear that if we do not find an answer to the existence of the people, the daily life of that people, we may also solve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija in our favour, but there will be no more Serbs there. I forcefully reject pessimism, regardless of the difficult situation, we did not lose Kosovo. If we are serious, if we are discussing such large issues, I am sure we have a chance, a great chance to integrate Kosovo and Metohija into democratic Serbia and democratic Yugoslavia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5551	The People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5552	I would like to point out that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, under the current Constitution of our country, is the highest legislative body. The messengers are authorized to speak for the people who chose them. Therefore, it would be unacceptable for us today to adopt in this house any document that is in direct contrast to the current Republic Constitution and the interest of our people in general. I remind you that according to our Constitution, Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and that the Serb people there, as well as the rest of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia, is part of the majority people, not the national minority, as the amendment to the Hackerup text states. Serbs will not be in Kosovo a national minority and a national community. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that this is a key moment in the whole text that is skillfully being set for us in these difficult moments for our people, because if we now accept this as given in the resolution and formulation of it, that Serbs are a national minority in Kosovo, some national community that is given only 10 to 120 MPs in the representative body of the province of Kosovo and Metohija, we will never be able to correct it again in the future. As a Serb from Kosovo, from Kosovo Mitrovica, I have no moral right or any other right to vote for this. Therefore, I do not know how to defend those views from my voters, when I return to Kosovo and Metohija, nor I nor any other MP from any political party. Instead of providing multiethnicity in Kosovo and Metohija, which was presented in 1999 as the main reason for the possession of Kosovo and Metohija by international forces under Security Council Resolution 1244, a solution here is offered to us in fact by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to verify large-scale concessions on Albanian nationalists. That is why I think it is unacceptable for us here to verify as our position some amendment which we do not know who composed them or where they were written, and all in the name of the Serbian people, for which neither this assembly nor the Government of Serbia nor the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija authorised them. The text offered is our goal, which is double this one. First, to ensure the way the elections and the rules of functioning of the temporary authorities so that the interests of the Serb community are guaranteed, protected. Secondly, to achieve the legal and legitimate presence of our state authorities in the AP Kosovo and Metohija in parallel with this, and to apply our laws at least in Serb areas. Who's right, I wonder, and I ask you to give up any part of the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Kosovo and Metohija are the continent and laws and the presence of state authorities should be on the whole territory of Kosovo and Metohija. I also point out the fact offered in the text of the amendment that neither the Republic of Serbia nor the SRJ is mentioned anywhere. Isn't the intention of our opponents to use their tactics, so to speak, to translate the thirsty across the water. We do not know the whole text, no one has ever seen it as a complete document, and we are discussing the legal framework of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. With this pay phone, we've heard a lot of accusations about some secret Dayton agreements and some other documents that absolutely don't exist. Today we decide on the legal framework of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, without any of us seeing or having this legal framework in hand. This way, reading these amendments, we seem to be deluded into accepting what else in a normal debate in this congregation would never pass, regardless, I'm convinced, who did most of it. And if this were not just a party matter, I would like to point out to you already to bring the text of the Declaration on the principles of protection of the national and state interest of the SRJ on the escalation of Albanian terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija and in the Land Area of Security, which was adopted by the Federal Assembly at its session on 29 December 2000. On the contrary, the proposed amendments to Hackerup's text mention the actual state of play in Kosovo and Metohija, and they are contrary to the adopted declaration in the Federal Assembly. We should be aware, too, of the historic moment in which we are, and the fact is that the decision we need to make depends on whether we preserve the vow of Kosovo heroes or give it up on behalf of some, apparently, grave silence. And if we had to be careful, there's a lot of teaching examples. The latest example is events in Macedonia. Didn't Macedonia accept everything the international community offered her? Right now, the way things are now, and it looks like it's going to happen, it's on the verge of civil war. Or, an even better example, a Republika Srpska example, where one stranger decides on behalf of the entire Serbian people, replacing legally elected leadership and thereby questioning the Dayton Agreement. Unfortunately, Wolfgang Petrich is there, and this is Hans Hackerup. I think Cosmet is our sanctuary and we can't give it at any cost, if we want to stay as an independent state. Hackerup's predecessor Bernard Kouchner held some of his local elections in Kosovo, and I ask you, what did the Serbs get from his local elections, what did the Serbs from Peći, Đakovica, Pristina, Prizren or Kosovo Mitrovica get, have they returned to their hearths after these elections, do they create conditions for their return to their hearths? The other day in Leposavic, Mr. Dan Evers said, "Only you go out to the elections, and everything will be easy, and on the question of what will be easy, when Serbs will return and when they will be given basic rights, the right to freedom of movement, their answers were -- I don't know, we'll see, we'll think about it, etc." Has the delimitation of the Kosovo Liberation Army been carried out in the past two years? They only changed their uniform and changed their name. Instead of so-called. The Kosovo Liberation Army is now the Kosovo Protection Corps. Do you really think we can trust them to demilitarize now and who's going to get into that police force, as it stands here in the document? Finally, when will the Security Council Resolution 1244 return to the space of Kosovo and Metohija our army and police return the personnel of the border unit, the guardians of our heritage? I think so, and I'm afraid that Kushner's local Serb elections won nothing. Hans Hackerup is now offering, following the adoption of this document, general elections in Kosovo and Metohija, and I am therefore afraid that after these general elections, he will not receive ethnically clean Kosovo. For this reason, I propose and, because of this overall serious situation in which we have found ourselves, that after consultations with the parliamentary parties, a multi-party delegation is appointed to discuss on behalf of our country with the authorised representatives of the international community on the legal framework, on the implementation of the Security Council Resolution of the United Nations, which will introduce us to what we are talking about, give us documents that are being addressed and that so we are included in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5553	The word has been given by MP Tomislav Nikolic, followed by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5554	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, News, 4 May 2001 -- UNMIK spokesman Susan Manuel announced yesterday that a 50-year-old Serb was found strangled Wednesday near Kosovo Vitina. The body of a man originating in Serbia was found nine kilometers from Vitina, in the southeast of Cosmeta, Manuel said. A day earlier, on Tuesday, a 17-year-old Serb, Sasa Dodic, died of injuries also sustained in Kosovo's Vitina, where he was shot by two Albanians from a moving car. "The day after the day since KFOR came to Kosovo's territory and Metohija you can read or listen to news like this. DOS is in a pre-election campaign, all of you who have been DOS candidates for MPs have signed a statement -- we are the undersigned parliamentary candidates, who will make up the parliamentary majority, we are obliged to make the first day of the first session of the newly elected Assembly a commitment to the future government to immediately submit a programme of concrete measures to the United Nations Security Council, which would allow the consistent application of Resolution 1244 on Kosovo, preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia, guaranteeing the rights to a peaceful and secure life for all Kosovo residents and encourage its integration into the new democratic institutions of the country. We will especially insist that the issue of kidnapped and murdered persons be resolved urgently after KFOR arrives. I give these words to the MP of the DOS, who spoke in the second round. The DOS has mentioned Kosovo twice without a Metohija, which means it's not only the Cypriots saying it's about Kosovo, but the DOS also says it's about a territory called Kosovo. Today we are talking about Kosovo and Metohija, air, country, water and Serbia. Even though you've been avoiding these 100 days of this government and about 60 others before to talk about Serbia, we've come to that point. I know that this is hard for you for a number of reasons, for those of you who are worse and tell you that you are Serbs and from those you show on the outside, who, if you stay in power, will take us to the citizens of Europe in some other, third or fourth categories. If we don't have Kosovo and Metohija, we won't even have Serbia. I guess it's absolutely clear to all of us, and we weren't such adventurers to go to war against the Cypriot terrorists, those whom one of the vice-presidents of today's government called the naughty citizens of Serbia, knowing that maybe the entire Western world would come after us, but there was no other choice. Today, in a minute to twelve, we have a slight resolution on the agenda. I guarantee you that she will not bring any effect either, however mild, a resolution that determines the situation and does not offer a solution. The resolution is offered by the Serbian government, which has introduced Serbia and Yugoslavia into the world, into the world community. We are offered ministers, presidents and vice presidents who travel abroad every day. The Prime Minister doesn't go over the Thick Hill in Germany anymore, he's taking a small plane. What have we secured in three months of DOS rule? How did we manage to bring this country into the world? What's the price? Are we going to have a serious debate here to tell us exactly what you're agreeing with foreigners, except for the sale of the Serbian economy? Will you tell us exactly if this resolution is not considered at all by tomorrow, if Hans Hackerup, as it is called - the one whom DOS now attacks more than Kushner, Kushner was not allowed to help you while you were in opposition - if it is deaf and tomorrow brings the constitution in whose making you participated, we are now learning through some of its representatives, what will then be done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then what will we tell the citizens of Serbia. We couldn't do more, the Assembly passed the resolution. The thing's good, the crowd, it's getting more serious and threatening. You paid little attention to Kosovo and Metohija, no attention. How much you do in three municipalities in southern Serbia, you forget the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. What are you doing in southern Serbia? Every day, 200 drop-offs from Kosovo and Metohija go to Serbia, change tables and put on crow tables, return to Kosovo and Methya loaded with goods, 200 Marks pay a tow tax and leave, change tables again, return to Kosovo and Metohija, 60,000 marks of blood money, this country or some individual harvests of goods that go to Kosovo and Metohija Shiptari, which finance terrorism. Is that a solution? Did you commit to lift all barriers to Montenegro? Now we hear, she had to set up customs because of the smuggling that's going to Montenegro. You wanted to rip off the heads of an ex-government that was the same, only in a much less-than-mild form, doing it. Now you're telling us that there's some text that the Serbian government disagrees with. Now the Assembly has been put into motion, like in the days of previous authorities, to help you protest that text, but we don't have that text. We don't know what's going on tomorrow? Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic promised the international community a few months ago that Serbia would go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Well, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija rebelled, and then he shut up about it. But if the international community has a promise from the Prime Minister that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija will go to elections, if they have some members, representatives of Serbs who write amendments to the future constitution, tell us what you are doing? I guess there can only be one constitution in this Serbia. Everything else has to be lower acts, constitutions or dams, and that's exactly preventing some other acts that will undermine the most state acts. I hear here an MP calling himself an initiator. Yes, the government listened to just one initiator. He doesn't tell us what he's been doing for two years at the Interim Council of Kosovo, what he's accomplished during that time, except taking orders. How much money did he make working for the occupiers? Everything here needs to be brought to the wallpaper. Why is KFOR praised? Because they're driving him around Kosovo and Metohija. What other reason would be, you can't say on the one hand that KFOR is doing nothing to protect Serbs, but it does seem to protect one man, so as it is, it protects him. Everything here has to be said openly. Are the Serbs at risk or not? If most of them are at risk, they're all at risk. There are no individuals who can move freely in Kosovo and Metohija. If one Serb is strangled on the road, none of them can say he's safe. That's what this country needs to do, that's what this country needs to solve. To support this resolution, we have nothing, no other paper from the Serbian government we don't have. I ask you what will happen on Monday, what happens Sunday if Hackerup brings the constitution of Kosovo and Metohija tomorrow, what will be the reaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Don't ask me what I think about it, me, my son, the vice president of the government called it "the dogs of war." The Prime Minister today... Just talk... The president of the government mentioned "dogs" again today, you feel like dogs, you just don't stick around the dog bars, you feel like Serbs. You're fulfilling someone's orders, and you're taking care of it. If the economic situation is getting worse, if the people are getting more dissatisfied, if the situation in Kosovo and Metohija is getting worse, if the situation in southern Serbia is getting worse, if the situation in Vojvodina is getting worse, what is it? Stop it, you Jaftar. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the pay phone, addresses Milki Marinkovic. ) It is easy to exercise power in a good, rich country, in a peaceful and stable country, in the elections we all knew, whoever wins, will take over power in a very unstable country, in a very poor country, robbed. I see, they're full of criminals and robbers. (DOS emissaries, all in voice: not all of them.) Everyone's already been convicted. What on earth are you waiting for? What are you waiting for, why don't you put four or five cops in here now, and as anyone gets out of the radicals, you go to jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5555	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5556	It's the easiest thing to insult, your conscience isn't clean, your heart and soul are in pain. The neighborhood is already starting to ask you what you're doing, who you serve, who you serve? Let this resolution be adopted today. I ask you, Mr. President, that this gang that is giving me attention to the fact that there is a MP behind the pay phone to whom it was intended to challenge certain traitors here, to earn it. Let it be that this resolution will be voted and unanimously, but I know that with our heart we want to help resolve the fate of Kosovo and Metohija is not enough for you to resolve this fate of Kosovo and Metohija. You'll wait for some other orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5557	Word by MP Dragan Markovic There's no replica, people, look at the Rules of Procedure a little bit, don't let us learn who's entitled to the replica after three months. [[Momcilo Trajkovic, from place - replica]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5558	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honored Ministers, the Party of Serbian Unity from its formation to this day puts the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, as an integral part of Serbia and Yugoslavia, and the position of the Serb people in the province. Unfortunately, an adequate, wise and diplomatic response has been gone for several decades, and unfortunately we have to find out today. We have come to the situation that we at least decide about the fate of a part of Serbian territory, and to the greatest extent of the great force, which we often call the international community, although that term cannot be defined. Since 10 June 1999, when a United Nations Security Council meeting adopted a Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija and formally turned this problem into the jurisdiction of international factors, regardless of the fact that the document provides the possibility for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to co-operate in the implementation of this document. For the previous government, this was a victory, as NATO stopped the aggression that lasted 78 days. The Serbian Unity Party never said it was a victory, and the army and the police with the people took this war out on their backs and we endured the war. It wasn't victory, gentlemen. Essentially, this meant the occupation of Kosovo and the Metohija by the NATO Pact, or, as otherwise formulated, the peace forces of the United Nations. I'll just say a few words, that the former government made a mistake letting the war happen at all. First, ordinary people, and we politicians who had no insight into what the former government was doing, headed by the president of the state, thought that we were going to enter that war, that we would fight the world's greatest force because Russia was giving us support and because Russia would militaryly help the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Serbian Unity Party knew that there was nothing to help, because Russia was another country that recognised Croatia, gentlemen, and it helped us nothing when there was a war in Croatia and Bosnia, so we knew that there would be no help and there was no war in Serbia, except that they were mustached Cossacks singing on bridges across Serbia. The UN Security Council resolution, as has been carried out for two years by the international peace mission, is a legal way of losing Serbia-Yugoslavia's sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. In other words, none of the goals outlined in the resolution was achieved, at least when it comes to the position of the Serb people in the province. In the preamble to that resolution, the Security Council finds it determined, I quote, "to ensure the free and safe return of all refugees and displaced persons to their homes, condemning all acts of violence against Kosovo's population, as well as terrorist acts from either side". For not two years of implementation of Resolution 1244, around 350,000 Serbs and other non-Albanian living have left Kosovo and Metohija. More than 1,500 Serbs and other non-Albanian live were kidnapped and killed for two years. KFOR and UNMIK to this day have neither a concrete plan nor anything they do towards refugee returns or displaced persons in Cosmet. Kosovo and Metohija have become the recruiting centre of terrorism in the Balkans in two years of the UN peacekeeping force mission, i.e. the NATO Pact. This is also the result of disrespecting point 9. Resolution 1244, which says KFOR and UNMIK have an obligation to disarm all terrorists who have failed to hand over weapons, and had an obligation under Resolution 1244. We know very well that they didn't do it. The fact that KFOR and UNMIK have not done so since October 1999, when the deadline for the demilitarisation of Cosmeta is now resulting in an escalating of terrorism in southern Serbia and the north. In point 4. The resolution envisions the return of a number of Yugoslav and police troops. Not respecting these members of the Resolution, civil administrators for Cosmet, first of all Bernard Kouchner, and today Hans Hackerup, not only at any time did they not want to co-operate with the Yugoslav and Serbian authorities, but they refused everything offered. In his so-called so-called The mixed management bodies of Cosmet were selected similar Serbs, who represented neither the state nor the state authority, nor the Serbs in Cosmet. And with their participation, they legalized the authorities in which the main word had the Albanian foreign and international community. In Annex 2, point 9. The Security Council resolution is an economic development and stabilisation of the crisis in the region. Civil administrators' policy in Cosmet, and above all Kushner's, is such that we could see that they shut down Trepca and that they tried everything to economically stifle Kosovo so that Serbs would have to leave that part of Serbia and come to Serbia because they have nothing to live on, gentlemen. Although the finale of the perfided policy led by the representatives of the peacekeeping mission in this Serbian province is the provisional administration, which is set out in point 10. Resolution 1244, which says the civilian mission will provide temporary administration for Kosovo, under which people would be guaranteed basic autonomy within the SRJ, without the return of 350,000 refugees, without creating conditions for the safe movement and life of the non-Albanian population. UNMIK's administration organised local elections, and our current government did not want to veto the local elections, because Serbs did not have good conditions for the local elections. There is nothing about the multiethnicity of Kosovo and Metohija, which is highlighted and the resolution. Local self-government is an Albanian self-government. The latest act, but now not self-government but administrations of Kosovo and Metohija, should be parliamentary elections in this Serbian province. At the same time, completing the statehood element at the administrative borders of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija was the setting up of customs checkpoints and all of this should be made into one legal act that Albanians are asking for to be called the constitution, and UNMIK is proposing a legal framework for Kosovo's temporary self-government. Not entering legal terminology seems to be a game of UNMIK's administration, as the substance of the act that represents money is the final step ahead of the official secession, namely the creation of an independent Kosovo and Metohija. The rejection of all amendments given by the Serbian side confirms that it is essential to create another Albanian state in the Balkans, and then to unite in large Albania, according to Albanian representatives in Macedonia and Montenegro. The Serbian Unity Party is only one reason -- to warn the government and the people again that this is the last moment of Serbian Metohija's defence. The previous regime missed an opportunity to defend Kosovo and Metohija. The current power is on the test for the preservation of a comprehensive Serbia. I didn't mean to criticise the current government and government, but since it was already done by a member of the government, Mr. Trajkovic, I will say a few words, making sure that it is mild criticism and well-intentioned. The current government has made more mistakes. The first is that Serbia has never been more popular and has never again come to Serbia, and that we have never had less help than we have now. The Serbian Unity party has repeatedly requested that all those officials, representatives of the countries that were coming and the balancers of the guests take themselves to southern Serbia, Kosovo, to see what the situation is and what Serbs are experiencing there. Furthermore, we have also made a huge mistake, where we have been resented by the Serb people of Kosovo and Metohija, because we released Flora Brovina from prison without asking any Serb from Albanian prisons. We make one mistake, then another, that Flora Brovin is visiting all Serbian prisons to see how Albanians live in Serbian prisons. And who visited Albanian prisons where Serbs were and who asked and answered 1,300 missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. If they say it was a past, it was a year or two ago, but another question is being asked -- who visited two soldiers who were kidnapped on the Serbian country by six Serb civilians who were kidnapped in southern Serbia, gentlemen. It may have been a good intention of our government, but Albanians have not shown any moment that they want to co-operate and that they release Serbs, who are innocent in these Albanian prisons. Also, the Serbian Unity Party resented not because Javier Solana came to Serbia, because we need to co-operate with everyone, but because he didn't do anything, ladies and gentlemen. The Serbian Unity Party and I would host Javier Solana in Serbia, if he had come and said -- we will give you 30 billion, war damages for the war damage we have done to you, and go to Kosovo to tell Albanians that they are no longer killing the Serb people. Then we, gentlemen, would accept him as our guest, not at the moment to shut down the director of television and say, "The director of TV Dragan Milanovic is guilty of being killed by people who worked at RTS." It's very sad, and that's what my colleagues have already said, and I regret that it happened, but tell me where this shelter can hide the television technology show without the NATO pact radar systems finding out where it is and whether the state television has the right to not work during the war if we know that the citizens are paying a subscription, gentlemen. The Serbian Unity Party also criticised (the president-please bring an end) the amnesty of Albanians without bringing our Serbs out of prison. There's a lot I have to skip because there's not much time. Finally, I would ask the Government, or the Serbian Unity Party, to propose, since our government is now the most popular, to ask the Russians, not to come to Chernomidin, because he no longer has any function, and from Finland, to come and see, because they sent us two representatives to force us to sign Resolution 1244, which today is neither legally nor formally respected. That would be the biggest aid of those countries. Also, the Serbian Unity Party would ask the government to at least wait until the war in Kosovo and southern Serbia ceases that the RTS daily begins every major one with The Hague tribunal. Let it begin with The Hague tribunal, but if the Serbs are found guilty, then the other side must be guilty. When a trial is conducted, ladies and gentlemen, the accused, the injured and the witnesses must sit on the bench. Who in this case is blamed, who is damaged, and who are the witnesses, if we say that five Serbs -- Radovan Karadzic, Biljana Plavsic, Ratko Mladic, Krajisnik and Slobodan Milosevic -- are found guilty and on the list for The Hague tribunal. It is a collective responsibility of the Serb people, as they were elected by Serbs for many years. And wait for the Hague tribunal. We are in favour of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, but that Serbs be placed in a position like other nations. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, the SS would have asked the government not to make any more decisions without consulting the Serb people living in Kosovo and Metohija, and that people in Mitrovica, and that we no longer give them statements, as we gave them a few days ago, because UNMIK set up a checkpoint in Mitrovica, so that we can tell them - persist in your demands, and they fight KFOR in Kosovo. I don't think such support is necessary for the Serbian people. Support for the Serbian people should be such that our government holds meetings, if not in Pristina, then Mitrovica, that all those foreign delegations, which come to Serbia, take them there, and that all parties have a unique goal and leave their ideological definitions, that this unique goal is to preserve Serbia and to keep Kosovo and Metohija, and Montenegro, in the membership of Yugoslavia. That's the most disturbing goal and the most obstacle of all of us sitting here, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-04-0.u5559	Before I conclude a unique search, does the Prime Minister want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Then I conclude a single search and set a break of 15.20 hours and ask the members of the task force to meet to determine the final text of the motion for resolution. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to determine if we have the quorum to decide. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform the National Assembly that during the break, the working group that followed the debate discussed the proposals and suggestions presented in the debate on the motion for a resolution and that, on the basis of these proposals and suggestions, it prepared the consolidated text of the motion for a resolution, which was given to you. Let me read it. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expresses deep concern over the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the situation of the Serbian people and other non-Albanian communities. Two years after the international civil and military administration is being seduced, the security situation in the province is becoming increasingly difficult. The return of the exiles, which the international community has committed to by Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council, is becoming more uncertain. The life of the remaining cosmetic Serbs and members of other non-Albanian communities is exposed to complete uncertainty and daily risk. International representatives are more concerned with the adoption of rules on temporary self-government than with the security of citizens. Terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija has not only not been prevented, but has entered an even more radical phase. More and more frequent organized killings of citizens and attacks against the representatives of our country. They happen more and more often, killing representatives of more moderate political options among the cosmetic Albanians. In 2001 alone, according to data available so far, 94 people were killed (61 Albanians, 26 Serbs, 6 Roma and one Muslim), 363 (210 Albanians, 135 Serbs, 9 Roma and 9 Muslims), 29 people (25 Albanians and four Serbs) were abducted, and 91 houses (67 Serbian, 23 Albanian and one Roma) were burned. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is urging UNMIK's administration to conduct an investigation within a month to clarify the fate of all kidnapped and missing persons and to notify the results of the investigation of families of kidnapped and missing persons, as well as the entire public, not only its international but also its moral obligation. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is urging all international institutions dealing with the protection of human rights to step up their efforts to clarify the fate of 1,300 abducted and missing Serbs and members of other non-Albanian communities from Kosovo and Metohija. An additional disturbance has brought customs checkpoints to the administrative line between Kosovo and Metohija and central Serbia. This is another act that violates Resolution 1244 by UNMIK's administration in Kosovo. Citizens are self-organizing in an attempt to disable the operation of illegal customs checkpoints. The explanations that UNMIK gave our representatives are contradictory. It's about collecting taxes on sales and taxes on extra value, but it doesn't seem that way anywhere in the world. Both tax policy in Kosovo and Metohija should be conducted in agreement with Yugoslav authorities and implemented by common methods. This way, not only has a negative impact on the security situation, but it imposes multiple taxation on physical and legal persons. We give full support to citizens' resistance to these harsh procedures that violate Yugoslav customs regulations and tax regulations of the Republic of Serbia. A special problem is the creation of a "legal framework for the temporary self-government of Kosovo". The basic text, which was made in UNMIK, does not give the elemental guarantees of protecting the rights of Serbs and members of other non-Albanian communities. The international community, by Resolution 1244, took full responsibility for guaranteeing the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SR of Yugoslavia and its application as a whole. That is why we ask that the United Nations take urgent concrete measures to fully implement this resolution, and above all to ensure the security and equality of all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, as a basic prerequisite for the return of exiles and the achievement of their fundamental human rights. It is not acceptable to adopt any "legal framework" for the establishment of so-called "legal framework". Autonomy, which is a liability at point 10. Resolutions, nor to consider any elections in Kosovo and Metohija, without having met all obligations at point 9. Resolutions, and in particular the obligations set out in points (a) to (d), which relate to the full demilitarisation of the so-called The KLA and other armed groups, as well as the establishment of a safe environment so that exiled persons can return to their homes in conditions of secure public security and order. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia requires all bodies, bodies and representatives of the international community to strictly adhere to UN Security Council Resolutions 1244, and in particular to the working group for the creation of the "Legal Frameworks for the Temporary Self-Government of Kosovo" to adopt amendments to the Serbian sides, which ensure the maintenance of multiethnic Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia, guaranteeing the rights of national communities and the construction of a provisional system of consensual democracy, in which they institutionally guard the differences between national and ethnic communities and guarantee their rights and special interests. The National Assembly considers human rights violations unacceptable, the majorisation process and the creation of state attributes in Kosovo and Metohija. In Belgrade, 4 May 2001. I ask the MPs to vote. For 191 no one with abstention voted 6, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the position of the Serb people and members of other non-Albanian communities. Before I conclude this session, I remind you that on Tuesday we will continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, starting at 10.00 hours. [[Applause]]
